ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12563	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Bajram Šehovic. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the finance ministry, and Natasa Kovacevic, assistant finance minister. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: –PROGRAMME OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLACES OF THE REPUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVE TASASES (sumption in detail) The previous working day was held by the debate in particular at 6 p.m., by way of an amendment to Article 17 tabled by MP Nikola Lazic, and the Government and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, while the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. People's MP Milan Veselinovic came forward, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak as a National MP from Novi Pazar and the President of the New Market City Assembly. I refer to Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, you know that two days ago, or at the weekend, there was a serious incident in Novi Pazar. I ask the authorities or the Government of the Republic of Serbia - what will they do to further halt such undesirable political incidents and, above all, bloodshed in Novi Pazar? You know that for a long time, two political options, Sulejman Ugljanin and Rasim Ljajic, have their own uncleared affairs or political conflicts that are passed on to the citizens of Novi Pazar. Almost no election process took place in Novi Pazar and old Raška space without any incident ending either severe injuries or death, or fighting. We who live in Novi Pazar, both Serbs and Muslims, after the last elections, or at the local level, have formed a coalition of the Single Serb List and SDP-Rasim Ljajic for Novi Pazar. From that day forward, we refer to the coalition where both Serbs and Muslims rule together, felt in every place and place, and in football games, at all sports courts, at any gatherings, whether cultural events, weddings, celebrations, and in these past six months, the citizens rested in Novi Pazar. However, again someone needs to replace the fight and make an incident that has upset the citizens of Novi Pazar, who has upset Serbian citizens. I appeal from this place as the president of the New Pazar City Assembly to the authority, above all, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, do everything to detect and expose the culprits of these unsavourable events and the inspirers of these unsavourable events, and to once and for all take a breath to the citizens of New Pazar and to stop these conflicts. We conclude there simply that the Serbian government, both in the previous term and in this summary, manipulates citizens of Novi Pazar for petty political points, i.e. from these two parties that I mentioned. If something is not done under the law, normally incidents will be caused, and these incidents continue, and there is a possibility of going through much more difficult incidents, including those I mentioned, with severe consequences in those conflicts. Once again, I call upon the authorities and my fellow citizens in Novi Pazar to preserve peace, and the competent authorities to act by law and take all measures to stand in the way of such conflicts once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12565	Does anyone else report from the MPs for breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12566	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, I wanted in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Mr. Milan Vesenović has made an event or situation that is happening in Novi Pazar in the last two or three days, but for the real truth, I do not dispute what Mr. Vesenović mentioned, but the order of steps is very important for people to understand what happens in Novi Pazar when this scenario ends. First of all, it's not a conflict between SDP and SDA. Since six months ago, Sandzak's Democratic Party of Mr. Rasim Ljajic and the Serb list of five or six parties representing the Serbian Corps in the space of Novi Pazar are in power in Novi Pazar. All six months of no problems so far, and that's the first time in ten years when citizens felt that they could function normally. You know, by 2000, the economy flourished in Novi Pazar, whether it was legal or not, in a gray zone or not, but it kept all those textiles and other businesses in Novi Pazar, like the weather, and it was tolerated in front of state authorities, and that was used by people from all over Serbia, and it was useful for all citizens. Since 2000, since the arrival of Sulejman Ugljanin and SDA in power, the entire economy in Novi Pazar and in that wider region has collapsed, precisely because Sulejman Ugljanin has always, in one way, tried violently to maintain the position of his government, constantly playing the game - be at odds and rule. This is the culmination of attempts to reverse the situation of power in Novi Pazar. You know that until a month ago, Suleiman Ugljanin tried and with weapons to defend the government in Sjenica, although it was formed in the meantime by a majority council group to take over, people held weapons there for almost a month and kept the building of the assembly. They took over documentation from local communities, kidnapped it overnight, at five o'clock in the morning, amongst themselves the people arguing. For this event, as if people were watching cartoons, as if they were watching King Arthur -- with ladders, with stangs, Suleiman Ugljanin led the crowd of people who had totally demolled this building where they were and the headquarters of the SDA party until they conquered power. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) They are also given time to move out of the City Council officially. They were three days before we took control of ourselves made a deal, an annex for four years next, to hold and control those rooms, and not just those rooms. The municipal administration works in four places, four locations, because there's not enough space. At five-six locations of municipal institutions, the premises were settled as a party, and this is municipal property and they use it. They're just trying to force themselves to keep those rooms. (President: more than three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, if I could just say a few more words to round up what I wanted to say and I won't talk anymore. (President: Please really respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I just wanted you to know it wasn't a party conflict. The City Council's decision, which has existed since a month ago, has been officially notified to both the MUP institutions and sent a request from the SDA to move out of those premises, even two days before that they entered the premises with the police and waited for the takeover of the authorities to take over the dossier. Why did they go by force? Why do they have such destructive intentions, let the M.O.P. question it. (President: five minutes. People's MP, please finish. The Rules of Procedure shall apply to all Members of Parliament. Just one more word. Okay. The MAP played a key thing in terms of protecting people who were inside, I just wish they knew that, because inside they were saved lives, which were literally for the shooting or prepared for the lynch. Thank you and forgive me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12567	The word has an MP Milan Avramović. He wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to inform the citizens of Serbia and your MPs, my colleagues, in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, how Mission Eulex works on KIM. I gave this as a priority going out for this payphone, since this was about the weekend, more specifically for January 16th and 17th. We know that the local elections held in Serbia have been held simultaneously in both Kosovo and Metohija and are parallel to so-called. The Cypriot authorities have obstructed these elections and that these elected representatives, the legal representatives of the Serbian people in these areas, have been in trouble to function, both from the very beginning and to the day of today. Because of this problem imposed on them by the Cypriot authorities, the additional problem that has now arisen is the problem of Mission Eulex, which further makes it difficult to function and work in its municipalities. So I'm going to give a concrete example and a very important accusation of the work of Eulex and the work of the KIM Ministry. The president of the municipality of Strpce, Zvonko Mihajlovic, when he became president after the local elections, put a ramp in front of the Bezovica resort weekend. The reason for this was to stop, i.e. preventing wild and gray construction on the territory of the municipality of Strpce, Albanian separatists and terrorists. The second ramp was set in front of the Brezovica Sports Centre, which was set up by the Institute for Environmental Protection and they charge parking for all visitors of tourists who are there, only for the time being by the Cypriot terrorists, which was otherwise a practice back in the last ten years. The permit to place the ramp was granted from the US KFOR, when they were explained that only wooden assembly houses could be built on the territory of the National Park, not how the Shiparis have done so so far - villas with pools, fountains, streams, etc. Also, for every permit they must seek, the Shipari and the citizens of Serbia downstairs, from the municipality of Strpce, which now has both the Serbian seal and the memorandum, on which the Republic of Serbia stands. The previous government did not use this, it used the seal of Unmik to remind you, and it called for the laws of the non-existent state of KIM. Since then, as this seal and memo came into operation, problems arise. The problem culminated on January 16, then on January 17th, when members of the so-called Special units of Kosovo, known as "Rossa", visited first one to the teeth of 15 members, and then another point in which Serbs were watching and guarding the ramp, so that construction materials of solid composition were not transferred to the weekend zone. They were interested in who set up that ramp, what it serves, and who they represent on someone else's land, i.e. in their country. Then they started threatening to kill them and stuff. Imagine, to the teeth of armed 15 terrorists harassing legally elected organs at KIM. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, this is really important. I'll take another half minute. I'm really sorry, so I don't hear from you again. Serbians were invited to Eulex because the atmosphere was tense. The Eulexes members showed up and went to the video camera to record the event, but one of the "Rosse" members approached and threatened with a gun to a EULEX member not to record and to get lost from that place. Imagine what happened now? (President: Four minutes. Here I am, sorry. It is interesting that the Eulexa members accept the order of the terrorist, shut down the camera, get in the car and leave the place, where Serb harassment continues on to those two checkpoints. Members of the "Rosse" then go to the ski centre and threaten the same methods to the Serbs who charged for the parking. After a certain time, they manage to intimidate the Serbs so much that they follow the removal of the ramp, which was passed by law. (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. Here, I'm done, one more sentence. Serbs have been made aware of whose territory they are located and that they are no longer allowed to charge for parking and put on any ramps. The same tour by members of "Rosse" followed on January 17th. Minister Bogdanovic has been informed of these incidents and has promised to react urgently, but there is nothing for now. The people of Strpec live in great fear these days. I am now asking a question in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. (President: Time five minutes. I'm sorry. What reactions will the authorities have to this terrorist legal appearance if our government and our ministry don't respond to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12569	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12570	Thank you, esteemed chairman. In accordance with Articles 225 and 226, I am asking the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirk Cvetkovic - did a member of his government, Sulejman Ugljanin, have the authority to enter state institutions with his supporters? Can other members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they are dissatisfied with the decisions of some authorities of local self-government, take justice into their own hands and be above the law? For information, especially fellow Members of Parliament, but also citizens of the Republic of Serbia, let me remind you that this is not really about the conflict of two political organisations. This is not a conflict of two Bosniak political parties, how many of them are trying to present the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is about a man's conflict with everyone. Namely, a single man, and his name is Suleiman Ugljanin, he's a remethyling factor for the last few years in Sandzak. It's a man who's an actor, who's the cause and generator of all possible crises and all the incident situations. It's just, after everything that's been going on in the last year, after the disastrous policy he's led, the Sandzak citizens from all the municipalities in Sandzak, above all, from Novi Pazar to Prijepolje, Sjenica and Novi Varosha, Pryboja, showed what they think of Sulejman Ugljanin's politics, showed what they think of this man and how he rules. He's a political loser, he's experienced a political fiasco where it's being solved, and that's just the only election. So, at no cost should the government defend itself in this way. There are places where they can seek their rights, those places are called courts and we in the SDP just want to respect the institutions of the system. At least what we want, and I think it's the least the citizens of the Republic of Serbia want someone, in this case the minister without portfolio, is trying to put a member of the government above the law. It's something that only leads to incidents, something that leads to a bad situation in these municipalities, an environment that doesn't serve us at all, that can't possibly attract someone who wants to invest and invest in those parts of Serbia. So, once again, I call on the authorities and institutions to react and do their job, and Mr Mirko Cvetkovic to let his ministers, individuals in the government of the Republic of Serbia, reason not to do what no one should do, and especially not the minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12571	National MP Bajram Omeragic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12572	We are once again witnessing the abuse of this local - level assembly speaker. When you go to the polls and say you'll be hiring in the New Market, when you replace Sulejman Ugljanin, in a month 20,000 unemployed. It's pre-election promises. Since you haven't hired 20,000, you still have a problem firing and seducing fear in Novi Pazar that all living employees will be fired, let alone bring in the famous foreign investments you promised. This, gentlemen, which was Friday night, is about the next one. The Bosniak list has a leased space in the House of Culture of Novi Pazar, has rented rooms and it lasts more than eight years, and the entire public knows it in Novi Pazar and in the whole of Sandzak. There's a contract and there's a dispute in court. This is where we listen to people plead for the rule of law, but they send people in black-dressed, who aren't called cops, they're not representatives of the MUP. Imagine, they went to law enforcement at eleven o'clock Friday night. Supposedly the police are asleep, the prosecutor is asleep, all the citizens are asleep, so black-trained people will go inside and enforce the law. The dispute stands in court, it's about two legal persons' contracts. One coalition, like a legal person, and you have a House of Culture. Let's wait for the verdict, who's right to terminate that contract, as you say is harmful to the municipality of Novi Pazar, or to the House of Culture, will bring the verdict, the one who has been illegally moved into that area and where the problem is. Mr. Ugljanin was not at the head of any column, but at the invitation of the Chief of Interior in New Pazar, after a gathering Saturday, in a coalition in the Democratic Action party, organized elections for new leaderships in the branches and people came to bring material into their rooms, there they found closed doors, people closed from our administration. People knocked on the door to see what was going on. The crowd has begun to gather, the head of the MUP calls Mr. Ugljanin as head of the Bosniak List and says - at the door of your coalition there are citizens, there will be a conflict. Mr. Ugljanin said he would call, as on Friday when the first gathering was, he called the citizens and the citizens split up. Mr. Ugljanin came, called for peace, the citizens split up, but he couldn't stop the citizens from fighting at the coalition's staircase and that's where it came from. Therefore, we need to tell the truth. And let me warn you one more thing. Representatives of the MUP, two representatives of the MUP, were in the premises of the Bosniak List and there are records, these days they will also announce it by the judicial authorities who threw the tables and who attacked the representatives of the Bosniak List.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12573	National MP Munir Poturak wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are referring, if the word is already received on the basis of Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12574	I'm not gonna abuse a pay phone and I'm not gonna answer again, but I'm not really gonna let two truths be told here right now. I would also ask the chairman, if possible, that after this report by the MUP in Novi Pazar, the Security Committee will be convened to invite the representatives of the MUP, and the Minister of Police and Mr Suleiman Ugljanin, to read the report on the spot, because yesterday I was from one to three at the MUP, I know exactly what happened, and I know exactly what happened three days ago. The whole scenario was, who was it that allowed himself the possibility that with the cries of "Allah's Ecber" he would lead people on a collapsing march towards those rooms? Where is the consciousness of a man who plays the role of a minister here in the government?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12575	People's MP, you didn't list a member of the Rules of Procedure you're calling for to be injured either. National MP Bajram Omeragic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I remind all MPs that we are obliged to respect the procedure and provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the right to receive the word to be spoken of as a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12576	Article 100. Here he tries to disrupt the reputation of this National Assembly and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I want to say one thing. The public of Serbia and the judicial authorities will hopefully respond in time and determine whether there is a lease agreement for these premises. What is not said here - who has been in those rooms so far, on the basis of which contract and whether there is a dispute in court? I ask the entire National Assembly and the general public - who can enforce the laws in this country? The assistance of the police, as we know, always comes after a final verdict in some process. The verdict requires assistance and the police intervene. How can you get the tenant out of the room? Here, thank God, there are a lot of lawyers, it's known that there's a dispute between two legal entities that have a contract. Why won't the gentlemen wait for a verdict? What's the matter? In the rule of law, the court makes a verdict, asks for assistance if someone doesn't want to execute the verdict, and where is the dispute? Therefore, gentlemen, in a democratic and legally regulated society and state, laws must be respected. And the law says -- you have to wait for the verdict, when you get a verdict, you're unhappy with the verdict, you complain about the verdict; you have a verdict, whoever's in that space, he won't come out, you're looking for police assistance based on a judicial verdict, it's leaving space, and I don't see where the cause of this anxiety is. The reason for anxiety is, gentlemen, you have to hire twenty-seven thousand unemployed in the New Market. You've been given the authority to hire, and now this suits you because you've got a civilian rush. Every day there's a staircase in the municipality of Novi Pazar a lot, because people ask you -- you get power, we want to get a job. We've been having a fight since we were hired. I urge you, as a coalition partner in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to respect the laws of this country, to respect the judicial authorities, to bring them, on the basis of a court-led dispute, a judicial verdict, to let Eko Duljević, our lawyer who leads the dispute in the name of our coalition, with your attorney, be found in court, to conduct the dispute. I don't see why I'm so nervous. For that shouting I don't think there's any need, Mr. Ugljanin isn't prone to that kind of shouting. Mr. Ugljanin came to the room at the invitation of the head of the MUP, invited him, since it was the premises of the Bosniak List, that as head of the list it affected those gathered to differ. He did it. When he came, the people split up, the MUP went in and there was nothing. Unfortunately, instead of the court solving this problem (President: three minutes and 30 seconds). ..and if we respect the rule of law, it would not be possible for citizens to get hurt there, to fight without any need. The Bosniak list never came into a situation to disobey the final verdict of any court. She'll respect her in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12577	People's MP, there's no damage to article 100. The 100th defines the application of wording during the session and, at the request of the MP, to speak of injury to the procedure. You can see by looking at the stenogram that each of the Members of the People, who asked for a word, a word and got it, is like you. National MP Meho Omerovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12578	A violation of the Rules of Procedure, and dignity, and an untrue speech, and all that can be brought under something that violates the reputation of this high house. Mr. Omeragic, this is not about what someone promised in the election campaign and what the election campaign was, as much as anyone who won the mandate, who does or doesn't exercise power. This is about something that hasn't been recorded yet. This is about abuse of the office of minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, something that is unacceptable. When any Serbian citizen wants to take the law into his own hands, he puts himself above the law. There is no one more own than the citizens of Serbia, who have elected us to the Serbian parliament, to decide on the political responsibility of some we have chosen, whether or not we wanted, by will or by will, with honesty or not, for ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. When this person, acting as minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, gives himself the right to lead 200, 300 or maybe just five people in a solution to something called a state institution. The home of culture in Novi Pazar, the home of culture in any municipality in Serbia, is a state institution. The home of culture and rooms some have used in this same home of culture are the rooms they have received from the decisions of the authorities. The authorities, after the contract lease expired, canceled whoever used them so far, ordered him to leave them, this one didn't want to do it. It is a legal-judicial dispute that will last. Unlike you, we really want the court to rule, not the minister, just because he's a minister or what he wants, or that he thinks he can take the law and force into his own hands. Not only can he be a much stronger minister, but he is a minister with only two MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, there is a classic manipulation and attempt to intimidate people in the municipality by a member in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Did the Chief of Police call him, why would he call him? You know, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentarians, the citizens of Serbia, all day long the talks at the New Market police station led by the mayor of Novi Pazar Mirsad Djerlek, and five times called on the same man Bajram Omeragic claims to have called him police chief to calm the situation. Five times he was called all day to sit down, to talk, to agree, to keep these rooms locked up by the police until the final court's decision is made. Mr. Ugljanin refused to do so, and when what happened and when the representatives of the MUP really went into those rooms and locked them up and kept the keys to himself, then Mr. Ugljanin, congratulatingly, at some point in the night, according to orders from some in Belgrade, announced that he had calmed down the situation and asked the police to come and lock those rooms. That's not true. Article 225 gives me the right to ask another question from competent institutions. I am asking the Director of the Government Office for Media Cooperation (President: three minutes and 30 seconds). I'm looking for an answer - why in the night, someone from the Government of Serbia's press office, called some reporters around midnight and asked them to call Mr. Ugljanin and urgently take a statement from him. It's a violation of the law, it's unacceptable. The SDP will continue to seek justice, endure and seek the culprits responsible for this situation. We do not want the question of the New Market, that the issue of any city in Sandzak is constantly being raised as a remethylative topic (President: Four minutes). ) as a disturbing topic, as a topic that burdens citizens and the public of Serbia all the time. We want that, and hopefully, we have shown it by our political action, not only here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also by our party president Rasim Ljajic doing the most responsible functions in the country. If someone thinks that the SDP, just because it's tolerated, just because it respects the law, a party that can be understood and can be done with it whatever it wants, then that ugly one is wrong, especially those who think that with two MPs they can blackmail, not only Mirko Cvetkovic... (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as this Parliament and that the hostages of their policies, their destructive policies, are all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12579	National MP, no breach of article 104. People's MPs who want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure are data as they know it, and they themselves answer for the truthfulness of that information. National MP Bajram Omeragic, right to replication on the basis of Article 101. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12580	We forget one thing about this discussion, which is, on Friday night in New Market, nothing happened until the black people came to enforce the law in the middle of the night, when all the citizens were asleep. That's when this story begins. If people hadn't come in black, nothing would have happened and we wouldn't be having this debate today, but the people in the New Market court would have reached a verdict and we would have talked here today, whether someone wanted to execute the verdict or not. Therefore, whether the coalition list for Sandzak has two MPs or more, it is a matter and a matter of choice. We had ministers in the government when they didn't have any councilors and no MPs anywhere in the country, so they were ministers. So, let's not go back to who he is when he's a minister and who's an MP and who's how many MPs. As a member of the Bosniak List, whose premises are on Friday at 12:00 p.m., or from 10.30 to 12.00 p.m. attack, against the law, I call on the citizens of Novi Pazar to calm down their passions, I call on our coalition partners to complete this discussion and let the court do its job, that citizens of Novi Pazar conclude from all this that it is not good to follow anyone who calls for conflict, and I can pass on to this parliament and what Mr. Ugljanin told the media that they will always respond to the call of the official authorities, and that was the MUP in Novi Pazar. As an MP, I can say one more thing, Mr. Jasmine Duštinac, deputy head of the MUP, myself, as an MP and a member of the Security Committee, called on Saturday to discuss all this. I asked him to make an official note of what I told him, as a MP from that work. I said the following - Mr. Duštinac, you have an official contract that's in the rooms, you have who entered the premises unauthorized and you have a dispute in court. Wait for the judgment of the court, let the court judge, let him enter into the rooms of him who is authorized to do so, and nothing else. I've also invited members of the coalition and all citizens to calm down their passions and to have the court and the state take over their work. The Bosniak list considers that there is no other authority in the country that can apply force, no people in black, in colour, in blue, in pink, I can't, the constitution is regulated who can enforce force. It's regulated by laws when they can enforce force. You can't go in with people in black at half past 12. Who are you? He said we're some people from some service nobody knows anything about. They go inside, they trap the premises and they say, "Now you go to court and unblock the area." I'm saying there's no reason to discuss the rule of law like this. They've got our lawyers, they've got your lawyers, there's a court of law. If the state considers, the Ministry of Justice, the district court, the municipal court in Novi Pazar, they will resolve it and there will be no dispute. That's where it all ends. (President: Time. ) I call on citizens to abstain, MPs, coalition colleagues to complete this debate civilisedly and to let the authorities of this country, if we believe in democracy and the rule of law, do their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12581	The word has the People's MP Meso Omerovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12582	A 100 - nation MP is obliged to speak the truth. Mr. Omeragic, I would ask you not to use this pay phone to scare the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with some words, some people in black, some price, etc. To be clear, every institution in the state of Serbia, is that the House of Culture in Novi Pazar, is that a municipality in Koserić, is that any institution that has to do with a state whose people's MPs have their own security. That security is the security that protects that facility and people who are employed by some who would want to do something that's illegal in one way or another. These people, as they're dressed, are in black, yellow, blue, green, quite irrelevant, but these are the people who did their job. They were security workers at the House of Culture and prevented a member of the government, Sulejman Ugljanin, from entering the premises of the House of Culture in Novi Pazar with his supporters. It's all true, ladies and gentlemen, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They wanted to enter those rooms because the city administration had brought them a solution recently that they had no longer the right to use the rent of these same rooms and that they had several months to move out of those rooms. Something else is indicative, Mr. Omeragic. How come they're just calling you that night and that day? You're saying the Chief of Police called Suleyman Ugljanin, so you're saying that as an MP and a member of the Security Committee, someone else or someone else called you. Why didn't anyone call me as a member of the Security Committee? Why hasn't Mr Milan Veselinović, president of SO Novi Pazar called? It's very interesting. They just called you to solve the problem. Why do you think? The problem is that whoever makes the fire seems to be putting in front of those who need to put out that fire. That's the problem you've created. You lit the fire, and then you volunteered, among the first, to put out that same fire. Mr. Omeragic, this policy, this transparent philosophy of yours, how you can manipulate and rule has long been read in Sandzak, and in Belgrade, the Republic of Serbia, I hope. You can't cheat on that people anymore. You can't fool the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Please stay away from the Sandzak Democratic Party. This is not about the Sandzak Democratic Party conflict and the Party for Democratic Action. This is about one man's conflict, and apparently one or two MPs standing behind him and everyone else. The worst part about a man's conflict against state institutions is that tragedy is greater, the man is a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a disgrace to this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12583	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bajro Omeragic, the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure is only obtained if the statements of all other MPs who have reported themselves to be talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure have been exhausted and on the basis of Article. 100th and 101st. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12584	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure and it is obvious that it is necessary that we get information from the MUP about what was going on in Novi Pazar on Saturday night. As LDP MP, I would like to remind myself that political leaders have and bear responsibility for the behaviour of their supporters, especially in a situation where there is a possibility of violence. Political leaders, in this case the Bosniak parties in Novi Pazar, must be held accountable. It doesn't matter who the offices belong to. The basic fact is that one man was wounded, that there was a conflict, and we must condemn what is happening here and call as the parliament of the Republic of Serbia the citizens of Novi Pazar to abstention. Also, I would like to address the ruling coalition MPs, notably DS MPs, President Boris Tadic, to warn them that they are also somewhat responsible for what is happening in Novi Pazar and Sandzak, because they have done nothing to solve the problems that existed and still exist in Novi Pazar and Sandzak, which were your pre-election promises. On the contrary, these problems are only generated, and they only increase from day to day. The problems of the new Pazar, or Sandzak cannot be solved by two top Bosniak leaders being together in the Serbian government, working together correctly in the Serbian government, ruling together Serbia without being able to behave properly in Novi Pazar and Sandzak at all. You need to take responsibility for your ministers' behavior. You need to take responsibility for everything the police didn't obviously do in New Market. Minister Dacic should finally start solving problems in Novi Pazar and Sandzak, not that the police, i.e. the MUP, or functions that are beneficial to him in inter-party trades, or meeting some political ambitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12585	The word is from MP Bajro Omeragic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12586	Article 225. Prior to that, a colleague said that these people are black, colorful or in some other color, by that logic any institution in the Republic of Serbia can hire an agency, they have some colourful color, and they can enter unauthorized. Does anyone have a lease agreement, does they have a dispute, does they have something, goes in there, takes up rooms and says, "Go and complain to the MUP." As for the call made to Minister Ugljanin and to me, that call came and it read like this, thank God, the phones are being listened, we can get a report from the service, sure. So you'll see that we're coming to talk, we're in the rooms of the first man in the city of Novi Pazar, Mr. Jerlek. If you think it is not appropriate for the Chief of the Interior and Deputy to speak to Mr. Jerlek as President of the municipality of Novi Pazar, you know that Mr. Ugljanin and I do not have any function in the city, and that we are leaders of the Bosniak List, people thought that we should, on the one hand, also talk to the President, the Mayor of the city of Novi Pazar, Gjerlek. They had a conversation with him. They came to talk to us, to compromise, to leave the premises at four o'clock and get the matter back to its former state. That was the deal. The deal was played, by saying that from the agreement that was read -- you entered the premises that were leased by the official contract, we will not leave, and you say that the MUP takes the keys and that the Sandzak List Coalition is closed, that a political institution that participates in the work of the government will no longer act politically until the court dispute is resolved. It is therefore not the only business space he has managed, or has been authorised by the House of Culture to conclude contracts. There were other business premises they rented. You have official notes from the commissioner, with Deputy Chief of the Ministry of Culture in Novi Pazar, and you can officially get from them what we have announced to them, and that none of the officials went to the House of Culture, or the Bosniak List, until a call came from the MUP officials to come, that Ugljanin influences as the head of the list of citizens to disintegrate. Please, for the sake of the citizens of New Market and for the sake of calming passion, to simply release this debate, we have explained everything we have, let the court bring this solution. In front of the Bosniak list, we will honor everything the court has brought.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12587	National MP Esad Djudjevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. So the Messenger of the people Meho Omerovic and the Messenger of the people Munir Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12588	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want you to comply with the article. In 225 and 226 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, under one, I ask the police minister to announce to the public who is responsible for the incidents and riots in Novi Pazar. Secondly, I ask Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic to explain to us whether we, members of the Bosniak national community in the Republic of Serbia, have the right to develop our minority national institutions, because this is actually about the attack on three key minority national institutions of the Bosniak national minority in the Republic of Serbia. It is primarily the seat of the Bosniak List, as a minority political organisation, it is an attack on the Sandzak newspaper, a list funded by the Ministry of Culture, as the only minority list of Bosniak minorities and it is an attack on the Bosniak national council. So this is it, I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia and the prime minister to protect the institutions of the Bosniak national minority in this Republic. Third, a key issue, I ask this country, or Boris Tadic, as president of the Republic of Serbia, to protect the right of members of the Bosniak national community to develop their institutions and their speciality. Just a brief reminder, the law on national councils of national minorities, which predicts that the state, local self-government or other levels of government are required to provide for free the institutions of a certain minority right to the premises. We are here attending the reverse case that certain political groups that exercise power in Novi Pazar, which is the party of Mr Ljajic and the SRS, are attacking institutions that are subject to legally valid contracts. So, let me briefly say, we are asking the police minister to announce to the public who is responsible for the incidents in Novi Pazar, from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to say whether we Bosniaks in this country have the right to develop our institutions and from the president of the state, Boris Tadic, the answer whether we, members of the Bosniak national community, have the right and protection of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12589	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12590	Of course I want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure because there is now a classic replacement of thesis. Mr. Judjevic is 55 minutes late for a session of the Republika Srpska Assembly and then tells us about some endangered rights of Bosniaks in the state of Serbia, the story of institutions, about the national councils of Bosniaks, so he is trying to distract Serbian citizens from the key topic. The key issue is why, for which reason, on whose orders and whether, in agreement with someone, the minister without a portfolio, therefore a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia, leads his supporters in entering state institutions. That's the key question, that's what upsets people, that's what disturbs the citizens of Novi Pazar, how one minister takes matters into his own hands, how one minister tries to be both a force, and a power, and a beating and all that no man should do, and especially not a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So don't run away from the topic why the president of your party commits criminal acts, why he abuses his position, don't run away from that topic in the yard so-called. the national laws of the Bosniaks. Leave you Bosniaks, nor anyone in this country to Serbia has the right to enter state institutions. In particular, it has no right to work as a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia, no matter how much he would have wanted it. The other thing, Mr. Omeragic, I really don't know, is what you said if someone told you when you came back to the seat what you said. Mr. Omeragic, it is incorrect that you said that representatives of state institutions cannot hire security to provide these facilities. True, they can do so in accordance with the law, if the agency or firm is registered, if it has a license, all of them can do so and do so by dozens and hundreds of organisations, state institutions throughout Serbia, so why not also the House of Culture. Mr. Omeragic, did you inform the MPs and citizens of Serbia that in December, when you with your private security, I don't mean you personally, but the representatives of your party, because you lost power in Sjenica, you hired private security to guard this building, SO Sjenica, from the fact that the representatives of the government would not enter it. Answer that question. Were these people in the Shadow engaged according to the law, were they, as you say, dressed in black and what they were doing? But, Mr. Omeragic, there's one thing that you've said here from this pay phone that is truly devastating, disturbing, because you said, "Thank God, the phones are listening." Mr. Omeragic, I am also a member of the Security Committee, as you are, and I would like you to explain to the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose phones are being tapped, who is listening, who is listening to them, why they are listening to them, and whose warrant is listening to them, Mr. Omeragic. You've said something very dangerous, and I think that the MPs, primarily the citizens of Serbia, deserve your notice on this disturbing information that many phones are listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12591	The People's Messenger, Munir Poturak, has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12592	I don't know which way to apologize because I said I wouldn't go out anymore, but it's abnormal to listen to the truth and for that reason I say, I wish the Security Committee had the opportunity and the MPs to attend, so they could see that report and on the spot that they knew from people who had led the whole situation and that they had prevented any more serious consequences, in which the lives of people who were inside the premises, authorized by the City Council, people with an official takeover document. In the end, you know, those rooms aren't complete in the possession of SDA and Suleiman Ugljanin. It's a cinema balcony that they've closed all the way to people and citizens. Part of that balcony, there's a room locked up where they keep their paperwork. There was no entry into that room. So security, the authorized face didn't even get into those rooms where they keep people's SDA records. So here are all the twisted stories and I wouldn't like this lame story, because I'm just sorry that the ugly picture of my city is being transmitted, and these are just sequences that will pass quickly. There are far more valuable, more quality and better people than there are with hundreds of people sometimes in our city. Mr. Esad Djudjevic said here about these rooms to usurp Bosniak rights. Mr. Judjevic has taken over the premises of the national council and is now writing in those rooms the Centre for Bosniak Studies. It's a private NGO. Who took over? Djudjevic owns the NGO. Did he take his right to bring them to the government and to other institutions now? Are the Sandzak Newspaper a Bosniak information note? That's what one party reads. The fact that they have written "Sandzak newspaper" or what they are called "The Bosniak List", that is the abuse of minority rights, the rights of national minorities and all Bosniaks in that area, in the way they are represented and in the way they present themselves, and in the way they present facts, or lies here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12593	National MP, the President of the National Assembly may request that the Committee be convened only in the event that there is special evidence of difficulty in calling the Committee's session. We don't have any information about that right now. Therefore, the Security Committee may be called upon in accordance with the members of the Rules of Procedure which prescribe the way in which the sitting is called, and only if, for any reason I do not believe personally, there is difficulty in calling, at that time, in accordance with the general powers laid down in Article 27, the President of the National Assembly may request a session, and until then I think that Members of Parliament, members of the Committee, will agree on whether the sitting, what agenda and everything else they are responsible for will be. National MP Bajram Omeragic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1), followed by MP Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12594	Article 225. Just because I said the service might have a recording of our conversation doesn't mean they do. That's the first thing. In the press, at meetings of various institutions, we hear that some crime was discovered by following their conversations for months. Second of all, was security involved in the Shadow? There was a security detail in Sedica the moment someone didn't have a majority, and he wanted to make most of it through security. As soon as most were made in the Shadow, there was no more security, nor was there a reason. The Bosniak List coalition and parties that made up the majority left other parties in the Sjenica today exercise power. There's no problem. So I use this pay phone to point out once again that this kind of conduct in the National Assembly does not serve the honor of the ruling coalition. We from the Bosniak List, I have to say, we have a lot of energy and, if you like, we can continue this debate by tonight. However, you cannot discuss something, which is that at 22.30 p.m. you entered the premises of the Bosniak List without a warrant from any state authority. Can state institutions hire private firms, agencies? I can. Today there are thousands of companies in Serbia, but it is clear what they can do. If what you say is true, give me a member of the law where it stands that the private agency implements the court's decisions. Can the agency implement a decision that has not been made by the court? That's the question here. When the court in Novi Pazar makes its decision, the Bosniak List will respect that decision. You're running a dispute in court. I don't know why so much anxiety and so much mistrust in the judicial organs. You swore here: reform of the judiciary, passing judicial laws, we passed new laws that would regulate it. What's with all the doubt about the judicial authorities now? Don't you believe in democracy? What's this about? Gentlemen, let the court deliver a verdict, enter the premises, and there's no problem. Please, for the sake of the citizens of New Market and for the dignity of this assembly, let's stop. Everything we had, we said. Neither the agency can enter without judgment, nor can anyone emigrate without judgment. When the verdict comes, the Bosniak List will move out and there will be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12595	People's MP, you haven't asked questions directly to me, but the information you've been presenting for the second time during your presentation requires that I give you information that will probably be of use to you in your work. The listening and monitoring are governed by the laws that we, the MPs in the National Assembly, and the sublegal acts adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministries, as well as by the decision of the judicial institutions that are required to listen to or monitor Serbian citizens. These are things that, I mean, don't deserve questions between us. It's something we know because it's about provisions and members of both human rights and security. Control over how the law is applied and the sublegal act relating to listening and monitoring also has a Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament, so I ask that, in the use of the right to impose a violation of the Rules of Procedure, we do not mislead the citizens of Serbia and we do not bring uncertainty where it is not, because we are in charge of not having it. National MP Esad Djudjevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12596	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I would just like to say four things very briefly, given the discussion of my colleagues from the DS. First, I was at the identification this morning, so you can check the document here at the National Assembly. The other thing is, does someone commit a crime determines the court. The third thing, the Centre for Bosniak Studies, is the only publishing house of the Bosniak national community in this country, with the certification of the Ministry of Education on the issue of textbooks, which affirm and promote the speciality of the Bosniak national community in this country and they share rooms with the Bosniak National Greater and with the journal "Bosnječka Word". The fourth thing, "Sandzačka novine", again I say, whose premises are also a matter of attacks these days by groups of armed people, are the only magazine that finances this government, or the Ministry of Culture, which, in accordance with the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, as part of our country's international commitment, finances this government, because it is just promoting the right of Bosniaks in this country to cultivate, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, its speciality, its national identity and its culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12597	National MP Kenan Hajdarevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100. National MP Esad Djudjevic used his right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12598	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting again on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure and I repeat my request for the M.O.P. to provide us with information on the events in New Market on Saturday. I would like to point out that we attended a relatively civilized conversation here between representatives of the two Bosniak parties. Instead of having this conversation on Thursday, Friday, in Novi Pazar, we have today, after the conflict, after the wound, in Belgrade, or in the Serbian Parliament, or in Belgrade, in the Serbian government, and in Novi Pazar, we have conflicts in Sandzak. This continues to show the thesis that the LDP has repeatedly reiterated that the Sandzak needs and a necessary shift of generations of political leaders in Bosniak parties. Also, both parties participate in the government of the Republic of Serbia, together with the Serbian Parliament, participate in the decommissioning of all institutions in the Sandzak municipalities, while using citizens only as a voting machine downstairs, offering no perspective for their better lives. Also, there is a party state and the consequences of this party state are just the constant and permanent conflicts in the Sandzak and Novi Pazar areas. Once again, I call on President Boris Tadic to finally start solving the accumulated problems in the Sandzak area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12599	National MP Esad Juddjevic, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12600	Dear Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I wish in accordance with Article. In 225 and 226, I would like to ask the representatives of the state to make possible the work of the Bosniak List in their premises regulated by a legally valid contract. Mr. Ugljanin was in his cabinet that night as the bearer of the Bosniak List. The second thing, I ask the state authorities to allow members of the Sanjak newspaper to enter, which right now the MUP is making it impossible for them to enter their premises, and end the 50th anniversary number of the Sandzak newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12601	The word is by MP Sladjan Mijaljević, a debate in particular on Article 17, on which the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. The SRS parliamentary group is available for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12602	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear colleagues, although the chairman has made an effort to restore confidence in modern technologies that we have had several times to hear from the position and opposition, listen and listen, as a citizen of Serbia's country, I am losing hope in these modern technologies. Looks like modern technology instead of introducing us into the 21st century, you're bringing us back to a Middle Ages. But let me go back to the amendment. The SRS absolutely supports the amendment by Mr. Nikola Lazic, who speaks about it or takes away the right of the government of the Republic of Serbia to tax churches and traditional religious communities. This situation caused by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by its absolutely unconscious work, and its unconsciousness is seen in the order of certain laws, forming a certain agenda and passing laws before the Assembly, to say slightly mixed and mixed, according to Mr Krasic, upside down. First we got a budget here with 41 days late, to study these 900 pages of material in a few days, to write about 200-300 amendments and to defend it for a while. That's when we were put before the final act. In the presentations of colleagues and opposition, including some from the ruling coalition, we have seen how much this law, or budget, is one font wish or a well of desire. Only after the budget law came the following laws that should meet the wishes of certain ministries, especially the Deputy Prime Minister. They are absolutely contrary to their announcements in pre-election campaigns that they will be socially responsible, that they will increase pensions, that they will cut taxes, that they will open thousands, hundreds of thousands of jobs, that we need to adopt laws that will literally take both the little money and the savings from the citizens of Serbia and individual institutions and fill that well of wishes. This is about taxation of churches and religious communities. I don't remember very well, but it seems to me from history that for the last time the churches and traditional religious communities were taxed in the time of the dahlia, the dahlias that deviated themselves from the top government in Istanbul, and here seduced some of the laws and some of their terrors. After 200 years, something like this happens to us. The government of the Republic of Serbia is making such an ambience, it tends to set itself above the Serbian Parliament. The government of the Republic of Serbia carries, carried by force and power with 126, 127, 128 votes, trying to make the highest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly, a voting machine. We had cases that confirmed it right in the Budget Law, where some MPs of the ruling coalition voted against themselves. I really can't figure it out. People could at least preserve their dignity so much that they would withdraw the amendments they had submitted. They went so far on the hands of the government, courting individual ministers, thugs, powerful men sitting there in Germany and voting against themselves. That's really amazing. I do not see that the President of the Assembly, by his many responsibilities, is trying to help these people restore the strength of their character, to preserve their 'I' and to act in some way in their own opinion and in their own way, to the education and expertise they have, but because of the petty, small political interests of certain powers, they vote on their own wishes. As I said, we support absolutely this amendment. What winds are blowing, from the Serbian government and here in the Assembly, are really strange tendencies and creating a negative environment. This way, it shows that the government is not professional, that the government couldn't predict all revenues and expenditures in time, that the government has mixed up the law and that now we need to save the state, and in fact we're going to save the government. Those with this budget that they've barely made it there until October, November. There'll be budget rebalances again. We are absolutely against going back in time, so that churches and traditional religious communities are forced into new harras. I support the amendment, and we will vote in favour of Mr. Nikola Lazic's DSS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12603	The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. The time available for the Manjin parliamentary group is 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12604	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Union of Duke Hungarians will support Mr Nikola Lazic's amendment, and that is why I have asked for a word in particular. I just want to briefly explain why we're going to vote on this amendment in the voting day, why we think he's good. First of all, I would like to remind you that about last March, when it was planned for the previous National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the same amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, we Members of the SVM have proposed the same amendment. The essence of this amendment and the essence of our amendment at the time was to exempt churches and traditional religious communities from paying for republican administrative fees. We all know what happened then. The then government fell, and all the bill proposals that were in the procedure were withdrawn. Now that, after the adoption of the new budget, these following financial laws, as well as this law that we are discussing, are on the agenda, we have not proposed the same amendment, because unfortunately we are aware that because of the current financial crisis and the other problems it is raising behind us and in our country, the Government is unable to accept this amendment. However, we hope to find a solution in the near future. A few more arguments in favour of this amendment. The Law on Churches and Religious Communities, Article 30, mentions that there is the possibility of legal regulation, exemption of churches and religious communities from mandatory payment of republican administrative fees. So there's a legal possibility. On the other hand, I would also like to remind you that unfortunately the churches and the religious communities were in trouble and had to pay huge fees in the application of the Law on the return of church property, because they themselves were forced to prove that their property had been taken away. So, once again, I would like to conclude and stress that because of all this, because we have proposed a similar amendment and that we agree and believe that this amendment is good, SVM MPs will support this amendment in the voting day. This way I wanted to support and appeal to all of you, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will hear in the next few months about this problem and find an adequate solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12605	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that finally the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Dragutinovic, is in charge of the debate under these amendments today, to remind ourselves of some amendments and some of the issues that we had for Mrs Dragutinovic, which we could not get adequate answers from ministers who had been here these previous days just to satisfy the form, so that we would not make a matter of the Rules of Procedure. That is why I expect Mrs Dragutinovic to be actively involved in communication with the MPs, in order to make the most of the debate in detail on all these laws, which are actually necessary and not only follow-up, but essential laws to implement the Republic of Serbia's budget, which, with a significant overrun, was adopted at the end of last year, on 30 December. We have also spoken and reminded that only the adoption of a budget without these laws, which actually fills the budget, and there is no point, except that the Government of the Republic of Serbia could say formally - has brought the budget by the end of the year for the following year. A lot of amendments have been submitted to all these laws, all seven laws, and when it comes to the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Republic Taxes, SRS MPs have made their position on this law by proposing that all members of this bill be deleted, i.e. that our position is that this law should not be passed because this law essentially means an increase in administrative fees. You nod your head that's not so. That's what your colleagues were doing sitting there for you. But, you know, it's enough to be written and read the bill of this law and the existing law on administrative fees and then it's obvious that it is the essence of the adoption of this law. Our view is that it is unacceptable to shift the burden of this economic crisis to the citizens of Serbia. The state needs to be more responsible. The government of the Republic of Serbia should have done and presented to the National Assembly and the public a programme that would make it easier for us to go through this crisis that has affected the whole world. Although the president of the state and Deputy Prime Minister Djelic told us two or three months ago that the crisis would bypass Serbia, in fact that this crisis would be stimulating and would bring foreign investors into Serbia. Of course, it was clear then that it was completely pointless. Afterwards, they stopped talking about it. I also remind you that the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, made one statement two months ago that a co-ordination team was formed, or as it is already called, which should establish some criteria for overcoming, or for some easier going through the crisis and said that he was among others a member of the team and governor of the National Bank. On the same day, the governor of the National Bank answered the question to the press that he doesn't even know that there is a team, and he doesn't know that he's a member of that team. All of this is to remind the citizens of Serbia, and also to you, Madam Minister, that we would draw your attention that we will not allow any inability and irresponsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be transferred to this economic crisis. You are here as the Government of the Republic of Serbia to find ways for citizens of Serbia to get through this as painlessly as possible. Instead, you're increasing administrative fees. You, as a resolute minister, are threatening to increase VAT. Your associate, Mr. Ilic, the secretary of state, also made such a statement after you. So, it's something that Serbian citizens should obviously expect, and it won't be good, because it will only confirm that you don't care about Serbian citizens, that you are not socially responsible, but a socially irresponsible government, and that you want Serbia's citizens to actually be the ones to bear the burden of all these problems that have hit us. You, Mrs Dragutinovic, have remained in debt to the MPs, I personally asked some very important questions on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. I'll remind you now. You said, actually, it's your responsibility, but you promised at the end of last year that I would get those answers very soon. Your colleagues, as well as Mr. Ilic, said last week that your answers were prepared and directed to the Assembly. It would be good to send someone from Nemina to King Milan along the way to look for where they were pushed, where they turned out, lost answers to parliamentary questions, that's what we asked not as a parliamentary question, but as a notice. One refers to a budget inspection at Belgrade Airport. You said the job would be completed on December 31st, and today is January 19th. It was enough days to inform the MPs about how right we were and where we were right, or perhaps we weren't, when we talked about Bojan Krisht, about the famous salary of 20,000 euros. Who knows what else it is, if there was malfeasance and machination in Belgrade's airport business. It may not be any, but that's why we insisted that the budget inspection go there. You said she was on her way and the job would be done, I repeat, by the end of last year. Please, as long as it takes a debate on these bill proposals to get that report so we can talk about it. You also said that, at the request of Minister Sutanovac, you had sent a financial or budgetary inspection to the Ministry of Defence, the military, and we are looking for a report on this in view of the statements made by Ponoš, who is no longer in office, to see if everything has been done in accordance with the regulations. What we are more interested in these days is the people's MPs, and after I asked for this as a parliamentary question -- we are asking you most urgently to tell us in what budget items you envisioned 1,250m euros, a million for some snitch who would eventually betray Ratko Mladic and 250,000, according to your assessment, for a significantly cheaper head of Goran Hadzic? Mr. Rasim Ljajic, meanwhile, said that even some snitch who would eventually show up not to worry - that the state would even pay a tax on that amount that someone would get. Since the draft budget has passed here and we have discussed it and we have not seen anything so planned in the budget, we would like to know that we would inform the citizens of Serbia how the Serbian government spends their money. So, it's riverside by your colleagues, I think that Mr Oliver Dulic or any of the other ministers, I don't know because they've been fighting in the afternoon and afternoon, that the answer is prepared and that it should arrive at the Assembly, so please speed up the arrival of that response to the MPs -- to see if you've really predicted that money somewhere, or maybe you'll single out that five million dollars that you're going to get for extradition, possibly, don't give God, Ratko Mladic from the American authorities. Of course, this includes the question of who got the money for Slobodan Milosevic's head and who got the money for Radovan Karadzic's head, because both of them as well as Mladic were blackmailed in the same way. When it comes to Article 18. The bill that Zoran Krasic submitted to the amendment is important to say that this Article 18 refers to a member of the 19th basic law. It is this member who is in favour of our claim that this law has not been amended for the reasons that you have stated in your reasoning, especially as reasons for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure - that the essence is only an increase in administrative fees. You said in your reasons for passing laws by emergency procedure - that the non-administering of this law would make it impossible to agree on the subject of a tax liability, with files and actions from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia and the organisations for which the tax is paid, especially in the light of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, which have moved on to the Republic of Serbia as a state of followers of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro, as well as the competences governed by the rules laid down after the last amendments and the addition of the law, which would have adverse consequences in terms of the existence, i.e. the level of the tax liability for the files and actions of the corresponding complexity, and therefore at the level of the funds paid tax. In view of the fact that the tax is paid in order to meet the costs of the work of the authorities caused by the requirements of the interested parties, the adoption of an emergency law could result in adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. Since this law, if this is the essence of what you wrote as an explanation, it should have been brought much earlier, right after the collapse of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. How has this tax been charged so far, since these jobs have been done in the meantime? If there is any damage to the work of the organs and organizations, then it is necessary to tell us what is the damage, what is the damage and who is responsible for the damage. If that wasn't the case, then there's no need to pass this law this way. Article 19, which was regulated in the draft law of Article 18, for which counterpart Krasic asked to be deleted, refers to an act which is not subject to tax. I'm going to point out now that Serbian citizens know what they're paying a tax, how much they pay, and we don't have to convince them from here that this is an increase in tax or not, because all citizens know that, in addition to what's supposed to be a republican administrative tax, they have to pay taxes in local self-government, which citizens understand, because that tax is paid to someone who does a job for them, and the republican administrative tax is charged in such a way as to charge the budget, because you don't do anything as a republican body, but local self-government does this as a trusted job. You say, what all fees are now paid for - for the files and actions in the assembly process, i.e. the correction of voting lists, as well as the lists for running, this has never been paid, and this is regulated by other law; for the files and actions for which the exemption from payment is specifically prescribed by tariffs, so this has never been paid; for the confirmation of the lawfulness or enforcement that has been placed on the administrative act, and this has never been paid, but here is 15 minutes. All of this you listed in article 18 has already been regulated by some other regulations and so far the tax has not been paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12607	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12608	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to article 19. It's a bill of tax. It's linked to other amendments submitted by the SRS. So, as Honorable counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic pointed out, we are in principle against this law which in times of financial crisis increases the fees for our citizens, because, as the bill states, I quote exactly from the reasoning -- a rise in certain taxis is proposed. However, the Proposer rejects our amendments to this set of budget accompanying laws, mostly by reason - directly or indirectly - to bring the amendment to a decline in budget revenues. However, such concern about budget revenues is mildly unprincipled. When the loss due to the adoption of our amendments to the tax or excise law is compared with the enormous amount produced by an unreasonable decision on the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement, which, at the recognition of the authorities themselves, will produce a fall in budget revenues of 260m euros, which is a minimum estimate, then we come to such a conclusion, on the contrary - an explanation of the fall in budget revenues was needed in the draft customs tariff laws or by indicating at least one proposal following the budgetary laws. What will our companies benefit from the unilateral application of this harmful agreement with the EU? We're not asking that the promoter convince us of what we already know. For example, trade monopolies, such as Delta, will benefit from a unilateral application of a harmful agreement with the EU. We know the answer - they will? It would be useful for the motionor to explain the laws that our industrial firms, therefore, in a sector that creates something and does not deal with trade and resales, will benefit from such a harmful contract? Just look at the provisions of this so-called Transition Trade Agreement or annex that follow this agreement and it will be clear that our industrial firms will not benefit from the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement. For example, Annex 1a of the Transitional Agreement provides that the customs rates for industrial products will be reduced in the next order. On the date of entry into force of this Agreement, customs duties will be reduced to 70% of the basic customs duty. The first of January of the first year following the entry into force of this agreement, customs rates will drop to 40% of the basic customs duty. On the first January of the second year following the entry into force of this Agreement, the customs rates will be abolished. So, within two years, all customs duties in the industrial sector will be abolished. We also come to the same conclusion when it comes to the fact that industrial production in decline, even in 2007, has failed to reach the level of 1998. At the same time, even domestic economists warn that the real GDP growth rate will be around 0.5%, not 3.5%. This should also be added to the fact that the deficit in trade with Germany, as the main industrial, export and economic force in the EU, with which we are reportedly going to compete on our market after the unilateral implementation of the Transition Agreement, has increased by 20% in the first ten months of 2008. When we talk about applying the Transition Agreement and increasing taxis and excises that are essentially following this unreasonable decision, we need to pay attention to the following analysis and events from a few days ago. US agency Stratford analysts, which is otherwise an agency that envisioned the exact date of the start of US aggression on Iraq in early November 2008, estimated that Serbia, along with the Baltic states, such as Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia, would top the list of countries that will be hit by the financial crisis in 2009. Unfortunately, it showed that it was an accurate analysis. In the capital of Latvia Rigi 14.1.2009, major social unrest caused by the economic crisis occurred. There were about 20,000 people on the demonstrations, which is a huge number for such a small country. Protesters clashed with police, over 100 people were arrested, dozens were injured and hospitalized. The police used rubber bullets and tear gas. Otherwise, these conflicts are not caused by a gas crisis, because Latvia has been paying a market price for Russian gas for a long time, not stealing gas like Ukraine, but precisely by the fact that the annual foreign debt had reached $33.5 billion at the end of 2007, and that Latvia was forced to raise its tax rates precisely because of such a glorified IMF. A similar situation occurred several days ago in Sofia, ahead of the Bulgarian parliament, when major clashes occurred between protesters and police. Bulgaria's foreign debt has already reached $33 billion, 880m by the end of 2007. Pay attention, everything happens in the capitals of the EU member states, and the external debt was comparable to ours a year ago. Social riots took place on 16 January this year in the capital of Lithuania, around 150 people were arrested, and rubber bullets were also used. According to Mr Vladislav Sotirovic, it was protested right in Willjnus, which was otherwise declared Europe's cultural capital this year. The reasons were again external debt, which had already reached 27 billion dollars in late 2007, as well as the implementation of the IMF programme, which led to an increase in VAT, other taxes, monthly taxes on all cars in the country, excise gas. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, this amendment has not been proposed to justify the government's foreign debt due to the loss of excise or taxi income. For example, with the IMF, to cover the deficit that occurred due to the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement. On the contrary, we are against new borrowings, especially with such a compromised institution as the IMF. We are against the stand-by arrangement with the IMF, because, as we heard, Nobel laureate Stiglic said during his visit to our country that there is little benefit from the conditions imposed by the IMF when concluding such arrangements. We are also critical of the conditions imposed by the World Bank. The next example confirms the vindication of our position. This is exactly how the IMF, which allegedly cares about the stability of Serbia and our citizens, has suggested that the administration of the city of Belgrade lift subsidies for all municipal services, especially water, heating and transport. No one has denied it so far, although it has been published at a press conference since 4.12.2008. So, citizens need to know that the IMF is not a well-intentioned institution, but the worst trustee, a poorly-covered lender, who will destroy all their social rights, only for the sake of paying off the debt at all costs and further borrowing. This shows exactly examples of Baltic states. As regards the terms of the World Bank, professor of international political economy at Oxford University and director of the global economic governance programme, Mr Woods believes that the World Bank is too insensitive for the needs of poor members and that the cost of credit due to the existing structure of the Bank's board is borne solely by the debtor countries or in the practice of the poorest country. I must note that such a way of working by the World Bank and the IMF reminds an overwhelming reminder of the work of our government. As well as the World Bank, the cost of unilateral implementation of the 260m-euro Transition Agreement, I repeat, is a minimum estimate, precisely through the increase in taxis we are discussing today and a set of budget laws, will be put on the backs of the poorest citizens of Serbia. Thus, our government fully implements the principle of the IMF and the World Bank on the fight against social giving and subsidies, all for helping rich oligarchs. Of course, it also supports the governor, who told 16.1. that he was not completely satisfied with the budget, as it would have been better if there had been more cuts in wages and pensions. It's the real IMF policy, it's the policy that led to economic collapse in Latvia and Lithuania. It's that policy that's been spreading propaganda for years about so-called. Baltic tigers and the fastest growth of GDP in the EU. But reality isn't something like that. The government should not follow the IMF's devastating guidelines, because that is exactly what the Baltic states have been doing. If it did not follow those wasteful guidelines, it would not have allowed such a bad and inappropriate proposal of the tax law to be found in the procedure, similar to that of the excises we have discussed, even if it was for the sake of caring for the poorest layers of citizens and the social responsibility that so much is being talked about. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment should be accepted for the following reasons. The fees, according to the Public Finance textbook used right at the Belgrade Faculty of Economics, are against compensation for the services done by state authorities. Therefore, there are no legitimate economic reasons for the introduction of larger taxis at the moment, because, according to the economic theory, the economic services of the state authorities must not be subject to taxi payments. It is clear that the main reason for the increase in taxis and excise duties is essentially to cover losses caused by an unreasonable decision on unilateral application of the Transition Agreement. It is also clear that all of this is done in the framework of the guidelines of a compromised institution such as the IMF, for which a brave and far-sighted politician, such as Ugo Chaves, believes it should be abolished. You know, if it is not already withdrawn such a harmful and unreasonable decision on the application of the Transition Agreement, which should be financed by our citizens through larger excise duties and taxis, it is at least a little easier to adopt amendments to the laws we are considering today, and additional budget revenues in this difficult situation should be sought in those who benefit most from this harmful economic policy, both domestic monopolies and foreign banks and foreign businesses, which are huge profits from our country, and not from the poorest citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12609	Is anyone else answering the word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic text of Article 22 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes reads as follows: In the solution, correction, document or writing issued without payment of a fee, the purpose of issuing and the basis of the exemption from payment of a fee must be marked. Completion of the text of Article 22; In Article 20. The draft law amending the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes has provided that the decision, document, document or written in Article 1 may only be used for the purpose for which it has been issued. The amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, whose authorised representative I am, reads as Article 20. The bill is deleted. The Government has not accepted the proposed amendment of the SRS, with the reason that the amendment provides for, as explained by the amendment and in response to the Government, an increase in the Republic's administrative tax, and that the document, the document and the written form of the issue can only be used for the purpose for which it is issued and that it cannot be used for any other purpose, for which the Republic's administrative tax is paid. The government's absolute response is meaningful, and if only an amendment is interpreted, isolated and independent from other amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, the government's response and the government's decision not to accept the amendment would be acceptable. The point of the amendment is that, in principle, with other SRS amendments submitted, an increase in the Republic's administrative fees is avoided by this draft law. Why? With mandatory savings, the main reason is that we in the SRS believe that the increase in taxes and other public taxes is not in fact the rescue of the state from the emerging financial crisis, which you, Mrs Dragutinovic, should and I know for sure that you know better, because the rescue is in the reduction of taxes and other public taxes and the introduction of public works, which means easing the emerging economic and financial crisis. The budget deficit planned is about 50 billion dinars. What if the budget revenues are not realised? With the expected crisis, the deficit will be even bigger. Of course, that's what I'm counting on -- what if there's no realisation and the projected public revenue from increasing the Republic's administrative fees, what if the expenditures are bigger than the budget's planned? Then, with the coming crisis, we will have a deficit in the budget that will be extremely worrying. How can the state, again, underline that you know better, get out of this existing crisis? What is the measure of the state to overcome this crisis? Not to increase administrative fees and other taxes and public taxes, but to reduce unnecessary costs, e.g. for the salaries of certain faces. We have already discussed Bojan Krisht here, not to mention, I now mention, the monthly salary of Ceda Petrovic, general director of the Business Bank of Belgrade, amounting to 17,000 euros and other people. To reduce or eliminate the costs of the team at all levels, especially the costs of the team being made in restaurants and cafes. To prevent corruption, financial embezzlement, money laundering through the supply of goods, the execution of works, the provision of services and others. To end the financing of many NGOs, not all but many. Recently, several NGOs, including NGOs led by Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, proposed to the Republic Assembly that the Assembly make a decision and set the date, July 11th, as a day of memory of genocide committed by Serbs in Srebrenica. Imagine, Serbs committed genocide in Srebrenica. It is indisputable that there is a war crime in Srebrenica, that many claim that around 1,800 and some people, civilians and others were killed, but the genocide certainly did not exist. We have a number of very wealthy people in Serbia. It's a great honor for those who come to a couple, big couples in accordance with the law, respecting the rules of this country. What about those who came to the money in an illegal way, like corruption? Lately, political corruption and political crime have been very current. There's a mob, i.e. The link between high-ranking civil servants and officials on the one hand, and on the other hand, people who are just coming in an illegal way to an enormous amount of money. How the state can expect the existence of a balance between public income and public expenditure when our economy is in a major crisis, when there is no industrial production or it is at a minimum level, when workers remain jobless, when agriculture is in a major crisis, when young people have no perspective. If that weren't the case, unfortunately, you wouldn't already be thinking in the Government of the Republic of Serbia if you were bringing budget rebalances. Of course we're in a general crisis, with one maximum savings. It is not easy for you in the government either, if you think honestly or in favour of the citizens of Serbia, but you should certainly work in accordance with the law, without crime and corruption, rationally, without the political mafia and all will be easier. This is about the principled position of the SRS to fully abolish the payment of the administrative fee and to increase it by means of this bill. You say that our legislation should be adapted to EU standards and in this respect when it comes to this bill and the Republic of administrative fees. Why, when the EU already has certain funds to help Serbia, when it envisions 200m euros for the preservation of democracy in Serbia, so with Javier Solana's May 23rd executive order, instead of focusing on social contributions, to help citizens, to preserve democracy, it benefits from breaking the SRS and financial assistance of a new party, of which the money largely finance the work of their local committees. These people who run this party are now one of the wealthier people, who came to the money in an illegal way, not by work. There is no need to increase the republican administrative fees, according to the government, it increases the legal security of citizens, which is completely pointless. Why? Because citizens have nothing to pay from. On your need to pass this bill, many MPs have spoken of a trade agreement, not to repeat it. I hope that, Madam Minister, in the discussions of the MPs of the SRS, you may not be in the whole of each discussion in particular, but in certain discussions you will draw something out as useful, if not now, to accept both this amendment and some other amendment, then in the next period that you will have in mind, when submitting the draft laws on amendments and additions to this and other laws. With regard to the budget deficits, regarding the absence of a balance between public income and public expenditure, the "stand-by" arrangement or credit to the beginning, the term you in the Serbian government avoid, I hear and the governor of the NBS Radovan Jelasic avoid mentioning, speak about the arrangement, not about a 15-month loan, so that it can be used, approved by the IMF Executive Board on Friday, 16 January, to maintain monetary, fiscal, financial and macroeconomic stability in the country. That is more reason, if you are already counting on these 402.5m euros, not to introduce an increase in the Republic's administrative fees and other taxes. Not only that, new loans from the IMF, through the urgent financial mechanism that you are thinking about in the government, were used by other countries, Hungary, Ukraine, Belarus, Iceland, and you believe that it should benefit Serbia at the moment, and from these money that you are already planning, from 1.4 to 1.5 billion euros, it is necessary to free the citizens from these subsequent taxes. If the correct information is that you are planning to expand the existing stand-by arrangement, how much will Serbia be burdened by these foreign debts? We in the SRS are opposed to additional borrowing, because citizens now have nothing to pay back from, let alone in the future our descendants to whom we do not leave a bright or very good perspective. It's very difficult to live in Serbia. Belgrade is more expensive than London. The expenses for the Belgrade apartment are higher than the expenses for the Moscow apartment. The head of a ruling parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament says the money, 402.5m euros, can be used, but does not have to. The formula is correct. The government would not in the next step, plan or consider a new arrangement of approximately 1.5 billion euros. Finally, it would be useful to adopt this bill with amendments to the SRS, i.e. logic and the conclusion that this bill is not passed, not because the state does not need money. The state needs money in this situation and an ongoing crisis. This bill should not be passed because citizens have nothing to pay for. The rescue from the crisis is in the reduction of taxes and other taxes, and it is not in their increase, with public works, it may be a way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12611	The word has a folk MP, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the assembly. Time is available for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12612	It is also enough for two minutes, Mr. Novakovic, to give an example of the absurdity of this amendment and the addition of Article 22. Mr. MP, Col. Milovan Radovanovic, from his legal point of view, has explained this well, and I will tell you from practice, Madam Minister, probably because you would have more sides in this amendment and supplement law, because I don't know if you have this experience, but I will now give you this through an example of a candidate for a MP or a councilman in the municipal assembly. If you have added a new position to article 22, which is completely unnecessary, so a colleague of Radovanovic is asking to delete what you are proposing, then you should know that on this document that someone, which is the most often authorised representative, let's say when it comes to running for a political party or a group of citizens, goes to the congregation office of the municipality to draw confidence about citizenship. With the authority it receives, the authorized face of the political party is taking out for each individual, so I, as a good soul would say, had multiple roles as a courier of Perica, because one who ran for some of the functions of the town of Kragujevac hated going to the counter of the City Assembly. I guess that's humiliating. I don't. As a finely educated person, I've gone to anyone who asks for me and brought confidence in citizenship, handed it over, so let them run, but for the next election we'll see how these candidates pass. That belief says nicely that it is only for the purpose of running for the president of the state, for the MP, for the councilman, and it is impossible for someone else to use it for other purposes. This is what any of the people who have ever run for any post and that it has been released, because otherwise the prescribed fee, or the amount to be paid for such a document, would be a shortage in the register, in the counter of the city administration or in the municipality. Clearly, the document stands, and someone asks you -- why are you asking for it, if it's someone who's authorized, say, in front of a political party, in which case it's free to pay a fee on that document, then it's known. It is quite possible that this happened to us in Kragujevac, because we have 87 candidates for the council, although now we have ten parliamentary mandates won by our committee list, but this is now at senior court posts, we will see, as we would say, we will make sure that it goes to the end, but when it comes to our authorised representative, it is usually the longtime president of the Kragujevac Radicals, Mr. Zikic, who has that authority, not the official in the City Assembly, Mrs. Sofia to ask whether you are the one or if he sends any of his associates. He takes assurances of citizenship and writes there that it is for the purpose of running for a councilman in the City Assembly. Therefore, it is absolutely unnecessary to put this as an addendum, i.e. as the second position of Article 22, which is why you need to accept the amendment, only to say that if you did not want to have a larger number of sentences or a larger number of sides, because the amendment itself for some 80 members of Radete, which we will talk about later, is precisely in favour of you not having to repeat in such a way that you do not have to amend and supplement the law and to list all these tariffs, because you had a second objective, to increase the costs of Serbian citizens for what they need most. A few days ago, I set an example of an employee lady in the Serbian Parliament who works on jobs that mean to us during a time when we have a break to drink coffee, tea or juice, which had to be for her four-member family, for herself, wife and two children to single out four thousand dinars in order to obtain the necessary documents, i.e. to pay the state administrative fees to get passports for the first time in their lives. Thank you. I'm sorry, colleague Novakovic, I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12613	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21 of this Law, the law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which is to be deleted. As my previous colleagues so far, the SRS has tried to correct this law through amendments to this law, but through an explanation that the government has responded to our amendments probably that the government has no hearing and does not want, as the SRS has imagined, to fix this law, not to do so. Through many of the situations that have been happening to us in the previous period, the cause and consequences of the whole situation and this budget, which we have brought to parliament recently, we believe that the causes and consequences of the citizens of Serbia, as this law also proves, are the easiest government to look back on the funding that is missing in the budget. It's the easiest thing for citizens to raise taxes and taxes. This has proved to be true in many situations. This budget and this situation in the Republic are caused by many. One of the causes is irregular and irregular privatisation, which was done in the Republic. We all know that in 2009 complete privatisation in the Republic of Serbia should be circled. Somewhere around 570 companies are listed, about, for sale. The privatisation should be rounded up, where 300 companies are already expected to go bankrupt. What does that mean? Three hundred companies that have tried to sell at auctions so far, i.e. At auctions and failed, they'll probably go bankrupt. As a result of this bankruptcy, the 300 companies are still hugely unemployed in the country, i.e. A large number of people and workers who will lose their jobs, i.e. taxpayers who also fill the budget, while on the other hand the state has done nothing about development, as far as employment is concerned, etc. When we watch and turn on public service and media, every day when we read the newspaper, media employment is high, various trainings are organised, various employment fairs are organised, etc., while in practice it is quite different. We still have one more reason, these are commercial chambers that are glued to the economy, only in such a way that the businessmen are, i.e. The companies are paying for the membership of these chambers, until the chambers on the other hand have done nothing to develop the economy, for the potential of our economy, for what economic chambers should do. The third reason and cause of these consequences are, of course, agriculture and agrarian. In agriculture and agrarian, MPs of the SRS talked a lot about it. On one case, my municipality where the agricultural land law is being implemented. I can tell you that the budget is damaged, there is an argumentable document that the president of the municipality and former agriculture minister Milosavljevic signed, which is two and a half million euros damaged the budget from the republican province to the municipal one. I have talked about this on many occasions, but it is obvious that it is the deal of the then Minister of Agriculture, and now for trade, Mr Milosavljevic, because he concluded on the same day an extrajudicial alignment on the use of 1,244 hectares of agricultural land PIC "Becej". On the other hand, in the second catastrian municipality of Srbobran, where local self-government did not want to participate in such a criminal operation as was done in the Becej municipality, the country was issued for 25,000 dinars, while in Vienna 11,000 hectares, this is only for 1,000 hectares, if you have listened carefully and well, for 11,000 hectares, an extra-judicial alignment signed by the minister for 8,000 dinars. Immediately in two three days, even the price of the drought has been reduced to 5,400 dinars. So when you take and add up everything that has been done in the municipality of Vienna, two and a half million euros have been damaged by the budget of the Republic, the province and local self-government. When you look at a situation like this, which certainly isn't just in the municipality of Vienna, but in many municipalities, so when you add up all that sum, our budget would look quite different now than you represent it and what Mrs. Minister has put forward a budget proposal. The reason for this crisis, i.e. the financial crisis that will come and what has come to the Republic of Serbia is certainly still a frequent election. We remember very well when the elections are discussed, then the government, the ministers are taking off in Serbia, the travel economy is being restored, infrastructure is being built, etc. In many places even even, which is the cost, machines are brought in to show up after elections and when the elections pass the machines are driven, and in municipalities or republics where the infrastructure was built, it was built so much that it could not be financially covered. That's why right now, Madam Minister, the Republic owes 39 billion to the passengers. The reason is frequent elections, don't get it wrong, the SRS isn't against the election, but frequent elections are a great cost and imposition of state, republics, citizens of Serbia, which you impose when elections are under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12615	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta. Here you go, Mr. Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, it's a good thing that you came, given that a few days we had flying ministers, ministers who couldn't simply answer many questions, started with Mr. Shijakovic, Minister of Faith. He, believe me, a poor man, I believe that he is still baptized and can't understand what hit him here in the assembly, because he himself didn't know what to say to the MPs, the man wasn't in matter, and so bad laws and executions for the citizens of Serbia that it was simply amazing. Your task, Madam Minister, is for these laws to pass, under the orders of Brussels and Washington, such as the past laws that have been particularly set on fire for the eyes of Serbia's citizens, when it comes to courts and prosecutors' seats in Serbia. Believe that Serbia's citizens are talking about it the most day-to-day and are simply not clear to them, they are absolutely certain that most of the MPs from the ruling coalition didn't think so, and that they simply had to vote those laws. Namely, these laws, which are now on the agenda, which you must adopt, all amendments submitted by the opposition, primarily by the MPs of the SRS, are mainly about the removal of members. First of all, we should delete these laws and not come here in a congregation procedure, especially when it is a unilateral application of the trade agreement. This unilateral application of the trade agreement is directly reflected in our agriculture, on a branch which in some ways is the only one that has the option of having a surplus in the budget, to help the state as much as possible. Madam Minister, I remember very well, when there was a budget rebalance, when one moment you answered the word and you said literally like this, "No one will give up the subsidy." Madam Minister, and then, on that occasion I told you about the pay phone, I think it's at least humiliating for our farmer. Our farmers, Madam Minister, have received subsidies per hectare with a huge delay, you know very well. By 11 May, all subsidies were paid regularly. After the election, from 11 May with subsidies paid, it began in the second half of September. Bruca and shame. At that time and now in the last month, subsidies have been paid, but when the subsidies for the breeding of the Junad are in question, for the cows of the museum, for the tow of the junada, when it comes to the milk premiums that are late, you know it very well, and the special story is subsidies for the tunu junada and for the breeding heifers, where since 2007, our farmers have not received subsidies. I see you're looking at me strangely, Mrs. Dragutinović, it's true, it's verified information, it's exclusively farming, and I come from an environment that deals with agriculture. My family, after all, has been engaged exclusively in agriculture since 1946. The municipality I come from, 40% of the population is farming, and now, believe that nearly 80% of the municipality's citizens are now engaged in agriculture because there are no other sources of income. These are, however, smaller parcels, but people are forced to work and survive in that way, because in my community of privatisation, normally poor privatisation, it's done its part, where thousands of workers we've got on the bureau and we just don't have a solution for them. Regardless of the exceptional correctness of local self-government towards our citizens, where we are making every effort to meet them, to fulfill everything we promised in the elections and believe that in 80% of the cases we have fulfilled our citizens. That is what the citizens of Odjak municipality know that prices and they show it unequivocally in every next election that comes. When it comes to agriculture, Mrs Dragutinovic, I must tell you that farmers are somehow deceived. First of all, I mean the loans that were raised through the Development Fund, where they entered into serious production, and now the state towards them, at the very least, has a maternal relationship. People gave their country, their mortgage houses, dedicated to these people working 20 hours a day, when cows were milking, when it comes to these loans should be paid back, and with the prices that were on our market yesterday they couldn't even cover the basic costs. Since I don't have much time yet, we can talk about agriculture so much, we look forward to Minister Dragin here and the laws on agriculture come, we'll have a lot to tell him. And Minister Dragin himself was on a one-day visit a month ago, I think it was Sremska Mitrovica, said that the relationship to our agriculture was "more than pork". Imagine when the minister says something like that, and it's obvious that even if he wants to help agriculture, he can't do it from this government. I don't know why, I have the impression that he was somehow the softest when you were in the government. Mrs Dragutinovic, is that not the reason why the subsidies for agriculture were abolished, that you could have the easiest and most impact on Minister Dragin that he would give in? You say they haven't been lifted, but many subsidies will be lifted, because you want to make a professional farmer. This is not a moment for a professional farmer, because of agriculture, many other people who have additional activity, but survive in this way. The attitude of this government towards our citizens is more than shameful, and I will only tell you that it should treat the citizens of Serbia and the people of the environment in which they live. Elections are elections, Mrs Dragutinovic. Yesterday we had an election in my municipality, in a local community, where 11 members of the local community were elected. The SRS went to that election. Nine candidates, one DSS candidate and one in front of a group of citizens have passed from the SRS list. That's how it works in its midst and treats its citizens, and they know how to appreciate it. Otherwise, there is Serbian Radical Milan Cuk, there is unequivocal support for its citizens and will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12617	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12618	Dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 22, because we believe that the proposed law does not meet the pre-election promises, and especially because of the global economic crisis that is seriously knocking on our door. Those who pretended to be more than socially responsible have turned into a socially irresponsible government. Only the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister are taking from the budget, as far as I've been following, 157 million dinars. Furthermore, according to some information, Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobibic has employed more than 40 people in his cabinet for the past few months, and some information suggests they are mostly party and cousin ties. Looks like half the tribe's going to get a job in PUPS-holding resorts. What do you say about G17's resources? I don't think there are any members of the G17 General Board who don't work in the state administration. Soon, the government will stop calling itself the Serbian government and become a tribal council. We've been killed by corruption, nepotism, and we can't even talk about organized crime. You kill the state with a huge administration. Even those world organizations, which we absolutely don't care about, even those of you, are a little bit of a warning to kill the state with too much administration. Hundreds and hundreds of workers are released daily. It happened in two or three days that a thousand and a few people were fired, I think in November and December. In addition to firing workers, the economy is shut down, agriculture is barely alive, and only the state administration is booming. The government is late for 41 days for the budget. We bring the budget as if it were an emergency. In the budget, some ministers, like some rude or ill-trained children, have made such a wish, that it is simply amazing. Then or only after the budget, as I said earlier, come these laws that need to be filled or fulfilled that list of wishes called the Republic of Serbia's budget. Here are some examples I was just talking about. Some information on the media, which is still in circulation yesterday. He says this: "Mr Mladjan Dinkic (the famous expert) asked that the economic diplomats elected by the government during the year be responsible only for him." It's just amazing. Then, that already known economic expert Bojan Kristo will be Serbia's economic ambassador. By the way, what about the budget inspection report from the airport? We didn't notice you sent us any information. Then, the Serbian government occupied 13 buildings with over 150 thousand square meters. Of course, it is legitimate to conclude and ask the question: either you intend to expand the administration or have your current capacities become quite cramped, so have you decided to expand again? Those buildings are in the strictest center. Of course, you've done a lot of these things in the budget so you haven't asked the citizens, you haven't asked other experts, you've only asked yourself how much you and what suits you and exactly those budget sessions were the most painful in the government. What turned out to be? Turns out you made a well in the middle of the desert. Although people, citizens, all interested groups, pensioners and others have informed you in various ways that you can't make water out of sand, you've just made a well in that place, not asking any of the natives whether water is gathering in that place, whether it's the largest water streams, say, when the snow melts or when heavy rains fall. No, you decided to build a well in the middle of the desert, and now you're forcing us, the Serbian Parliament, to make you water from sand and fill that well, so that you can get as much as you like. One irresponsible position, one very ugly and sad environment, where fellow opposition MPs are always guilty of what you want to impose, and you force us to always give us very little time to read, to inform and to react to certain amendments to what you do, to help you look like something, to improve them a little, to help you bring those laws into line with some positive European flows. However, a good part of these tips you refuse and then leave us nothing but to react in this way to certain laws of yours, which is to suggest that we absolutely delete every member of your law and talk about it, and we cannot say anything nice, because you do not give us the material to speak positively of you. This part is about the economy, and over the past few months we've seen a lot of ugly ambience and in a political sense, you've allowed various combinations, various exhibitions of some irresponsible people. So today we have a situation that a little bit, so on various committees, we're experiencing the shifts of some people who aren't able to run certain committees. Thank God, a lot of things are in order, so as far as we're concerned, we're going to end up doing what we're given to do, we're going to do the best we can, the most necessary, the most positive, without pushing the documents, without losing the document, but what we've been given and we're going to do it. We'll help you as much as we can, but you need to help yourself to give us space to help you too. I'm asking for article 22 to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12619	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12620	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the amendment of counterpart Sladjan Myajević is a logical trail of concepts that the SRS parliamentary group tried to point to an anomaly proposed in amendments to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. In doing so, we have had a fundamentally important fact which, therefore, the Government is consciously neglecting, which is an extremely difficult social situation for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the negative effects of the global economic and financial crisis that is yet to come. Obviously, what surface monetaryists, whose main range of inflation control is above all, do not speak exactly what is essential. What is primarily in economic life is neither money nor derivatives, nor interest inflation, but only a matter of economic life, which is people, production of life, real people, real companies in economic life. As we have lost a good part of our economic resources in recent years, without our own production and ability to at least resuscitate imports in part, even though the main financial cyclone passes us because of the lack of market development of speculative derivatives, we obviously have nothing to hope for. Without its own economy and its own banking sector, therefore, at least without one serious national bank that could finance the recovery and development of economic life, we simply cannot expect to go well in this global tube. Responsible for deindustrating Serbia, for losing chances of what kind of economic development it is, as well as for losing our own banks, you know very well who it is and who still wants to control the country's economic flows. Therefore, even though our financial sector is not so developed by some formal criteria, so it is not even so sensitive, we would not agree with some flat-rate or marketing estimates that this global financial crisis can only tick us off. Since we do not have serious domestic banks in our banking system to deal with the impact of the crisis, and how dominant is the unreliable transition capital, there is a reasonable doubt that it could withdraw from our financial sector, if that is not already happening, and leave the economy and citizens at large. Unfortunately, this concern also boosts the fact that numerous "sides" banks were only an instrument of foreign financial policies, a means of extracting capital from the country or by placing loans on green interest at low risk, and an unorthodox and kalan to launder dirty transition money. Therefore, we do not have an illusion of the quality and seriousness of our banking sector, nor of its ability to survive in these extremely difficult conditions. With such bankers and government who have no idea how to survive the financial winter, it is no wonder that it has passed so quickly from the phase of losing the trust of bankers, businesses and the population of the People's Bank and the Government in the phase, I would say, open nerves, impatience, and even some panic moves. That's not good at all, because when people don't trust the system, and we have reasons for that, then the system isn't resistant to challenges. Therefore, although we are placed in the sixth group by formal financial parameters, in countries that are likely to suffer less harm than others, we are not such optimists because of our government's mistrust in institutions and poor performances. On the one hand, the banking sector is acting irresponsiblely like ordinary greeners, and on the other hand they do not give reason to be trusted. The problem is that we don't have built institutions, and the current leaders, of course, weren't aware of the shooting of the financial wall. Because of their incompetence, it's very easy to get all this raw on our heads. The causes of the growing economic distress are primarily in the domain of monetary policy. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate. It is known that the core tasks of the central bank are maintaining the price stability and stability of the financial system. In achieving these objectives, however, the central bank cannot ignore problems with unemployment, economic growth, balance of payments and external debt. The National Bank of Serbia seems to be neglecting these macro-pointers without achieving its basic goal, price stability. If fighting inflation is the only measure of success, the National Bank of Serbia is the most unsuccessful bank in Eastern Europe. From 2000 to 2007 prices in Serbia increased by around 300%. Romania is in a far-flung second place with 162% growth. In other eastern countries prices increased by less than 50% in the same period. The problem is certainly this overrated course which, above all, encourages imports, destimulates and punishes exporters and destroys the balance of payments. Exports barely cover 46% of imports, so part of that gap is covered by the sale of assets and borrowing abroad. The catastrophic balance of payments clearly demonstrates all the senselessness of maintaining such a stable course in an environment where domestic inflation has repeatedly exceeded inflation in the countries with which Serbia is trading. The unrealistic course also deforms the price structure and sends bad signals to investors. Expressed in euros, and that has already been said by colleagues, Serbia is increasingly expensive, especially expensive labour, which makes Serbia unattractive for investment. The low level of investment in industrial plants, especially in export production, shows that clearly. The stability of the currency is always desirable, but it cannot be a substitute for price stability, and even less cannot be the goal of monetary policy in itself. Otherwise, the strong dinar flossula is a currency whose value is little who believes, because you know that citizens are mostly savings in foreign exchanges, and that the banking market is dominated by indexed loans with the currency clause. About 80% of the credit is indexed to the citizens. The comparisons work, only 15% were indexed in the Czech Republic. The degree of indexation of credit in transition countries is a measure of mistrust in domestic currency. Through a general indexation, the financial system loses flexibility, which is the main reason for the existence of domestic currency. By indexing the bank's credit, they take a course risk on an ignorant debtor, put him at risk, which he can't see and cannot protect from. This is why credits are taken more easily in Serbia than they should, and banks protected by the currency clause also approve them where they would not do so if they were to bear a course risk. The financial market is inadmissible to the interests of banks, all of which to the detriment of citizens and businesses. You know that private consumption is the basic generator of inflation in Serbia, so it is certainly clear that these budgets could be spent much more rationally. The space for saving public spending reduction is much smaller than it is suggested. In the end, Serbia absolutely does not need to encourage economic activity through Kenyan through increasing the demand for fiscal methods. It's not the lack of demand that's here, it's just that excessive consumption. It is necessary to stick to the classical concepts of the economy of the offer and I suggest that this amendment be accepted, that you consider what you have heard from fellow MPs, so that this set of budget laws would not be a set of bad law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12621	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the way you're trying to give us MPs in this house, and through us and the citizens of Serbia, present and prove that this budget that has been adopted directly, in a legal science, could be characterized by one name tried by diabolical or diabolical proof. This term is also used in court practice in cases where something is really hard to prove, when proving something represents a considerable difficulty and that is why it represents it. Devil's proof. So, to fill the budget by budgetary donors to the extent that it is envisaged, to spend budget users on the other side, and to be harmonised and without frequent rebalancing, it is really simply impossible. It's impossible for many reasons. Why? On the one hand, you have an army of those who, through all these laws, are increasing various givings, and in most cases, are jobless, disenfranchised, hungry, social cases, losers of transition. On the other hand, they are all devious, who in their insolence, in their greed, in their grammatical and deviousness prove and show that they are truly full of the hungry never to believe. It is simply important to them that they are at the source of money and giving, it is most important to them, and indeed they behave according to that people's saying, "The wolf is no matter how many sheep there are, only if you make him a guardian." The Serbian prime minister is wrong when in his inadequate attempt to get serious involved in what the law and the constitution are competent and paid to honour the opposition that there are many phrases and that concrete solutions should be given. It is not the opposition that provides solutions, but that it criticises existing solutions, that it criticises your solutions. In the end, opposition through its amendments to both the budget and now these laws are really trying to build them up in some way, correct them, which seems impossible for you. We offered you a lot of solutions and in the Budget Law, we offered you a lot of solutions, especially regarding various specialist services, solutions concerning works contracts, which concerned budgeting. But at all that the government is gone, she's pushing one of her own, only her known policy, which is probably meant somewhere out there, imposed, but a policy that actually hurts everyone. This policy primarily harms workers who, we are witnessing, are increasingly out of work. This policy also damages farmers who, despite such wealth in resources, have become a social category. This policy also hurts pensioners whose past work and investment in this country is no longer mentioned. This policy also hurts young people, students and students. Many of them have become a social category in the last ten years, since false promises to make them better. Indeed, the saying here confirms that it is easy for the healthy to advise the sick. Recently, the prime minister told the workers that they really need to make sure that regresses, warm meals and at the end of the salary don't make money on the streets. Is it possible that the prime minister doesn't know that workers certainly know where warm meals are made? They know where to make money and regresses, they know very well where to make money and pay. That's exactly what they're asking for, to allow them to earn and regress, and hot meals, and pay in their factories, in their factory halls, in their businesses. That's exactly what these workers are looking for to go out into the streets. Do you think that these workers are operated on by feelings or feelings minus 15 temperatures? Do you think they're full, hanged? No, they went out on the streets for other reasons, looking for what was cut off and looking for a simple job. They want to do exactly what you promised them at the time of the election campaign. On the other hand, the president appeals and advises that the top priority is to keep the job. Of course, this applies only to those who have a job, to those who have yet to acquire it, he doesn't say anything. When he says something about it, you don't know. But it's important that this ear is fine. And I'd also remember a nice saying that says, that's a Latin saying, the children's repetita plabit -- it's gonna like it when it happens ten times again. Do it ten times, and you think that's gonna work. The workers won't like it, and these dissidents won't like it for sure. However, it is symptomatic here that there is no explanation for how to preserve these jobs. As in some story you have an introduction, a saying, an explanation, here is just an introduction and a saying, there is no explanation. I suppose the explanation of how to preserve jobs is left as a discretionary right for these workers. Is this where they're at the highest level suggesting they go out to the streets and keep their jobs? How, in what way? Or are they suggesting something else? Is it possible that they are told to keep quiet, to mind their own business, to work, not to go out into the streets, to watch who they will round up in the next vote? Maybe that's what they're suggesting with this thesis to keep their jobs. Indeed, my modest knowledge does not allow me any deeper psychoanalysis of such a statement. However, all I know is that there are plenty of hungry mouths in Serbia and I know about that saying that much can happen between hungry mouths and bites. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12623	Thank you, too. Anybody else answer for a word? Miss Marina Ragush. You've got seven and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12624	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I, of course, support my fellow Munjic's amendment and, of course, a specific and very original way to draw attention to what our dilemmas and our fears are, without the pretense that we are trying to use it as political points in a situation where there really is no category of society. Neither is the authorities, nor is it easy for the opposition to rephrase and find solutions to the ongoing crisis in Serbia, for which none of the own and qualified can give a precise answer that Serbia will actually look like this year, what it will look like next or in 2011. We do, then. Mrs Dragutinović, we know and know what efforts you are making, what you are trying to do in terms of predicting the emerging crises, but I am also very confident that you will not resent every effort we make, I hope that it will be justified, that we will simply analyse part by piece, trying to ensure together as well as possible overcoming the crisis that will happen to Serbia. Most often, when SRS MPs come out, based on what they are guaranteed and what regulates the work of this prestigious home, which are members of the Rules of Procedure, it is unfortunately used for an obstructed and orchestrated actually campaign in Belgrade and Serbian media that is about obstruction. Here's one proof that it's not about that. In fact, what the Constitution guarantees us is direct supervision by parliament, by the legislative authority, as one of the highest authorities in one political system, over the work of all ministries, or government. Before the end of last year, we asked a concrete question, which was based only on the writing of the media for the truth, where a very serious prediction of the unemployment rate was given that would rock Serbia in 2010 and expressed concern in comparison to the price hike in terms of how our fellow citizens and people in Serbia would survive what was then foretold in the Serbian media. With this in mind, I am really looking forward to hearing your impressions about the talks with the IMF board of directors and possibly whether there are any newspapers in terms of the predictive or possible action plan of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in particular your ministry, to simply have qualified information. So we asked this question and Mr. Rasim Ljajic, in collaboration with the other ministries own to give a precise answer, gave an official Serbian response to the issue of unemployment, price growth and what awaits us in 2009 and 2010. I am afraid that time will not allow me to present this information to the public in Serbia in the set, but I will use it right, using, of course, the opportunity to speak according to certain amendments, and as a matter of fact, the law that we think as a variant of budget filling will indeed burden our citizens, who, unfortunately, will lose their monthly incomes. So, based on a survey conducted by the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of Serbia in order to determine the real situation in the announcements of mass layoffs, department control, the section of labour inspection in Serbia and within the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as data from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, from the point of view of the country's financial participation in the resolution of surplus employees, it can be concluded that the layoff of employees over the past few months has resulted in several different factors. First, an analysis of the data available in November 2008 suggests that the registered or announced cancellations of the labour contract are mainly due to the establishment of surplus employees in social enterprises who are in the process of restructuring and preparation for privatisation, in order to facilitate the release of excess employees, in order to make privatisation easier. So, first of all, it's about big former giants, like Viskoza - 100 workers, Zlatara Majdanpek - 80 workers, "Prahovo", fertilizer production - 160 workers, "Iris" Prepolje - 450 workers, "TK Raška" - 100 workers. Also announced that the following days will stop working for another number of extra employees, and these are: "Stat" cars of 700 workers, "Gosa" factory of rail vehicles 200 workers, "Shamot" Arangelovac 300 workers, "Electroporcelan" Arangelovac 259 workers and "JAT" 850 workers. Second, the establishment of surplus employees in privatised enterprises in order to release new redundancies of employees. In fact, at the time of the purchase of the company, or privatisation, customers committed to investing in the development programme in the coming years, but to lay off employees during a certain period of time. For a number of privatised companies there is a new phase with the addition of optimal number of employees and the identification of extra employees, so now watch out for the figures - "Zravlje" Leskovac 194 workers, " Rubin" Kruševac 63 workers, "Prima" Pek 200 workers, "Krajina wine" 270 workers, "Krajina wine" goes into bankruptcy and oil "Sun" from 70 to 100 workers. The third basis is the posting of employees on a forced holiday, mainly in private companies and companies where there is no possibility for workers to declare themselves a surplus, which is "Zamber" Vranje 720 workers, where the state through Siepah has provided grants for greenfield investments, where the National Employment Service has provided grants for training employees; Drexlemeyer from Zrenjanin has given about 400 workers. The termination of work on the basis of the cancellation of the employment contract, at a certain time and working through the youth cooperative, was done by "Belier" from Kikinda for 130 workers, "Vik" from Vrsac for 100 workers, " Vital" Vrbas for 230 workers, "Ju-es-style" from Smederev for 400 workers, "Dunavka" from Gradište for 125 workers. (President: Time.) I'm sorry, I'm just going to finish this information, so I'm going to get back to you on some more amendments. I think this is the most important issue and the issue of all issues in Serbia in this and the next few years. So, the next basis is the establishment of extra employees in the dedicated industry, the termination of the work of income institutions within the military, and on this basis the establishment of surplus employees and the payment of severance payments, in accordance with the Vojsca Act, another sentence and I end up, according to this basis, stopped working - in "Milan Blažević" from Lucan for 170 workers, "Remont Institute" from the Cačka for 360 workers, "Cer" from Čačka for 150 workers. At the end of today, we, as an SRS MP, will come out, unfortunately, not with a precise figure, but for now with a number of people who, on any of these grounds, remain out of work. We here also in this response organised by Mr Ljajic have very extensive answers and announcements -- in which way the state, through the budget, donations, subsidies, tries to amortise what is the wave of layoffs. But as we expect, Mrs Dragutinovic, of you to hear really very objective, without hoping for national optimism, because we simply need to know what we are going to meet, regardless of what it is in your job description, we were not all trying together to amortize what everyone, but indeed almost every family in Serbia is going to happen, and it is an existential problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12625	Two minutes. Advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedures of Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12626	Two months ago, Mr. Novakovic, I asked a question to the employees' application, that is, the stand-alone union of the Shamoto Arangelovac factory, when will a public call be issued for sale after years? Now my colleague Ragush reminded me of this problem. In fact, as she spoke, I received a phone call from an Arandelova employee of the Shamota, who asked that, Madam Minister, I ask you - were you in the course of what the Agency did, in the meantime, as a member of the Government, since there were many abuses and that meetings were held on several occasions with Mr Ljubic Aleksandra, director of the tendering centre, who told them that there were problems in the calling process itself? Meanwhile, as I was saying then, and I never really got an answer from the government, the Privatisation Agency, and on the hands of the director, some interested customers applied. I must also tell you now that I warn you, given that the tender has been called, that 900 employees at the Shamot factory in Arangelovac will not accept what is realistically, apparently, suggesting that a colleague of Ragush - that 250 to 300 workers are out of work, and that those who were in the process that followed, have divided the factories into several parts, in the past eight years since the arrival of DOS to power, and how damaged for the earnings that were to be paid to them under the social programme. On average, Mrs Dragutinovic was paid only 241,000 dinars, and they belonged much more. So, this factory, with existing workers, who should all be hired, those who are working, who do not meet the conditions for retirement, and how it can produce and that is the factory that has always had on the home, and especially on the world market of a known buyer. Take care not to make another economic cripple, for in case that happens, make sure that the workers of the Arandjelovak Shamote will be solid and that those who do not find themselves on this, do not give God, the black list of layoffs, which was spoken of by counterpart Marina Ragush, and that they will be solid with those who eventually find themselves on that list. The optimal number is exactly this number that remained after all the social so-called. programmes implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, today on January 19th, I warn you not to joke about it, because support for employees and workers in the Arab Shamota, along with our parliamentary group, also gives municipal leadership, headed by the president of the municipality, Dr Radoslav Krabic, who was elected from the SRS list.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12627	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12628	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, as you can see, have been restored since 46. It's being renewed because the government is trying to fill the budget with a certain way, whether it's money, but it seems to me sometimes as a slave, but now it's money. My father used to tell me how and how those inquisitions after 46 were cleaning up the mags, but now I feel like it's doing a lot more perfidently. Now you're not going to clean up the donkeys or the downhills, but you're going to get the peasant and any other employee to sell their goods, so they can pay the taxes or certain administrative fees they'll give you so you can fill your empty register, or the cash register that you need for your survival. I had one great honor that in 2001 one of the greatest experts, one of the world's greatest politicians today, was Professor Vojislav Seselj, who then spoke about what would happen in ten years or what would happen in 10 years. Well, unfortunately, I say, that's true. It may have happened faster than Professor Vojislav Seselj said then, saying well to the people - the sheep is cut once a year, they can't cut it again, because if you cut it more times, it has to die. It didn't seem to matter to you. You would want in any way to destroy what has been created for decades. What he's trying to say further is that these administrative fees, such as legalisation, such as transfer of assets, such as registration, have, in fact, been increased by these administrative fees. Now I ask you, this property tax, usually the first knee should not pay it, but pay a certain administrative fee, but now that you look at this increase and when you add it all together, you will see that the transfer on the property is equal to the size of the administrative fee itself. Look, most of you probably didn't even read these laws, because the important thing is that it goes through, it's important to meet the pro form, but you didn't come out here to use your representatives, through the finance minister or certain ministries, to somehow improve what you want with this, to rob an ordinary already robbed Serb, or citizen of the Republic of Serbia. What I also have to say is, when you look at it, you see here, your colleagues have talked a lot about agriculture, because you're the only one left in agriculture, but you've already robbed it with some minimum ransom prices last year. I remember well, because I usually want to tell you both the data and the examples, which is when the peasant strike in the Sabbath or the masculine district, when he blocked the Sabbath bridge. He blocked it when the ransom price of live cattle, but the pig, it was 40 dinars. I was with them, watching, because I don't even know how I could answer. Neither to comfort them nor to tell them to move on, but in one hand they held a piece of bread, in another sausage, which is probably the worst quality, but its price was 150 dinars. Now you see who was actually picking up that Kajmak, or who was robbing that tortured labor hero. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have to say is, especially before the election, you remember the villagers. Yesterday, he was Slobodan Milosavljevic, but probably your particular candidates for MPs are moving into a big hillbilly, to promise him they'll be nice to him if they trust you, that their lives will be much better, or you promise him all that. He's not looking for himself and his work. He's looking for nothing. He's looking for nothing to do but not to do business at a minus, but to be at a positive zero. You saw this year, new Minister Sasha Dragin, fighting fires well last year, but I don't think this big farm fire will be able to save him this year. Do you know what threatens Serbia, another great shortage of everything, because no one will be able to produce anything. You don't know what it's like in the field today, what it's like in masquerade and sremish villages. Ladies and gentlemen, in one period when there was a big trade in goods, when I say trade in goods, it was thought that when a certain portion was paid, a certain trade in goods could have been carried out. As gas from Russia could be paid for certain agricultural products. When it stopped, ladies and gentlemen, that was the moment when it went down, and it actually helped to devalue the budget itself, because by not allowing the peasant and the manufacturer to sell their goods at adequate prices, you've already put a noose around his neck that you're surviving today. But don't, you're still in one big positive, because the surplus in one trade is positive, but in secondary raw materials. There is Serbia today in the first place in Europe. Secondary raw materials, those equipment and those enterprises, those factories that used to work, today these technology systems intersect and throw themselves into waste. But therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is bringing its waste and its technological systems to Serbia today and nothing such a factory, whose productivity of production cannot be measured by the new technological systems that Europe today has. This is the goal of Europe, so that it does not allow us to deal with our goods or any competition with them in any way, or at least to be in the same line. That's what Europe wants today, that's what you don't know. What exactly do you want with the EU? You don't know where your place of action should be. Ladies and gentlemen, what is also very important is this disparity price. See how much once a farmer could produce his goods to buy some kind of agricultural machine, how much he needs today, and how and how you give him certain conditions - we release customs imports, you can import tractors, you can import secondhand goods or certain spare parts for combines, for agricultural machinery. I'm asking you-- where's IMT, where's Rakovica, where's the Dragon? Where we were most competitive in manufacturing on the world market. That's what I'm supposed to ask you today, and that's the eight-year work of your governments that have ruled over these eight years. It was important for you, ladies and gentlemen, in the election campaign to fool voters and continue in the same trend, where it stopped in the previous period. What I also want to tell you is, what about one big problem, with the problem of Kosovo, with the problem of those people who live there. Usually in a pre-election campaign, you visit these people there, the ministers all shine, promise to be from the government and that some parliament will keep them there in those enclaves. These are the largest camps in the 21st century in Europe. Is that what the EU's fighting for? You watch TV shows where the citizens of KIM, Serbs and non-Albanian animals, the only wish they have is freedom. They don't even have food or electricity or heating, but they want freedom, the freedom that you promised them in the election campaign, but you didn't let them. That's what, ladies and gentlemen, this government and this government have been plagued for eight years, which, based on these Serbs, that last misery of Serbia and the Serbian borders in KIM, is why you tricked them into a pre-election campaign. Because you don't visit them at all, many in containers live, you've seen many families showing up with children. These people should be our pride, these people don't need to do anything else, because they've all been fired in many of the companies they've worked in, because they're fighting for personal existence and survival. Ladies and gentlemen, it's important that you with your property card can cover and boast. Look at many ministers how many apartments they have, how much capital they've robbed Serbia for the past eight years. That's what you need to imagine deeply. You smile, in the election campaign, the main flossula is your fight against corruption and crime. Where is this crime and corruption than between you? It's not among Serbian radicals. We're not in power. You're in power. You've robbed it all. You don't have to go far to look for them, but they're in your ranks. That's what you want in every election campaign, to cheat, but unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia stick to that glue because it's the easiest thing to cheat, because at some point you offer him money, and you've learned, through your own, to call them American sponsors and those employers, they've learned how to buy votes in Serbia. Unfortunately, money is bought, but it's short breath. In the end, what I could say, is, you heard, probably every citizen knows, when Mesic left, or when he boasted he destroyed Yugoslavia, he said -- I finished my job, that task I got from the Americans. That, ladies and gentlemen, in this recent history, is the task of two people, which is Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic. They got a job like that, but unfortunately they didn't do it. For what? They didn't do it because, as they boasted, all 18 years, or this other 15 years, they were bad guys in the SRS. Their only task was to fill their individual pocket. In the end, with those who sponsored them, they had to leave together. But they'll go back to history, you know where the waste goes, to recycling, or to the garbage dump... (President: Please, Mr. Zivanovic, come back to the topic. I'm done. That's where they probably belong and belong to those who are with them. Slowly, time does its part. With them are all those who are from all other political parties waste. It is now in these political parties, and they usually boast in the newspaper that new members are coming to them. He asks me, in the end I must mention his name, Tomislav Nikolic (President: Time). I didn't get two million dinars, too. I didn't, because I'm a house kid, I didn't learn how to win, like he and Alexander Wolfie get money in their pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12629	Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have finally come, Mrs Dragutinović, to Article 25. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which is in fact the essence of this law and which is the basic reason why we have proposed to delete all previous members, to propose to delete this member and to prevent our amendments from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by increasing administrative taxis, the full budget. You have rejected this proposal with one detailed explanation prescribed in the reasoning of the bill, and among other things you say that the amendment is not accepted because Article 2. The bill proposes to suspend the law on federal administrative fees, which contributes to legal certainty and provides for a more transparent and simpler application of the rules governing fees. Last week, when I spoke about one of the amendments to the bill, I drew attention to this rather ridiculous explanation, because the truth is, when the state union of Serbia-Montenegro ceased to exist, it was then necessary to put aside all those laws that regulated both this and any other matter at that level and that it was necessary to bring those republican regulations into line with the new powers that the Republic of Serbia received. You just remembered to do this, and I didn't get an answer for what happened in the meantime? What was untransparent in the meantime, because you say this law contributes transparency in the payment of administrative fees? What gave legal uncertainty because you say this law provides legal certainty for Serbian citizens? If it's true both, and there's no reason not to be, but the question remains to be answered, Madam Minister, what happened in the meantime? How did you, as finance minister, allow administrative fees to be charged in a non-transparent way so far? How did you let, because of the absence of this law, we live in a legally insecure state, because you're the legislator of this law and you have to answer these questions? Article 25, I said that's the essence, it's tariff numbers, about 250 or, specifically, 248 tariff numbers, which, individually, suggests how much of an act or business will be charged for a republican administrative tax. Last week when we talked about this law, I think Zoran Krasic, among other things, pointed out, or wondered what it would cost to issue new passports now. Mr. Ilic, State Secretary, your associate then showed from the scene that it would cost zero dinars, and of course he lied, that he had deceived the citizens. There's no job that can cost citizens zero dinars. First of all, when it comes specifically to passports, to obtain a passport, it is necessary to attach, among other things, the assurance of citizenship. The assurance of citizenship is paid. There are needed photos, some other forms and plus municipal administrative fees, which are paid in the MUP, because the MUP is at the municipal level, but why did I mention this particular example? Because of the belief of citizenship, which you didn't have to change at all because of the belief you didn't have to change it was Article 20, it was the amendment of Milovan Radovanovic, where you added a new position, that you have to stress that confidence cannot be used for any other purpose. I want to remind you or someone who has been helping you as an associate in making this bill that beliefs are issued under the General Administrative Procedure Act. Once it was a Article 176, I remember it well, and in belief it always states that the belief is issued at the request of both, and that it is used for both purpose and purpose. You didn't have to make a farce to get to Article 25. We've suggested that the entire member be deleted. Later on, we will actively participate in the debate of colleagues who have asked to change certain tariff numbers, but we thought there was no place to regulate this at all at this point, because all of this has been regulated so far. All taxes have been charged so far. You cannot convince us that this law, among other things, does not serve to make it easier for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to overcome the economic crisis, which is present in Serbia as well as throughout Europe, and will yet be. Instead of being socially responsible to the government, you as a government find some solutions, some modes for the citizens of Serbia, as easily as possible, to overcome this very difficult period that follows us. For the sake of the public, first of all, I will draw attention to some of the taxis you provided for in Article 25, or the height of those taxis. In heading 2, you provided that the application for interpretation, explanations, or opinions on the application of Republic regulations would cost a thousand dinars. My question is first, who will be asked this opinion? The only one who is authorized to authentic interpretation of the rules is the Serbian Parliament. It should not and should not be charged any tax for such an opinion by the Serbian Parliament. We are the people's representatives, and we should not be in a situation to charge for such services, a fee of a thousand dinars, which is not small at all. In heading three, you predicted a request to buy an apartment, say, would pay 900 dinars. This must also be added to the municipal administrative fee, as the purchase of apartments, in a scale with the Housing Act, is carried out at the level of local self-government. You know it's a very small number of apartments that are unrepurchased, that there's no longer the possibility of getting apartments that could be purchased in accordance with this law, except for some that are still unrepurchased. It is absolutely pointless for me to use the term, in such a small number, or in the end of a job, to charge a tax of 900 dinars, plus a municipal administrative fee. The tariff number 5, for example, says the requirement to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for starting operations is paid a fee of a thousand dinars. As much as a taxi is paid here, I wasn't able to calculate it, but they know the citizens, and I remind them it's not just a thousand dinar taxi. That is, to say the final Republic tax and then the municipal administrative fee. What precedes the adoption of a solution or conclusion on the fulfilment of the conditions for performance is at least three inspections and the request for all three inspections is paid, and then the adoption of a TI inspection solution is also paid. So this is not a tax on a thousand dinars, but at least 5,000 dinars at least. That's my free estimate, unaccounted for. To appeal to the Authority, heading six, if this law is not otherwise prescribed, the tax is 300 dinars. You have a note here, if one complaint is filed in the same administrative matter against a number of tax resolutions in this tariff number is paid according to the number of solutions that are contested by appeal. This is already an insolence by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. One complaint is filed, and a tax is paid on as many solutions as the complaint applies if there are possibly more solutions. 900 dinars are paid in a complaint against the infringement solution, a tax of 1,100 dinars is paid for the complaint against the customs office's decision made in the administrative procedure. Do you think these are adequate amounts? We don't think that, if this were indeed, I would say, the withdrawal of money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as you predicted for an emergency legal remedy, that's heading 8, paying a tax of 1,750 dinar. It's not clear to me at all, if we've already passed the laws, that the law enforcement authorities become courts for violations, who will be subject to these charges, who will pay the tax for an emergency legal remedy? That's what we've been talking about years ago, since DOS has been in various forms of power, that you, with every law that we've ever passed here, and crimes, and we've always insisted that there be a codification of those regulations, that not every law can have an offence, that not every law can have a crime, but that all of it be in one, or two laws, is one law of violations, and the other is a criminal code. You didn't accept it, and you don't accept it, so you plant these cowardly eggs, and this is one of the ways that you're actually dragging your hands into the citizens' pockets. Tariff number 10, for a solution to determine the general interest in the expropriation of immovableity, you predicted 17.5 thousand dinars. My question is first: who pays that tax. Did you have in mind the Expropriation Act when you predicted this fee? Did you have in mind how, according to the current Expansion Act, the general interest is being determined, that it enters the possession of exploited land and this is not the only tariff number that applies to this matter at all, but unfortunately it's been 15 minutes, so when we talk about amendments to these tariff numbers, you'll hear a lot more questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12631	On Article 25, Section A, headings 13, 14 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Mr Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12632	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I am very pleased to have you here today to listen to these objections brought by the DSS MPs on the draft administrative fees bill, because last week you were, as far as I know, prevented and unable to attend the meetings. We had a lot to tell you, suggest, give suggestions etc. Several dozen amendments have been submitted to the proposed law, they are mostly very meaningful and represent a way to try to amend the provisions of the new law in a sense that would be less burdensome for Serbian citizens. In light of the proposal for a law on administrative fees, it is said that the reason for its adoption is the need to prescribe republican fees for files and actions that were of importance to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and are now being transferred to Serbia. The second is also to agree cases and tax obligations with files and actions that were in the jurisdiction of the authorities for whose work is paid administrative tax, etc. Generally, none of the arguments say that the basic reason or probably one of the basic reasons for prescribing such a law, the passing of such a law, is in fact the replacement of the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The budget, adopted at the end of the year, envisions around 16 billion dinars, which is about 30 per cent more than in the previous budget. In the proposal to amend certain tariffs of the Law on Administrative Taxes, which I have submitted the amendment to, above all, for those matters that are relevant to the daily life of citizens, these are the most basic things concerning various overtures in the court, with municipal authorities, transcriptions, photocopies, signature certificates and the like, where the increase of taxis is somewhere and up to twice as much as it has been so far. For example, 97.5 dinars have been paid for the copy of an act, or over the copy so far, and it is proposed in the law to be 260 dinars. There were also 97.5 dinars for the signing overture, and 260 dinars are proposed. So, two and a half times as far as it has been, and it will obviously hit the widest layer of the population, so Serbian citizens will pay for everything we won't be able to replace from customs and excise duties on import products, because the government has decided to unilaterally remove or reduce most of the customs duties on import products, thus allegedly allowing these products to be cheaper for Serbian citizens. But in this way it will help the import goods flood the domestic market, and domestic products due to high interest rates that commercial banks, forced by the National Bank, because they give a high reference interest rate, give very expensive loans, which are installed in the price of domestic products and can therefore not be competitive to foreign goods, if that last mechanism of protection of domestic production, and these are customs duties on imported products, are reduced. These proposals for a law on the abolition or reduction of customs duties do so, will result in a significant decline in domestic economy, a significant decrease in domestic sales, as it will not be competitive, it will not be able to withstand the match, and this means that there will also be a decrease in production, i.e. loss of jobs in some of the activities and some areas of domestic economy, which will certainly have multiple consequences, not only for the budget, but for life in Serbia at all. With this amendment, I proposed that these fees be significantly reduced, i.e. to be as much more real as the cost of life these years and that approximately, if two years ago a regulation was laid down to make 97.5 dinars, in two years inflation would be about 20%, it would be realistic that this tax would increase by 20%, so I suggested that instead of 260 dinars, as proposed in the law, that the signature would be 120 dinars. I think it's something that's not a populist policy, but taxes can be collected, and they get picked up where there's luxury and where it's spent most, but what every man in this country has to pay, so that means the poorest ones, the least they have, he'll have to keep those fees as minimal, or the increase in those cabs as minimal as the real cost of life. I think that, in that sense, there is an excuse to accept such an amendment, because it will not matter how much it affects the overall budget income structure based on an increase in administrative fees, and it will affect the standard of our citizens, especially those the poorest to whom every dinar means, even one over the signature. If it is 120, not 260 dinars, it will mean the person receiving 7,000 pensions, so it couldn't achieve a much bigger increase that was promised to him than those 700 dinars, which were subscribers to the phone and increased impulses long ago ate. In view of that, you said so, and probably the final bill will show that the budget receipts last year were about 25 billion less than the budget rebalancing and that, based on the unilateral application of the SAA, there will also be less income for around 250-300 million euros, which again amounts to 25 billion dinars, with debts that this country long ago owes to, say, to the tolls or some other categories, we come up with a dangerous figure of government debt. Last week, I was talking here about a big problem that was going through the media, about the city of Nis. The city of Nis, based on the privatisation of DIN in 2003, received those miserable 5% of the total amount by selling capital to Philip Morris. The 5% amounted to around 20m euros at that time. At the time, the finance minister, and today's Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, did not immediately transfer the payment from Philip Morris to the Republic of Serbia's budget to the 5% local self-government, but in a few months later, he made a legal obligation to transfer money and, therefore, the city of Nis was cut off by 1.3m euros. It is not a small figure, especially for Nis, in which 35,000 people do not work and whose budget is stagnating for years, and we have experienced the moment that this year, unfortunately, that budget will be less than the Kragujevac budget, and the town of Kragujevac is less than at least 50,000 inhabitants or perhaps more than Nis. In addition, based on the liquidation of MB "Banke" Nis, carried out by the NBS, the city of Nis held 100 million dinars in MB "Banca" Nis, based on liquidation, was obliged by the NBS Commercial Court to return these 100 million dinars to local self-government. She didn't do it either. From 2005 to 2008, part of the city's budget of Nis from about a billion to a billion dinar, depending on what moment it was working, was in the consolidated account of the National Bank's Treasury. On this basis, on the basis of the poor interest paid by the National Bank, which runs around 2.5-3%, in those three years the National Bank and the state were obliged to pay the city of Nis again, approximately 100 million dinars. The town of Nis last year made a request to deposit those funds, the National Bank didn't do it, nor did it transfer our city's money, which was in MB "Banca", so it was liquidated, nor did it transfer the interest money that it rightly belonged to, because the funds were held in the vault account. Then, of course, in all our cries and what we've been saying from this pay phone several times, Mayor Nisa came out with a statement that he's going to sue the state and the NBS for systematically cutting off the town of Nis, even what his money is. Last week, I told you here and asked your secretary of state to tell me where our money went, to whom the citizens of Nis went and who was responsible. If the city lends you its money to serve them, how can they evaporate, go to another user, and not return them to him who lent them to you? In doing so, you do not pay interest, you do not pay even the money held in a bank that has been liquidated, and that money has returned to the NBS. Not to talk about regular transfers that were also late and I'm not sure they were still paid for December. They weren't last week, they might have been executed, because you sent your envoy, State Secretary or Assistant to the Ministry of Finance, to negotiate with local self-government how to deal with it in the coming months. I commend this mayor's move, although he's from the opposite party of mine. My party, the DSS does not participate in government in the town of Nis, but commends this move, because it seems to me, the only way to cope with this fatal centralisation of the state and with the control of all the money in the state in one place, and then whoever is louder and more rude, he gets the money, the one who goes the regular way, always forgets about him. I ask you to think about this problem, because it will be very ugly for the city to sue its country and cut off the city most affected by the transition, with an average of 28 thousand dinars, compared to the republican average of 35,000, in which 35,000 people do not work, of which 13,000 are highly skilled. You forgot about that town, and it's the third city in the Republic. What can those poor people who live in Surdulica, Bojnik, Prokuplje, Blac, Kursumlia, Zaječar, Bolovac, and do not list the cities of Southeastern Serbia that have been completely devastated, which, by economic migration and demographic depopulation of the population, is certainly due to the lack of care of the state and the cases that have taken place in the town of Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12633	The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Mrs Radeta has said, we have finally reached Article 25 of the Law, which defines tariffs, which are, in principle, the essence and meaning of this law, and certainly there will be plenty of room to talk about, to point to all the gaps observed in the draft of this law. As for Mr Lapčević's specific amendment, I think he was acceptable. It was acceptable for many reasons, but it should certainly be mentioned that these are not large fees and reductions in these fees that Mr. Lapcevic suggested I don't think they would cost much of the budget, or that revenue side, given that on that scale you were on the receiving side of this republican administrative tax not among the first three, at least so I think you did, so you could accept this amendment. Since you haven't, I'm going to try two tariff numbers defined in this Article 25 to point out something, Madam Minister, in principle that in my statements under this law in the past week I've tried to point out to government representatives, and these are headings 187 and heading 190. Before I go to it, since you are an adequate talker to the MPs when it comes to this law, we have been past weeks, the SRS have tried to point out a few problems and you will not blame me for this digression. I would take advantage of your presence and try to point out the fact if you can use your authority as finance minister and try to look at the people who are here as representatives and slave houses of Belgrade, and the Trudnik from Belgrade and certainly Synthelon from Backa Palanka, who, through the privatisation of these companies, have suffered great damages and problems, come nonstop. It is not difficult for us to talk to them, but it seems to me that you are responsible as an executive authority, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to take their problems seriously and think about them and help them solve them. As for the tariff numbers I mentioned earlier, I insisted last week on the government's irresponsibility when it comes to the harmonisation of certain taxis under this law. When it comes to harmonisation, the harmonisation of taxis under this law does not just mean changing their nominal amount, increasing or lowering prices, whether for an inflation rate or for some other economic parameter, criterion or reason, it doesn't matter. The coordination from the angle of the SRS means something else entirely. That's what I'm going to try through these two tariff numbers to say. I think that the responsibility of the state in this matter should, above all, be concentrated on ensuring a high standard of administrative services, i.e. procedures. Through these and these defined fees, you certainly can't recognize it. When you look back at what I want to talk about, these are tax tariffs that apply directly and indirectly to the area of environmental protection. This Europe of yours, where you go and which you seek, insists on protecting the environment. If you want to at least introduce yourself to a serious and responsible government and state, then you have to solve the tariffs in this area in a completely different way, not completely, but more responsible and serious way, so that those who value you, evaluate and evaluate how compatible you are with Europe and can give you at least a transitional assessment. Unfortunately, even in that area, you can't get a passing grade from the European Commission. I would remind you that when the European Commission has given negative assessments in terms of environmental protection, among other things, it is a poor situation in the field of nature protection, waste management, water and air quality, genetically modified organisms, chemicals and noise, which is the most important thing, and these two tariffs, Madam Minister, which is that greater harmonisation and application of environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments are needed. This heading 187 applies to that right now. If you refer to that tariff number, here are your fees of between 26,000 and 84,000 for requesting consent in the impact assessment study and for giving consent to the study on the assessment of the impact of the found state between 23,000 and 73,000 dinars. Ecology is expensive. Ecology is an adequate way of dealing with serious and expensive, or rich countries. By dealing with this region in Serbia, it certainly is. But that doesn't give you the right to this kind of financial arrogance, Vlad. This is a lot of money and a lot of money, and this won't work stimulatingly on all those who need to deal with these analyses that need state services for these analyses to give. For us, spatial planning is in turn, and this is all about one environment, along with all those who want to and want to invest in Serbia. The SRS believes that if you don't define your relationship as stimulating to everyone who wants to spend money, whether individual construction or for investors who want to build, build and invest money here. You can't expect anything back. This was one of the models to make you look stimulating, or to make a positive investment climate. This way, with these prices, and those who opted to drive them into an area of illegal, or beyond the border to get them out of the framework of legality and legitimacy. This will then be transferred to urbanism, building permits, etc. I repeat, you cannot make up for all that is lacking in the budget and that you are serious about protecting the environment above all, and then for some other things that you will lack objectively in the next year of budget funding. The second tariff number I would like to comment on is heading 190. Be careful, it is a fee for requesting authorisation and for collecting, using and transporting certain types of wild flora and fauna. This defines two things, what is the attitude of the state to the resources we have. This certainly applies to the purchases of fauna, forest fruits, herbs, something objectively in this country is still intact and makes our comparative advantage. Look at this, when you define fees, you have to define through these fees and who you're going to protect with a high or low taxi. Their purpose can't just be to fill the budget. Just because some taxes are low in its nominal amount does not mean that you will protect the interest of the citizens. It's like that for you in this case. There's a license fee of 2,620 dinars, that costs, to narrow down to what's going on in the field, 10 kilos of blueberry. Those who get the right to buy, just laugh, but that's the way it is, I know it's funny to you, but someone who's been tortured by this objective torment all summer. I don't know how many hours he spends collecting any kind of forest fruit. Someone pays and gets a license for 2,620 dinars and buys thousands of tons in the fruit or vegetable season, or forest fruits, medicinal herbs. It sells in the EU at a hundred times higher prices than it pays in the ransom. You don't protect citizens with taxes at these low rates. You protect buyers who have the character of monopoly, whether local, regional or national, it doesn't matter. That's your problem. This is saying that you didn't take these taxes seriously, not essentially, but just formally. Of course, I'm not putting this all on you. I'm looking at you, and I think you're a good talker. Madam Minister, it's already too late for you to change things. Hopefully, I'll still answer, there are some other tariff numbers that you could have done more seriously, which in one appropriate way would have made an impression, as you like to say, politicians or governments of European implementation. This is not how you go to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12635	Thank you. In the sense of Article 85, I would like to thank you for your early afternoon work and set a break from one hour to 15.05, when we will continue the amendment to Mr. Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. To Article 25. Section A, headings 20 and 29, was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Milos Radulovic, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I am informing the National Assembly that, under Article 85 of Article 5, we will be working after 18.00 hours today, and by discussing the details of the law that is on the agenda at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12637	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, we have been here a few days to discuss laws that are very important and that are directly related to the Budget Law. It is really inappropriate that, on the day we had the start of the debate on these laws, the authorised legislator of this law in front of the government, Mrs Verica Kalanovic, otherwise the Minister for the NIP, explained only in a few sentences the justification of these laws, where she explained with only one sentence the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes. At that time, she literally just said this, as far as this law applies - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes provides for the suspension of the tax on the issue of passports from the foreseen 1,000 dinars. No more sentences, no more words about this bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes. Otherwise, the very composition of authorized people in front of the government shows a special relationship, but in a negative sense, as the government considers that these laws are fundamentally significant, because there was a Minister of Spatial Planning in front of the government one day, Dulic, and he was Minister of Faith, Mr Shijakovic, none of those directly related to the economy and economic issues, and we really expected here to address and explain these laws of competent people, who could explain the justification of all these changes. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes, as well as the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises, is directly caused by one law and by the act of the Government, which is the unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, i.e. the Transitional Trade Agreement. Because it is these laws that aim to replace the deficit in the budget resulting from the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement, which directly affects the total revenue by customs, where we have a reduction of the entire 20 billion in this budget compared to the previous budget of 2008. It is estimated that around 350m euros are in this part alone, and that we are not talking about the part relating to a situation which will produce the incompetence of domestic products and the threat of domestic economy, precisely because the government has unilaterally joined the Transition Trade Agreement, so that it brings domestic producers and domestic economy into an unfavourable position. How, then, does the government think about filling the budget gaps by increasing excise duties on products? We have a total increase of 14 billion, or more than 14 billion, and over administrative fees, where we have an increase of about a billion and 200 million dinars in this way. This leads us to the dilemma whether this government is professional or unwitting and on whose orders it does what it does and as far as the Transitional Trade Agreement is concerned. I have tabled an amendment to heading 20, where the amount of EUR 8,730 per dinar is changed to 3,500 dinars for a solution to be applied for in the Register of Indemnities, Foundations and Funds. I believe that in this situation where there is an increasing number of active assets, funds and foundations, in a situation where society is in an economic crisis, it is necessary to make it easier for people. And something that used to be a Serbian tradition, exactly borrowing, because if we go through any street in downtown Belgrade, as Sinisa Kovacevic says, we'll see a large number of people in charge, that once people who were real hosts and successful businessmen, right through these responsibilities, have been owed to our people. Unfortunately, he's not there now, or if he does, he's got a lead on him. Also, the crisis is bringing about the need to create the humanitarian funds that we now need through. This amendment is precisely in the sense that the reduction is necessary for solutions related to humanitarian funds, debt and foundations. The second part of the amendment refers to heading 29 - for the transport of nuclear raw materials and materials across the border, i.e. through the territory of the Republic of Serbia, where I asked for the amount of 9.430 dinars to be changed and increased to 174.580 dinars, because it is simply unacceptable for the transport of weapons and explosive materials to amount to 174.580, and for nuclear raw materials, the amount of 9.430 dinars, because if we look at the consequences of a possible incident - much greater consequences can be from spilling out, I say, don't give God, nuclear raw materials, or those substances containing nuclear elements. Also, as far as the Government has accessed superficially and unprofessionally these changes in administrative taxis show heading 198, where for an import and export licence, i.e. a transit of waste which is not dangerous as secondary raw materials is 52,730 dinars, and for an export licence, or a transit of hazardous waste is 45,230 dinars. It is not clear to me at all the reasons and motive that led to a higher tax being for imports, exports, or transit of waste which is not dangerous in relation to the export licence, or transit of hazardous waste. I think the government really needs to take action before we have a day to vote and bring this together. How unprofessional this government is and how unprepared it is to face all the problems that are facing us -- it is precisely an untimely response to all these consequences that the economic crisis is slowly creating here in our country. Some countries already have a second round of measures to overcome the economic crisis and tackle the economic crisis in their country. In Serbia, we still don't know if the government has a program and when we're going to apply it. The best example is these 50 billion that have been identified as the means to stimulate production and create a easier environment for the functioning of the economy in Serbia. It is not yet known by which model, in which way and to whom these 50 billion dinar funds will be allocated, without talking about what I've talked about more than once here, which is exactly the untimely and inadequate response to the increase in interest rates and to the excessive interest rate that Serbia has. Serbia now has a reference interest rate of 17.75% and this interest rate is dragging itself that we have expensive loans that move even, we had data the other day, from 25% to 44%. The question at all is how the economy can affect and how it can act in these conditions. Mr Jelasic gave himself the right to talk about budget rebalancing and that we will already have the budget rebalancing at the end of February or early March, but Mr Jelasic should first of all deal with those things that are the work of the National Bank. It is not Serbia's interest to have only safe banks and an uncertain economy. Money must be placed on those, under cheap conditions, under favourable conditions, which are needed, and now it needs a real sector, economy and economy to get adequate stimulations that will move through cheap interest, in order to make it easier with cheaper money. Otherwise, we will have a problem in this sense that prices will increase, that businessmen – and we have heard from a large number of these large businessmen, or businessmen who manage systems, unless something changes – will be forced to either stop production or fire a certain number of workers, or to break the price of money, or transfer it to prices. I think it is a good time for you to accept these amendments that will primarily affect the lives of citizens, these amendments will reduce the cost of life and create better conditions for the lives of all these citizens. The government, although we know that it has been created under pressure, both foreign embassies and import lobbys, and all these measures that are related to unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement, should primarily work in the interests of citizens, not in the interest of those importers, these people, whose only and exclusive interest is profit, and this profit is primarily broken to the burden of citizens. I think it is necessary that you accept these amendments tabled by the DSS in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12638	You're welcome. The People's MP, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of all the amendments submitted by the SRS to this whole package, so-called. budget laws, which should allow the implementation of the 2009 budget, are an indication of the very poor economic policy of the current government, i.e. the fact that this government did not take adequate economic policy measures to help Serbia's economy overcome the consequences of the severe economic and financial crisis that awaits us in 2009, and on the other hand did not take adequate measures to protect citizens from the consequences of the crisis. Mrs Dragutinovic, your government and, of course, your entire ruling EU coalition mainly represent as a country in which honey and milk flow, in which there are no problems facing non-EU countries. In this way, you are trying to create a false belief with Serbian citizens that they will only be able to live better when Serbia joins the EU. I understand that you cannot accept the arguments, i.e. that you do not want to accept the arguments of the SRS, but here I will present a few facts that show you that the situation in the EU is not nearly as great as you represent it, and it is particularly not as great as your colleague and vice-president, Bozidar Djelic, who, after this speaker, has been so freneticly invited by both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia to enter the EU as soon as possible, as if that entry depends solely on Serbia. So Guenter Verheugen, EU Industry Commissioner, told a German radio that the European economy is sinking into recession. The European governments, fully aware of these facts, agreed at the EU summit in November last year on a plan of measures to be taken by each government to help domestic economies overcome the severe economic and financial crisis, whose consequences are expected in 2009. Among other things, each government of the EU member state has pledged to give a direct financial injection to its economies. Portugal, worth 2.2 billion euros, will tops Germany's 81 billion euros. It was agreed at the summit, Mrs Dragutinovic, in November of last year to single out 1.5% of the Union's gross social product and to focus it on a fund to help fallen European economies. I'm convinced these facts are familiar to you. French President Nicolas Sarkozy says these days, and so do his European counterparts, that the rescue for the European economy is two measures that each government should take. On the one hand, it is tax cuts, and on the other hand, encouraging public works. Of course, you are a far greater economic expert than I am and you will surely agree with me that this is not the original invention of Nicola Sarkozy. In the late 20s, or early 30s, such a policy was implemented to overcome that pre-war economic crisis from 1929 to 1932, and, as you have now well noticed, these are the measures of economic policy by famous economic theorists John Maynard Kanez. The question now arises here, if the EU governments do so, and this government at least declares itself to be in favour of Serbia's entry into the EU, then one question is: why is this government not acting this way? So I totally understand why you don't want to accept the arguments of the SRS. We are a party to the dark '90s, we have participated in all the troubles and troubles of the Serbian people, it is our fault that sanctions were imposed, which occurred in the bombing, etc. You're completely innocent. I understand why you don't want to accept the arguments of the SRS, but I can't understand if you really are such Europeans, as you are, why don't you respect the arguments that come from your European colleagues. What's your government doing? Among other things, you increase excise duties on beer, gasoline and cigarettes. Of course, I understand why you're doing this. That hole in the 250m-to-300m-euro budget, which was made due to the unilateral application of a transitional trade agreement with the EU, must somehow be filled in, so you think you can do so by increasing excise duties. Here, these days in the UK, their ministers announce that they will cut the value added tax from 17.5% to 15%. You said the other day that this government was planning to increase it. Now I'm going to explain to you that you said that maybe the journalists didn't adequately interpret you, mostly you said that this government intends to think about increasing VAT, which, of course, came across negative reactions, first of all, in the professional public. And then your secretary of state, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Ilic, I think your secretary, figured out how to defend you, so he said that you were talking about a possible VAT increase, but that you only allowed it as a theoretical possibility. So, you still allow, you think about increasing VAT, and your British colleagues are thinking not to increase, but to decrease. Now that you look at it, this government, which is supposed to be European, democratic, leading the country into Euro-Atlantic integration, is doing everything the opposite of what the governments of the countries that are already members of the EU, or the governments of the country that founded the EU, are doing. We were talking here the other day, Mrs Dragutinovic, about the Law on property taxes and we proved to you for a congregation pay phone that these tax reliefs that you have announced apply only to the richer layers of Serbian society. For the poor, not that there are no tax breaks, but also these existing cancellations. So again, you are acting the opposite of how your partners and your colleagues behave in the EU. This government obviously does not intend to place the burden of the economic crisis equally on all layers of society, primarily on itself, this government will have the full burden of the economic crisis or at least 90% of that burden to break over to the back of a small ordinary man. I think that, Mrs Dragutinović, we fully agree on that. That is how it is seen that no one in this government has said in any place that there will be public works in Serbia, that there will be tax cuts. This is announced by your colleagues from Great Britain, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Portugal. No minister in the Serbian government has said -- people, it's a difficult crisis, it's not the first time in the world economy, we're going to act the way some other people have acted in similar situations. So first of all, we'll focus on public works. And Vojislav Seselj, to remind you, Mrs Dragutinovic, back in the early 1990s when Serbia fell into a major economic crisis and hyperinflation, offered one of the solutions just to encourage public works. Corridor 10, are public works related only to corridor 10? Probably not. Of that corridor, 10 questions, is something going to happen? Okay, personally, I'd like it to be and that Serbian citizens live better in 2009, but what this government is doing right now doesn't make me some big optimist. Mrs Dragutinovic, let me now say a few sentences concerning the amendment submitted by a colleague from the DSS. I think the amendment is fully involved and it should be accepted. Therefore, the amendment states in Article 25 that a solution to the application for registration is to be paid to the trust and trust register by administrative fees in the amount of, instead of 8,730 dinars, as proposed by you in the Government, to amount to 3,500 dinars. I think this 3,500 dinar number is far more appropriate. I think the government would show in this way that it cares if in the Serbian people, in general, the citizens of Serbia were restored to the spirit of employment that once existed. You, Mrs Dragutinović, as one mindful woman, as an intellectual, I'm sure you know that many cultural and artistic and scientific assets of the Serbian people are actually in charge of great people. The fact is, and I think you'll agree with me, that this length of employment today, at the beginning of the 21st century, died well. Today, there are rich people, but today rich people are investing less and less in churches, monasteries, libraries, universities, schools, hospitals, etc. Today, a good part of the rich people in Serbia, some of whom have acquired their capital in a suspicious way, invest their capital in department stores, large markets, buying political parties, making political parties, etc. I think that, with such a measure, by reducing the administrative fee for enrolment in the employment register, foundations and funds, this government would in some way show a signal, or by sending a message to Serbian citizens that the spirit of employment should be restored and that the Serbian government is actively working on it. It is enough, as counterpart Radulovic said, to pass only the streets of Belgrade, many buildings in which important state, scientific, artistic and cultural institutions are today, in fact, the responsibilities of large people, Ilija M. Kolarac, Captain Misa, etc. Today, the fact is, such people are getting smaller and I think that by accepting this amendment, the government would in some way agree to restore that spirit in Serbia. Let me remind you, at a time when rich Serbs invested some of their capital in science, in art, in spirituality, Serbia progressed. It is the time of the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries, the time of the Serbian nation's greatest bloom. Since they've been in Serbia, I have to say this as a believing man, ever since the spirit of aggressive materialism, faithlessness, etc., since everything has been measured by money and since this money has been invested exclusively in material and not spiritual values, Serbia has begun to fail. Since I know that in the government of Serbia there are also people who think roughly the same way we do, I think it would be good and correct for you to accept this amendment. On the other hand, Mrs Dragutinovic, I do not understand why you do not accept the amendment by fellow Radulovic to transport nuclear raw materials and materials across the border, or through the territory of the Republic of Serbia, instead of this ridiculously small fee of 9,430 dinars, pay the amount proposed by counterpart Radulovic, which is 174,580 dinars. You see, Mrs Dragutinovic, really paradoxical solutions. In order to sign up for his commission in the register of officials, foundations and funds, he must pay according to your proposal of 8,730 dinars, and in order to carry, import, transit or export nuclear raw materials across the border, or across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, he pays only a slightly higher amount of 9,430 dinars. Indeed, completely incomparable things, on one side of the debt, science, art, culture, absolutely in accordance with the principles of environmental protection, on the other hand one quite dangerous and risky transport, absolutely harmful to the environment, which carries in itself many risks, you taxi it almost the same amount. If you are truly committed to protecting the environment, if environmental protection is one of the principles on which the EU rests, why don't you implement it in our legislation. You know what's gonna happen, Mrs. Dragutinovic? Every tycoon, every mobster, every West-based company that has a mind to manipulate nuclear waste will go right through Serbia. Why? Because this government stimulates such transportation. Instead of destimulating him, to determine extremely high taxes... You don't have to help me, I still have a good voice and I can deal with the grea. I've still got time and I'll be done in a few seconds. So, Mrs Dragutinovic, this is how you help transport nuclear waste through Serbia. Just to remind you, thanks to the fact that NATO, and you, not you personally, but some of your party experience NATO as a great friend of Serbia, in 1999 committed aggression against the SRJ, tons and tons of nuclear missiles were thrown at Serbia, with poor uranium. There are growing numbers of people, women, children of all ages, all ages, suffering from various malignancies. Isn't it normal, Mrs Dragutinovic, that in this situation you do everything a serious government can to destimulate the transport of nuclear waste. No, you're still encouraging him. (President: Minute. ) You will charge the same tax to a man who wants to sign up for his post in the register and someone who knows who the white-world mobster and a criminal would like to transport nuclear waste through Serbia. Indeed, Mrs Dragutinović, if she is from this government, there is much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12640	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25, Section A, heading 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs Dragutinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12641	On behalf of the Government, I would like to accept two amendments together, proposed by Mr Nikola Lazic, to exclude churches and religious objects from paying for taxis. I think it's the only two who have submitted the gentleman, it's an amendment to Article 17, after point 4, and Article 25, Section A, which is practically in line with the previous amendment. So this is Article 17 - after point 4, the new point is added, meaning that churches and religious communities are being released, and according to that amendment is the amendment of Nikola Lazic, which refers to Article 25, Section A - taxes and organ actions in the Republic of Serbia, chapter 7, to delete heading 23. These are the two amendments that are connected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12642	Thank you very much. On Article 25, Section A, heading 25, amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has Aleksandar Pejcic, so Mr. Jojic, then Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12643	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear ministers, I hope that after this presentation, you will accept this amendment of mine, because it is not very complicated and it does not require much money and resources. We're also glad you're back here with us in Parliament. Looks like you've had a good time this time. I hope you will answer all the questions raised by the opposition, which is - whether VAT will increase, whether pensions will rise or decrease, whether salaries in the public sector will freeze, whether the standard of citizens will fall, are all the questions we have asked to our ministers who have changed you in parliament, but we have not received answers to questions. For the past month and a half, opposition lawmakers have been asking all these questions and how they suggest, either verbally or through amendments, that the government has no economic and social policy and thus is jeopardising the standard of Serbian citizens, and thus Serbia's economy. It seems that the only government of Serbia does not have a package of measures, and we have heard that all countries in the environment and minority of all countries in Europe are preparing for the global economic crisis. I hope that this government with a certain package will also come before this parliament and that it will also help in this way Serbia's economy, as well as Serbia's citizens' standards. Since we hear dissonant tones from the government's representative, representatives of some institutions, Mr Jelasic, who says he doesn't want to defend more dinar, this discussion that stands behind the government's lack of strategy, but all of these things are being done in a verse, there is no plan to mitigate the negative effects of this economic crisis. We also said that this set of laws, following the laws of the budget, has only one goal, which is to replace the loss of funds that we will lose from unilateral implementation of the SAA, some say 300 million, some say more. With the 300 million we could finance some quality projects, such as agricultural, health projects, to help the most vulnerable social layers. However, the government is extremely condescending towards the EU and I cannot understand this government, I cannot understand Serbia's country as a target for dubiosis, it is losing 300 million just to reach out to some EU representatives. I have proposed an amendment to Article 25, heading 25, which speaks of the registration of sports companies, organizations. I want to go through a classic example to explain to you that you need to accept this amendment. These funds for the registration of sports associations and clubs for developed environments, such as Belgrade, and such as Vojvodina, are not large funds. However, for us from southern Serbia, from poor areas, devastated areas, these funds are large. Although our ambition, our political representatives down in southern Serbia, is to stop emigration, to create a creative environment, so that people stay there, because in some village, the most important thing is to have a sports club, a home of health, a home of culture. In this way you send a bad message to all young people who want to stay in the country in some way, to practice sports, recreation, that registration of sports clubs costs a lot, and they don't normally have the basic means of self-functioning, just to compete. Otherwise, from this amateur sport, I can tell you, from that quantity comes to quality and this youth, these athletes are selected for some larger clubs. And we wouldn't have such an anomaly that at these Olympic games in Beijing we only have three medals, no gold medals. We had two silver medals. We had one bronze, as far as the water polo player is concerned. In order to continue to have high-quality and good athletes, the state must invest in sport, because the state did not regulate this social activity, it did not legally regulate, which I think is extremely bad. We're sending a bad message to all of our future athletes who are going to the big world competitions that the state is solving these things again in one way. We had an example of Mr. Cavic, who complained at a press conference that the state had promised him some funds, so he was given these funds much later. In addition to this, I'll tell you one more thing, that children have over 70% deformities, then 50% obesity, not to mention diabetes. Through this legislation, it is a prerequisite for children to continue to play sports. They don't have to be professional, maybe later if they're talents, but a recreational bar, to correct all these deformities. I'll remind you that we have the biggest sports event in the world this year, and that's the University. We're the hosts of that universe. I will remind you that when we received the sports event, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, Mr Bozidar Djelic came to the post of committee chairman, and since the arrival of Bozidar Djelic, the event has a different appearance. In fact, the government immediately cut off some funding for the event. We've been embezzling through contracts, as far as "Vartex" is concerned, and you know it, because it's part of that team and part of the government, you're at the source of information and you know what it's about. For these reasons, Belgraders will be deprived of observing collective sports because collective sports have been moved to Vojvodina. The rule of the University is that in a 100km radius, games can be held, sports events can be held. Since we've sent a bad message to the world that we're not ready for such a event, we've come to the point that this world organization will move the University to Athens. That's what happened back in the '70s, when we had the University, too, so she was moved to Italy. There was the possibility that even now this would happen, that the University would move to Athens and that Serbia would be left without the world's greatest event this year. Finally, I would like to conclude, since I expect you to accept this amendment, because there is no reason not to accept it, and I hope that I have convinced you of these arguments and the fact that you should still accept this amendment because the state also commits itself to Article 94 on equal regional development, that it will achieve optimal conditions for people to remain on their hearths. That's what I say very often here, that from the south of Serbia has moved over 2,200 people a year. In order for the state to make such an environment, it must give up certain things, including those taxis, to keep certain people in their hearths. As I said, to conclude, in order for Serbia to see, above all, this socially responsible government must leave power. The second thing, Serbian citizens will remember and demand with a candle to the previous two governments, Vojislav Kostunica, when GDP grew from 6 to 7% year-on-year, when foreign investments ranged from three to five billion. You know as an economist, that's how it was and that the standard of citizens has been increased and how. The third thing is, I hope you accept, because many enthusiasts want to form sports clubs, not out of interest, but to help these disabled children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12644	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Dusan Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12645	Ladies and gentlemen, it is unnecessary to explain the importance of sports, sports associations and clubs for the health of the nation, especially for youth health and for the reputation of Serbia in the world. For these reasons, I believe that the fees paid for their registration really need to be reduced to a minimum level, as necessary to cover administrative costs and manual costs of the administration. For these reasons, I propose that Mrs Dragutinovic use her good will and the arguments made by Mr Pejcic and accept this amendment today. The debate that we have been having for five or six days on a set of tax laws is, in fact, a debate on budget patching, with one goal to reduce the hole of several hundred million euros, which was created in the budget by unilateral application of the SAA, and bring it down to some bearable level. The government is proposing this bill to patch up this hole with new taxes, increasing excise duties and administrative fees. It's the simplest solution, the fastest solution. However, this is not a good solution for the simple reason that would most affect those who have the least, the poorest citizens of Serbia. As it ends eight years from the constitution of the first DOS government in Serbia these days, and since I find the difficult situation in which we are now affected, among other things, by this event and the government of the DOS parties, I think this is the right opportunity to briefly remind myself of some of the promises you made to the citizens of Serbia and the results of those promises. From the sea of promises, I will start with the biggest one, which you gave before October 5th 2000, those six billion dollars waiting at the Serbian border, so that these coursers from Segedin return to Serbia and take over power in Belgrade. The second promise was to join the European Union. First by 2005, then by 2007, then in 2012. The third promise was about fair and successful privatisation, which will heal Serbia's economy. The fourth promise was to deal with crime and Milosevic's tycoons. The fifth promise is a drastic shagging of state bureaucracy. The sixth promise, I'm only talking about essential, fundamental promises, is the opening of new jobs. Boris Tadic first promised a million new jobs. Two years later, he and Mladjan Dinkic pledged to create 500,000 jobs in April and May this year, Boris Tadic pledged to hire new 200,000 workers over the next four years. The last two promises I will mention is the promise of a thousand euros from the sharing of free actions and one responsible social policy, a policy that will stimulate the fight for preservation, so to speak, the bearable position of the poorest citizens of Serbia, including pensioners. What's left of those promises? Out of the promised six billion dollars, Serbia received nothing. We received $10m from the West for those embarrassing sales of Slobodan Milosevic and Radovan Karadzic to The Hague tribunal. Unfortunately, neither did the money end up in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but ended up in private pockets. As for Serbia's entry into the EU, all that is happening in Serbia and all that is happening on the European political scene, it suggests that Serbia will most likely enter the EU those years when tourists in Kopalnik ski in last year's snow. As far as fair and successful privatisation is concerned, it is one firm, one name for the largest robbery of Serbian citizens and the property of the Serbian state that has happened in its history. The state mafia in which the main role was played by the party mafia, the party mafia of ruling parties, and for a short period of time, within a few years, literally robbed Serbia's assets worth several dozen billion euros. I will remind you of only one example that is the painting and opportunity of the robbery, it is the sale of those three sugarcanes for three euros. The significant fact in all this is that these sugars have been sold to the director of the DS. As for dealing with Milosevic's tycoons, the fact is that they are no longer there, they have become successful businessmen, the country's most prominent citizens, economic leaders not only of Serbia and the Balkans, but also of Southeast Europe, who not only form the Serbian government, but also of the state delegation as members of the negotiations of Serbia's state delegation with EU representatives. As for cutting state bureaucracy, 8 099 people were employed in the government and ministries on October 5, 2000, and now there are more than 28,000. You practically loaded 20,000 parasites on the Serbian citizens' coat of arms, which cost more than 200,000 euros per year to the Serbian state. Since the opening of jobs, from the promised millions of jobs two years ago, or 200,000 a few months ago, we have come to the draft budget, now the 2009 budget law, which says there will be no employment in Serbia, but is planned to lay off workers. Of the 1,000 euros guaranteed from these free shares, we now have unguaranteed 40 euros from the sale of NIS. As far as social policy is concerned, the real value of pensions in Serbia is lower than before the formation of this government, and what social policy leads to can be concluded from the fact that this draft budget provides for the allocation of less funds for maternity and children's allowances than it was before. I'm going to take this opportunity to look back at a few more of these legal solutions. Tariff number 21 says - a solution required for the political party's entry into the register of political parties. Serbian citizens know that there are more than 400 political parties in Serbia, and that is an objectively one big problem and there is one social consensus about it. Why is that? Credits are certainly made by bad legal solutions like this. Political parties are too serious to get them for 10,000 dinars. On the same page of heading 22, we have the same problem - a solution required for the registration of a representative of a foreign association in a register of foreign associations. There are honorable exceptions, but it is almost an unwritten rule that foreigners, foreign associations, register their representations in Serbia for only two reasons: for economic robbery and for the sake of Serbia's political destruction. Next, a tourist pass at the border crossing. So when a stranger wants to come to Serbia as a tourist, he has to pay 5,240 dinars. Last year, we had a Eurovision organisation in Belgrade, we had several other sports international, economic and political events, and yet there was a drop in foreign tourists' nights. Instead of doing everything to attract foreign tourists, to facilitate their entry into Serbia, mine this way, cutting off this 60-euro tariff, we do exactly the opposite. The next solution that I think is not normal, heading 47 - for a solution from the area of fire protection, which is to be made, at the request of approval of the location of the facilities, means all the facilities, 18,330 dinars, at the request of approval, granting consent to the investment and technical documentation for the gross area facilities, another 7,500 dinars. A total of 25,830 dinars. For houses up to 150 square meters - 7,500 dinars, it means a total of 25,830. You know how much money needs to be allocated to obtain all the necessary documentation for building one house, not to mention the cost of work, the cost of the master, etc. Still, a man should spend 300 euros just to protect himself from fire. The comparisons work, it is more than for the opening of a free zone in Serbia. The following solution, heading 68 - for the sale of products of animal origin outside business premises, green markets and fairs, are mainly chickens, chickens, turkeys, and eggs. For that, these people will have to pay 15,880 dinars, which I think is an incredible hack. For the purposes of the comparisons, heading 66 - for a solution required to determine that the export slaughterhouse and other export facilities meet the conditions for exporting the consignment of the place, etc. 6,280 dinars. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2,620 dinars, and for a solution required to determine the compliance of animal health conditions in livestock production and holding facilities, farms. So on the one hand, we have people, poor people, who sell eggs at the market and pay 15,880 dinars for it, and on the other hand we have people who deal with organized industrial meat production and similar processing, similar products, and they pay from 2,620 to 6,280 dinars, absolutely incompatible and amazing. An even more amazing solution is proposed in heading 73, at the request of the authorisation and application of non - organic - production materials, it is genetic material. I don't think I have to explain to anyone in this room or to the citizens of Serbia what evil is genetic material. In order for someone to get approval for the use of these reproductive materials, he should pay only 350 dinars in Serbia's state, as a few boxes of gum, in order to pay only for Serbia. Tariff number 82 - for the solution required for the recognition of the newly created homemade variety of orchards, vines and hops, 5,620 dinars. I can only imagine how much effort, effort, knowledge and money someone needs to invest to invent a new variety of fruit, grape vines or some grains. The least this country could do, if it is unable to cover those costs, is allow it to register its product for free. Amazingly, in the following point, it is heading 83 - for the adoption of a solution required to determine that persons meet the conditions for the assessment of the risk of limited use, the introduction into production and placing on the market of genetically modified organisms and products of genetically modified organisms, 3,650 dinars. These are, as counterpart Martinovic said, absolutely incomparable things, things that are really hard to explain. On the one hand, people who discover, make new varieties of fruit trees, so our locals pay 5,620 dinars, and on the other hand, those who do production, reproduction of genetic materials, pay for registration, for these administrative costs of 3,600 dinars. I'll only comment on two other solutions. For a patent application, 5,000 dinars will be paid. That's heading 108. This is similar to these solutions for fruit varieties. I really think that people who come up with a particular patent, especially at this economic moment, especially in this orphanage where we live, not that it's necessary to free the payments of any administrative taxis, but that people should be rewarded. We have an entirely opposite solution here. Another, heading 137 - for a solution to permit the release of gas pipelines and the use of pipelines, i.e. a product pipeline for international or highway transport, beware that the construction of these facilities takes at least a few tenths, and mostly several hundred million euros. So that's what people do, international companies that have huge sums of money. To get a solution to start work, those in the Serbian state should pay only 26,000 dinars, a little more than that unfortunate one from the beginning of the story, which starts to build a house, should pay to get all the documentation for fire protection. The last solution I will look back on is heading 215, a solution required for the authorisation of arms and military equipment in the Republic of Serbia. These people who are involved in arms trafficking, in order to deal with this business, they need to pay, imagine, a whole 4,000 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12646	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25, Section A, headings 29, 31, 32, 34, 35 and 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12647	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, to Article 25, in the Home Affairs section, in headings 29, 31, 32, 34, 35, and 36, I have submitted amendments, where I asked that in 15 items, they increase. So if you had carefully read this amendment, you would have seen that this increase applies only to the sides of the physical and legal persons. So it's not about our citizens. Since you haven't read it carefully, it's gone off your mind and that's probably why you didn't accept that amendment. So it's about an increase in gun charges. In the light of the amendments, I wrote that these administrative fees, when they apply to the parties to legal and physical persons, are too low. A few more things. One was mentioned in one of my colleague Milos Radulovic's previous amendments, when it comes to transporting dangerous nuclear waste through the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And I said the same thing, and I asked for an increase in those taxis, but you didn't accept it, and I can only interpret one thing: either you didn't have the strength to accept it or you don't have the strength to oppose our EU friends. So I can understand that there is a dose of serviality towards the EU, but this much service is insulting the limit of good taste. So if you had carefully read all these items, you would have seen that an increase was required when it comes to special types of weapons. Since I'm a little familiar with that weapon, I can tell you what it's all about, so it's about issuing an armed list. The basic type of weapon is the weapon whose price is measured by tens and hundreds of thousands of euros. You know, when someone has so much money to pay for that kind of weapon and one increase of two or three thousand doesn't mean a big deal to them. I'm saying, you probably didn't follow it closely, you didn't read it, and that's why you didn't accept this amendment. The essence of all this, that's what I was saying, and when it came to excises, unfortunately, you weren't present at the Assembly at the time, so that the excises were defended, it seems to me, Minister of Faith, the customs rates of the Minister of Ecology. You've had some more pressing jobs in America, and then, when that's your turn, we'll talk about it. So the bottom line of all these things is that you put your hand in our citizens' pockets to justify some of the things that we said when we adopted the budget, and before that, the budget rebalance. So the budget that you've brought is completely unrealistic. It is unrealistic in all paragraphs and, while we are talking about it, to say that the budget, in order for Serbian citizens to understand clearly, is divided. What the genre said is burazerski, so one vice president's office this big, the other vice president's office so much, then travel expenses, then the cost of work contracts, suma sumarum, that comes up quite a item, and that budget that you've brought, which you've adopted, it can't cover. That's not the end of it. Then you said one-sided application of the Transitional Trade Agreement. So we are importing without customs, to destroy our economy and our agriculture, and to export nothing, and yet another deficit appears, and experts say it is a sum of 250-300m euros. How are we going to fill out that deficit now? We're gonna put our hands in the citizens' pocket again. That's the essence of all these accompanying budget laws. The third thing, we talked about it during the budget, and it seems to me that when the government was formed, you increased the state's apparatus to unimaginable limits. This is the biggest government in Europe. There's no longer any idea how many ministers there are, how many secretaries of state, how many assistants there are, how many advisors, how many of these, how many secretaries there are. For a wonderful miracle, they all travel, they probably make contracts on works, and it all comes out of the pockets of our citizens. Since that is the case, it is our turn to remind the citizens of Serbia of what you said in March and April, until half of May. You said the gross social product would grow at a rate of 7%, so it's been a while and it's down to 3.5%, so it's been a while, so you said 1%. What's - 0.5% now, 0.1%, or is that down below zero? You said: the distribution of free shares of 1,000 euros. Where's the money? You said: an increase in pensions, which will be 70% of the average personal income in Serbia. Where are we with pensions? Yesterday's paper, front page of "News": "There will be pension cuts." And what did you promise? We've come to the conclusion that the signed extended fact of the general collective agreement. What predicted this expanded fact of the general collective agreement? One-time assistance for two million employees in Serbia and 75% of the average personal income in the name of regression and a warm meal. Then you gave up that signed deal. What did you sign? Who signed it? One minister has signed, the Prime Minister said the pui-pike is not valid, none of it has anything to do with it. So you said 200 thousand new jobs. In recent months, what's been going on in the state of Serbia? Forced vacations, layoffs, no salary hikes, pension cuts, no social benefits. So someone has to explain it. What's this about? Not good in Serbia, Madam Minister, is not a good condition. For that condition, and I see you agree that it is not a good condition, and this government is responsible. You're part of that government. Do you think you're carrying any responsibility? Why were you talking? What did you tell those people? Where are those new jobs? Where's that pension increase? Where are those actions? What do we do now? What are we going to do when April and March come to Serbia? What are you going to pay for education, health care, the military, the police? You haven't thought about that? You were thinking of joining the EU and unilaterally applying the Transitional Trade Agreement. Based on what? Yes, and this little thing in Serbia that can hardly breathe, that you can destroy it, that there is nothing living in Serbia. The few people he does to get out on the street. Was that the goal? Tell us clearly, it is our goal that Serbia does not exist, that it has no economy, that it has no agriculture, that we will all import from the EU, we do not need anything. That's not how you run the country. That's not how you talk to the people. Every day of this government is a loss for Serbia, every minute. It's high time for the government to come out collectively and say, we're incompetent government, we brought the country into chaos, we lead it through hopelessness. We don't even know which way we want to go. So, in the end, the goal of these accompanying budget laws is what I told you, and don't do it anymore, don't put your hands in citizens' pockets. They don't have any more money. There's some change left, and that's what you want to pick up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12648	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12649	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during this session, I have asked several parliamentary questions on behalf of the SRS and asked countless notices on very important issues concerning our citizens and our fate. However, the government does not answer these questions. When it comes to administrative fees, Madam Minister, I would ask you for a notice, and if you can't give it, then I would ask the Government to inform the competent authority and answer my question: how many passengers at Belgrade Airport in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007 and 2008? The issue should be answered by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm asking the government to do, if you're not able to answer it, it's about taxes. You should be interested in that, too. Here's why. Today, the daily list "Kurir" published: JAT Airways, at a promotional price of 20,000 cards. The national airline JAT Airways will offer passengers 20,000 tickets at promotional prices on flights to Eurotransit and regional traffic from today to January 25th. The tickets bought will be valid for any travel that starts between February 1st and 28th this year. On flights to Euro-Mediterranean countries, the promotional return tariff is 59 euros, while return trips to the region for Podgorica, Tivat, Skopje, Sarajevo, Banjaluku, Thessaloniki, Trieste, Ljubljana amounting to 39 euros. This issue is very important for those who travel, for Serbian citizens, how many passengers have passed, what is the price of plane tickets? What's the airport tax? I'll remind you, today I checked, the return ticket from Belgrade to Podgorica is 186 euros, and of that, the 80 euros tax plus eight euros in services. So, the airport tax, according to the notices I received today, so I ask whether it is true, 88 euros cost services and taxes at Belgrade airport, and the ticket for a promotional flight for this period is, as I said, 59 and 39 euros, respectively. The promotional price in February is 39 and the airport fee 88. What is the price of the return ticket to Munich: 266 euros and the airport fee 106 euros, plus 30 euros for services. If you buy a ticket online, it's 10 euros. That price is the same for London as I got my notice today. How can services be more expensive than the price of a ticket? For Moscow, the map costs 274 euros, a 85 tax, plus a 30-euro service, which means there's something wrong here. This is about some procedures that shouldn't be talked about much by the criminal police. No wonder then why he pays the director of JAT and the director of the airport a million dinars or a million-and-a-half. As you can see, there's no logic here. So I ask the question and I ask the answer, what were the airport taxi prices from 2000 to 2008 separately and in what amount? How many service charges were at the airport, so we could get information about JAT's business and Belgrade Airport's business. So, according to these findings and checks, this is unacceptable, and then no wonder why such a situation is at the airport. When you say Kristo's an expert, what kind of expert is he? He was an expert to come and sit in the chair and say, raise airport fees by 200 percent and, well, the money doesn't go to the budget, they go to pay. Who's paying for it? Pays the diaspora, pays our citizens who travel. This is unacceptable. These are enormous prices. Please, we want to know exactly the whole truth about the airport. Secondly, Ms. Verica Radeta in the morning section asked why she did not follow the report on the financial operations of the airport? What are you waiting for? Next question, Madam Minister, when will the State Auditor start? The Vice-President of the National Assembly shall pass on to the President of the National Assembly, if he is unable to give an answer, when will the National Assembly put the Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Auditor, or the State? When will it be found, since one year the Rules of Procedure arrived in the congregation, but not put on the agenda? The state auditory house needs to work. I think it's in the interest of everyone, and that's why the SRS is trying to solve this issue and to solve it, to provide the building to the State Auditor, so that no one interferes in the affairs of the State Auditor, that it is an independent and independent institution that will correspond to the state, i.e. Government and government and the National Assembly to control. In 2005, as it is known, the Law on the State Auditing Institution was passed, but until today, the State Auditor is not working, we do not have it. Whoever says we have him and he's working, please and ask for someone to bring in a report on his business for this period since this law was passed on to the State Auditor. Madam Minister, I've asked a question, and you have some knowledge, as far as I've concluded and realized last time, of the report and the notice of the director's and president's salaries, or the board of directors of the Pance Bank of Pancheva, we haven't received it in a month and a half. Madam Minister, I am also speaking to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I am asking the question, when will this criminal rule on fees and rewards of bankruptcy managers be put out of force and bring new tariffs for prizes, i.e. to pay for the work of bankruptcy managers? I asked the question and asked if it was true that Belgrade's bankruptcy manager received four million euros? Is it true that Stevan Moldovan is in countless bankruptcys a bankruptcy manager, from Saturday? Is it true that it took 760,000 euros to receive as a bankruptcy manager in the bankruptcy process "Agroziv" in Panchev? This rule, you see, is signed by the minister, this is brought by the government, but this has no morals, to bring a rule like this, to give the bankruptcy manager the opportunity to rob the workers and those bankruptcy institutions in which he participates. What's his tariff here? If only the value of two thousand is one euro, it needs to be paid 2,400 euros only to that value, and if it is over five million, it needs to be paid about 60,000 euros in bankruptcy proceedings, and more. So this rule is against the law, it's against the law, and there's no logic here that you can give such an opportunity to a bankruptcy manager that a bankruptcy manager robs workers, because this is being charged out of bankruptcy. That's why I'm asking you to ask the government this question. I ask the Prime Minister a question - does the Prime Minister have any knowledge of such a regulation that is harmful and who needs to be changed, only need to bring a tariff under which he should be paid only for those actions he takes during this bankruptcy process? I also asked questions about the lease of state agricultural land. It's millions of dollars, Madam Minister. You're in a position to follow that leather purse of the finance ministry, and that leather purse in French says budget. You're monitoring the budget. Why does the State, Government and Resort Ministry and the competent authorities not initiate a procedure for the collection of those claims resulting from the lease of state agricultural land, because the state land is given in vain and no one pays for it. A large number doesn't pay, and especially no tycoons do. One handles 1,000 hectares in Banatski Brestovac, a tycoon, and will not conclude with the Ministry of Finance and the local self-government contract to rent state-owned agricultural land, but does not come out of possession, and the Government, or the Ministry, does not take measures to deposit it, to remove it from that area, and these areas are huge. What about pastures? The pasture law was passed in 1992. However, mornings and pastures are used by tycoons, for in most parts they have been overstretched and adopted against the law, usurped. They think that through maintenance they will acquire property rights or in an orderly manner. It's impossible. The state must go, the government and the ministry must initiate proceedings in the municipalities of South Banat County, Pančevo, Kovin, White Church, Vršac, Landište, Alibunar, Kovacica and Opovo. I'm looking as an MP from around here to see what the status of these tenants is and who pays and who doesn't pay. I don't want to remind you now... (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. I thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have information about who pays and who doesn't pay, and I think I have to admit that Minister Dragin is taking some steps, but in that, the Government should give him support, if we're going to Europe. The train to Europe, as far as Serbia is concerned, is on a blind track. Passengers are praying to take their seats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12650	You're welcome. I remind the MPs that we are discussing amendments to amendments to the Law on Administrative Taxes. Secondly, Mr. Jojic and you are one of the callers to discuss the Rules of Procedure on the work of the audit committee, and I think it's scheduled for 21, it's the day after tomorrow. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25, Section A, heading 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12651	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on behalf of the DSS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25, to heading 40, which is currently heading 97 A, therefore, in the current Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. In that tariff number, amounts are set for the Republic's administrative fees for all files and shops, and for the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. For the sake of citizens, I'll read the entire tariff number, that's short, because MPs have a bill in front of them, but they don't have citizens, so they know what it is. Therefore, for solutions in that heading, the exact amounts for all documents and acts relating to citizenship are set out. An administrative fee of 480 dinars has been set for a solution on admission to citizenship for refugees, exiled and displaced persons. For all other cases of admission to citizenship is 11.910 dinars. Then, for a solution to obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia under international contracts, the amount of the tax is 5,950 dinars. For the solution to determine nationality, the tax is 480 dinars. For a request for registration of citizens, the tax is 1,320 dinars and for a solution to the termination of citizenship is a fee of 21,170 dinars. In fact, my amendment is to propose that this tariff number be deleted, because I believe that all documents and all acts relating to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, carried out by certain authorities of the MUP, should be free of charge. Also, to clarify that this bill does not increase already existing fees. There are some small changes, because when we passed the previous tax law, there was still the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. So that's where the shifts are and there's no increase in fees. However, whatever it is, I think that all of this I've listed should be free of charge. In 2004, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia adopted a modern and ambitious Law on citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The law, which has been in force for four or five years, provides for an easier acquisition of citizenship for certain categories of people and persons. Even some categories that before that law had no chance of obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, that law, or the current law, could do so. This law abandons, or abandoned, the principle -- one state, one citizenship -- which is particularly important when it comes to people of our origin in the world, or when it comes to our diaspora. We know that Serbs outside Serbia have over 2.5 million, so now a member of a Serb people or another people, who originates in the Republic of Serbia, who has no residence in its territory, can be admitted to citizenship if they meet certain conditions, and among other things sign a declaration that the Republic of Serbia considers Serbia as its state. The process should not be followed by a republican tax, which now stands at about 12,000 dinars. It's not the only complication. In practice, it has proved that the procedure is still quite complicated, so this way I appeal primarily to the MUP that it probably makes some of its sublaws, because it does not need to amend the law itself, makes the procedure simpler. Serbia is facing population depletion, and from censuses to censuses, we are getting smaller, which is due to the white plague, which is due to eviction, so that every new citizen and how welcome we are. For example, the Republic of Croatia gave citizenship to all Croats living in the surrounding countries, so all Croats living in BiH, Hungary, Romania and Serbia, and gave citizenship to Croatians living in the overseas countries. By applying its law, Croatia received over 300,000 new citizens. We are not yet able to resolve the issue of citizenship with the Republic of Montenegro. You all know that around 200,000 Serbs live in Montenegro, who are not feeling well at the moment because they are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They're probably also calling you for help from friends and relatives from Montenegro. I also want to appeal to all those involved in these negotiations which, I think, are no longer being held, at one point it was current, and then there was a stalemate, to renew these negotiations and to reach an agreement on the admission of citizens of Montenegro who feel like Serbs and who want to be citizens of Serbia. I'd like to give an example, I think, of the drastic abuse of Republic administrative taxis. I said it was actual, and what it was about. A large number of citizens who applied for a free assignment, i.e. for the award of famous free shares, remember that action, five million citizens went neatly to the post office, took a personal ticket to the counter, and thus signed up for a free share of shares. I don't want to get into it that it was another colorful lie that was particularly relevant during the election campaign. But after that application, every citizen went to the post office, took his ID card and applied for a free allocation. What's going on now? The Privatisation Agency informs citizens that they must deliver confidence on citizenship, or a solution on the establishment of citizenship, which, under the current law and under this bill, costs 480 dinars. What's that number of citizens I don't know, I just know this shows up as an extra cost for a citizen who probably won't even get those free shares. So it's pretty pointless. If someone took the ID card and on the basis of that ID card, of course, proved to be a citizen of Serbia, because you can't have a ID card without being a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and then after that, they are now asked to deliver their credentials on citizenship, first it's a new cost, and let me tell you that it looks a little like the abuse of these administrative taxis. If we know that five million citizens have applied for the assignment, or the distribution of those free shares, let each fifth be informed that they can't find it in the citizens' records, then multiply it - one million times 480 dinars. So here one question for Mrs Dragutinovic is simply not a question for her, but she will forward it to the Privatisation Agency - to inform me and all the MPs about the number of such requests, so how many such notifications has the Privatisation Agency sent, how many citizens now have to pay and bring assurance of citizenship and is that even legal? I repeat again, if someone had a ID card when they applied for a free allocation of shares, it has thus proved that he is a Serbian citizen. Another question is for Mrs Dragutinovic. The MPs here expressed their satisfaction that you were at this session today, because in your absence there were ministers who were not particularly qualified for the laws that are on the agenda now. You were absent, and in the meantime we were informed that you signed an arrangement with the IMF and that the amount of that arrangement is about 400m euros, in fact there is a precise figure, and I say "eye", that's 400m euros or $530m. I'm not an economic expert, but I know it's actually a possible loan and that's the money Serbia is going to use for God forbid. So it's not something we're going to withdraw immediately, and the money is intended to maintain macroeconomic stability. So if the finance minister or the government of the Republic of Serbia assesses that there is economic instability, I guess that's when the money is used. My question is: will Serbia use the IMF loan to preserve stability, as there will obviously be instability because of the crazy decision to unilaterally implement the transitional trade agreement, or economists claim Serbia will be lost this year. There will be less than 300m euros in the budget, and this loan is approved at 402m euros. Practically three-quarters of this loan would go towards restoring the stability that Serbia itself imposes on itself through unilateral application of this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12652	On Article 25, Section A, heading 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12653	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the DSS to Article 25, Section A, heading 66, and that is so-called. Chapter 12, writings and shops in the area of agriculture, forestry and water industry, and my amendment refers precisely to the part concerning agriculture. What is my first observation is the fact that, as usual, the Serbian Government did not recognise that in this case in export slaughterhouses and export facilities for exporting fish, feathered livestock for breeding and eggs for reproduction has partners and associates in exports, and that somewhere in the end that equation stands a high standard and a higher standard of citizens, or in fact it did not care very much about the Government. Only what is the fact and what we see here is that the Serbian government has been very effective, has immediately submitted a proposal on how to increase administrative fees and will take as much of these exporters the funds they need to fill the budget. Therefore, my amendment actually refers to an increase in administrative fees for solutions required to determine the conditions for the export of meat and products, raw materials and waste of animal origin, i.e. the solutions under Article 2, at the request that export facilities meet the conditions for the export of fish, feathered livestock for breeding and eggs for reproduction. So, very precisely on this part is my amendment. So let's simplify it completely now. In this time when there's an extremely big problem, so-called The global economic crisis, which Serbia is waiting for on its knees, given that what we now have is not the effects of this crisis, but the effects of the government's incompetence, at that moment when our economy is completely at risk, especially the export economy, we are talking about slaughterhouses here, we read at least media and newspapers, and we see that every time there's a story about what's going on, what Serbia is doing to its slaughterhouses, and yet the consequence is that citizens are extremely expensive paying for meat. So we have an economic crisis on the one hand, an economy that is completely at risk, and the Serbian government wants to increase administrative fees for services that its services should do to exporters, which are and what a great chance Serbia is. At this point, I am talking about these meat, meat products, livestock and eggs for reproduction, which are extremely high possibilities for Serbia in that part. It's completely absurd and embarrassing. But on the other hand, it's understandable, because someone has to pay for what Serbia, or the Serbian government, wanted to touch the EU so-called. by unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement. The transitional agreement will also cost Serbia and its citizens. At this point we can measure it materially, but very quickly we will be able to measure it both politically and morally and in any other way. Now let's just look at a few facts and elements that support what I've touched a little bit. In the budget that was ahead of us, there is not a month, farmers' subsidies have been reduced by 15%. At the same time, the famous unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement opened Serbia's borders for EU agricultural products. So when it comes to our market, because they don't pay customs, they'll be much cheaper than our products. On the other hand, we can't know what kind of health security and the correctness of these products are, because what we know is that we have here, the most banal example, the Kinder eggs for the Western and Eastern markets, come to us by those that are for the Eastern market. Then we have a million little things, like soy buckshot, genetically modified material and stuff. What will Serbian citizens eat as a first question? The second question is that our budget in this case will remain shorter by 300m euros and that is certainly not a small figure, since these funds must in some way be in the budget, it will naturally pay again our economy and indirectly for citizens. What is interesting is I keep hearing that the priorities of the Serbian government are citizens of Serbia and on the other hand of the economy, these days we have had the opportunity to meet with the businessmen. What they received at the time as a return effect of the economy and how to discuss it, and once I will only report on this, because the government there could get very concrete what it is that these people who need to do something for the citizens of this country to keep their jobs. What's a fact, they're neither citizens, nor economy is a priority. What is a priority is the EU. We have freed the EU from customs on goods that it is bringing to Serbia. On the other hand, the EU has not freed Serbia from these Serbian producers, in part, with this trade. What can be concluded from this is that the Serbian government may actually not want to export meat products, fish, livestock to other areas except Serbia. This is very possible, since it could export all these products anywhere, to the EU or to any other market, all of these goods must also have very good certificates of health, quality and origin. I also spoke about the budget for a paradox called the status of veterinary services in all of this, and then I commented that during 2008, veterinary services, field workers practically protected Serbia's complete livestock fund from infectious diseases, of course, and Serbian citizens, because there are very many zoonoses being transferred from animals to humans. Of course, what they were doing at the time was prevention, since in the wind when an animal gets sick, treatment is often not possible in some diseases, so prevention is very important. But for the work of these field services, Serbia and the Serbian government owe the same service to 700m dinars, and for laboratories, various milk checks and similar debt to another 200m dinars. I also commented on the fact that at the time it was very obvious, it is now something we see, which is that this year in the budget, exactly for these tasks, the implementation of the animal health care programme is projected 60% of the funds compared to last year. So, of the 2.5 billion that was in 2008, this year 816 million is projected. You probably don't want to pay back those $700 million debts, so you predicted this would look like a budget. What can happen and what can happen? Simply, the issue of the production of safe food in Serbia, then the removal of slaughterhouse waste, the suppression and eradication of particularly dangerous infectious animal diseases, all of which will come into question, and we can hope that from the EU Commission, which is in Serbia these days, I think today 19, and which is composed of very high-level food safety professionals and which should be visited by several slaughter exporters, we will not get a good feedback, which means we will not be able to take a piece of meat to the EU or anywhere. Because without confirmation of the implementation of the programme of measures that the state must provide, the veterinary programmes measures, they will not speak any further. What's interesting is I can expect to get an answer that you actually wanted with this increase in taxis to pump up some funding so that it could work further, but what's my problem and what's the concern of all of us here on this side, when we're doing a little budget analysis, we see that those funds that may exist in the budget never go to the right side where they're needed, because right now I have information that Minister Dulic needs to go to Kenya with 11 of his associates, so I'm afraid that this means can happen exactly in that direction, because it's not a cheap trip from 12 people to Kenya and back. On the other hand, another interesting thing is the fact that you want to shut down services that care about food safety in Serbia. It's something that is suggested by many of the laboratories that control milk, because they say there are favored laboratories, from the ministry are coming up with instructions to provide samples to the laboratories, so that their solutions can have priority. Another thing that can happen very quickly in this way, when we destroy everything that is very valuable and valuable to us, and with what we can really go into the world, because there aren't many countries that livestock products and products of plant and war culture can offer in this way, that are healthy, correct and genetically unmodified, we will be in a situation to import meat and milk of very suspicious origin, which is a fact, because we already do. We had an opportunity to make sure that a large trade chain had a problem with suspicious meat from Argentina and Brazil. This dubious meat, without origin, without its clear origin, was sold at somewhat lower prices, at some so-called. actions over the weekend, but the thing was that it was first frozen meat, that there was meat that had no prominent origin. What is true is that these days an agreement has been reached with the IMF and that the IMF has approved 402.5m euros in funding, with the IMF's comment that the allowed deficit has been increased to 1.75% of the gross social product. What is true, Mrs Banovic said was the fact that these are not the means that can be spent at the moment, but are the funds on stand-by that can be withdrawn when necessary, it is true that these funds and how they should be and that these funds must come to the budget that has been drained by your unconscious work, because that unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement has put Serbia in a position to throw 300 million into the wind. This means that the government was unable to ensure the country's economic stability without borrowing. It's very simple. On the other hand, this borrowing, we have an opportunity to listen to our ministers keep sending us messages -- don't, citizens, hire, you won't be able to repay, it's irresponsible to be in charge in these times. Now we come to a situation where the state owes us, that we don't know how the state is going to pay back, and in fact we know, someone has to pay back, it's going to bring back citizens and businesses, which is loaded to the end, and that can hardly deal with all these taxes that they have to pay to the state. Of course, it's about the IMF's borrowed assets, but they have to be returned. There are no better days for Serbia, as long as this irresponsible government does not know it is doing its job and there are no better days for Serbia. I'm especially talking about agriculture, which is and how it's been threatened, that's been cramping for years and that's finally on its knees. We don't need our products, we come from the EU, they're so well packed, they're with nice colorful paper and bows, and so is this government. She's pro-European because she's wearing makeup, she's dressed up, she's got amazing propaganda, and there's nothing behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12654	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia of Orthodox religion, Christ came forward. Let me congratulate in my name and in your name many participants today who have been swimming for the honorable cross, especially those who have taken first place on the 15th, perhaps 20 races. I am using this opportunity to make arguments that would make it necessary to accept the amendment of my colleague, Milice Vojić-Markovic, but no offense, colleague, just to tell you, your amendment is a better amendment submitted by MP Verica Radet, because it proposes to delete Article 25, and therefore all these obligations that the Government has provided would not burden the citizens of Serbia. Also, the amendment tabled by counterpart Donka Banovic is fully acceptable for the SRS parliamentary group, as it envisions erasing the taxis that are scheduled for the issue of citizenship assurances. It may sound to you that the figure of 11.940 dinars is not that big, but I have to tell you what counterpart Donka Banovic told you is that a large number of Serbian citizens who have submitted neatly all the documentation related to the application, for the award of free shares. She's been doing a little bit of statistics, maybe every fifth citizen should put up with citizenship. Many citizens give up, and it costs, maybe it's different from place to place, from 480 to 600 dinars. Personally, I don't believe that everyone is giving up because they don't have 600 dinars to take the credentials and forward it to the Privatisation Agency, but many have lost confidence in the project, and it seems to me that they won't do it for that reason. The amendment submitted by Col. Milica Vojić-Markovic refers to fees relating to heading 66, to solutions for export licences for slaughterhouses and other facilities that meet the conditions for exportation of meat, products, raw materials and animal waste, as well as to solutions for establishing that export facilities meet the conditions for exporting fish, feathered livestock, for holding and eggs for fertilisation. We have heard here many times that a figure with a figure of about 300m euros, as much as the budget of the Republic of Serbia will receive less funds on the basis of a unilateral application of the trade agreement with EU member states. This is once observed, but the 300 million, which may be less customs-based revenue in 2009, will have much more lasting consequences. Namely, many agricultural producers will be motivated by further production or business of agricultural production and will lose one match, which is otherwise being run unfairly with EU member states, as there are greater premiums in EU member states and grants for agricultural production than in Serbia. We've seen that this year too, we've announced the abolition of premiums for some agricultural cultures. It seems to me, Madam Minister, that MP Milica Vojic-Markovic's request was not for a major reduction in the already planned taxis. They amount to around 1,280 dinars, but there is no will to meet the MPs from opposition political parties, but we are not looking for anything for ourselves. It is our duty and obligation to emulate this economic environment a little bit and make it easier for the citizens of Serbia, but you seem reluctant to do so. You alienate many of us from each other and there is no willingness to meet Serbian citizens in any segment. The fact is that you have provided a fee of 8.730 for borrowings without accepting the amendment of MP Milos Radulovic, who has proposed to reduce that amount to 3,500, to increase the amount for the transport of dangerous substances to 184,580 dinars. It indicates that what it has in mind to improve living standards, to open, perhaps, a small number of jobs, you don't seriously consider it. The fact that you have not accepted this amendment regarding the reduction of fees on borrowings suggests that you are not taking care of something that could contribute to the development of culture, science and many other things that would be the basis for a better life in Serbia. The word "indemnity" was undoubtedly created from the almost forgotten Serbian term "indebted" for the soul. Obligation in Serbia appeared at the very beginning of the creation of Serbian statehood, during the reign of Stefan Nemanja, the father of St. Sava, and King Stefan of the First World. The whole history of Serbia has been marked since the end of the 12th century to this day by large examples of employment. It was, we could say, some form of voluntary tax to God and to the people by those who had the most. It was once the privilege of kings, princes, great men, while it has recently become a noble goal fully available to people without noble title and aristocratic origin. The goal of human life is to acquire and multiply the capital of the Holy Spirit, St. Stefan Sarovski, that's what the soul merchants said. Those who were able to earn, but not spend, to gain without wasting, to take more than all others, I don't think they take from others than they are more resourceful, more valuable, more worked, to later share all that they acquired with the poorest and powerless, with those who needed it most. In their efforts and generosity, Serbia has actually been raised. They are its true builders and true heroes. That's why we're going to remember today, and today we're going to especially remind a few of them. Ilija Milosavljevic Kolarac, born in the early 19th century in Kolari, a village near Belgrade, with Tom Vukic Perisic, you can see what Tom and Vukic were like, founded the Help Fund for those who died for the country, in the beginning of 250 ducats, and later the fund certainly increased. Ilija Milosavljević Kolarac founded two funds. The first one was named for the rise of Serbian universities. The second, the Library Fund, which was awarded by writing book Cyrillic across Serbia, that is, in all Serbian areas. Today, there is one man and one political party who is extremely committed to the preservation of the interests of all Serbs wherever they live. It's not hard to tell which man it's about. It's Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj and that's the SRS. In his will, Kolarac wrote: "I want these orders to remain unchanged while the Serbs and Serbia are and that these orders cannot be changed by law or by government of the state or by anyone else. "Look what his last wish was, and what kind of relationship this government has to the employ. Vladimir Lackovic, a well-known Belgrade judge and the owner of a respected lawyer's office, and Mileva Lackovic, should certainly be mentioned. These are the bereaved parents, whose underage son died, so they founded a fund named after their son, and the fund concerned the collection of funds for the clothing of poor children, students who could not be educated, who attended high school and real estate in Belgrade. Then, Jovan Jovanovic, a village doctor retired from Vlasotinc. The Fund served the progress of science and art, for the education of doctors and lawyers. Misa Anastasijević, born in 1803 and lived until 1885, born from Poreč to Vienna. He helped the Society of Reading, National Theatre, Churches, Schools, and Poverty. Sima Andrejevic-Igumanov, born 1804 in Prizren. He's raised the Obsolescence School in Prizren. Nikola Kiki, born in 1841, raised today's hospital in Zvechanska. Alexa and Dimitria Krsmanovic traded with skin and plum. They exported the plum through Trieste to America. In the house of Krsmanovic on December 1st 1918, a large salon declared the unification of Serbian countries in the Kingdom of SHS. Velimir Viljev, Mihajlo Todorovic, assisted the Serbian army and theatre. The task he established was called "Velimirianum", and the first manager of the task was the President of the State Council, Nikola Pasic. Milan Kujundzic, Abardar, born on February 14th 1842 in Doricol. Every year, the study ended in other European cities. He was elected vice president of the National Assembly. He also had his own assignment. Nikola Čupic was the grandson of the famous Stojan Čupić, the Dragon of Nights, born in Sapac in 1836. He lived for a while. All the property, it was a substantial sum, he promised his country that it was used to publish moral and scientific books. What are we doing today? I'm a member of the Science and Technological Development Committee. There's no Professor Shami. When we considered the budget foreseen for this ministry, we saw it standing for building objects for people dealing with science, whether at universities or at institutes, thousands of dinars were foreseen. That's when we thought about what happened to the employee in Serbia? Instead of encouraging us to give certain reliefs to people who would be willing, it is not always the one who has the most, but the one who is noble and the one who wants it. We don't expect Delta. If they built one of the vaults, where the citizens of Belgrade or some other cities, while waiting for the buses to be preserved, would they be pleased. Not always do those who have the most, but those who are good and noble, and through these taxes we do not encourage, not initiate, we do not open up the possibility of competition. In this way, this is a good government, the government fails, but the next elections, which, whenever they are, where Serbian citizens will recognize who is best and who only wants to protect their interests, then in the right way and in this way, which we are talking about through our amendments and in the debates in principle, will lead Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12656	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12657	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting by amendment from Ms. Milice Vojic-Markovic for clarification. As regards this tax on tariff number 66, for a solution required to determine that the export slaughterhouse and other export facilities meet the conditions for exporting meat consignments, this refers to the examination carried out in determining these conditions. If such a facility is found to meet the conditions, this facility is granted an export licence and this tax is paid once, when such a situation is determined, the actual state of affairs, and it is not large, given that the facilities with export potential are multimillion. I do not agree with this amendment that this tax should be reduced because it provides for the possibility to obtain conditions with small money to export a huge quantity, an unlimited quantity of goods to the European Community or to markets for which licences are available. As for the EU commission you were talking about today in Serbia, yes, it is true, but it is in the milkers of Serbia, and the slaughterhouses they received in the previous year five export licences have acquired that certificate and acquired export rights without restrictions, with constant supervision. Therefore, such a type of authorisation, i.e. solutions are not issued multiple times, but only once, so that I do not think that this amendment should be accepted, given that it is essentially and financially not being resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12658	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25, Section A, heading 78, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, on the basis of article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, relating to Article 26. A bill of this law. Like most amendments by the SRS parliamentary group related to the bill, the amendment reads: "Article 26 is deleted. "The position of the SRS is that it is unacceptable to increase the republican administrative fees under conditions of the global economic crisis and the difficult social situation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 26. The bill says: "For the tax obligations that have been made and are not paid until the date of entry into force of this law, the tax is paid in accordance with the law which was in force at the time of the tax liability if it is more favourable for the debtor." The SRS amendment is not, of course, accepted. This government seems to show good will, since it allows bonds to settle tax obligations in accordance with the law that is more favourable to them. What irony by a government that calls itself socially responsible. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of this law, in addition to perfecting the way in which the obligations are paid, e.g. by electronic means, the need to comply with the subject-matter of a tax liability with the files and actions which are in the jurisdiction of the authorities for which the work of the Republic's administrative tax is paid, whether these are new tasks under the authority of the Authority, the alterations of the file and of the action, or the termination of the authority's competence to carry out individual files and actions for which the tax is now prescribed. A change in the level of tax liability for individual files is proposed in order to comply with the complexity and scope of the work of the authorities in relation to them, as a result of initiatives by the competent ministries and other bodies for which the work of the Republic's administrative tax is paid. Since it is clear that it is the fees for beliefs, solutions, certificates, copies and other acts that are necessary daily for many citizens of Serbia, amounting to 200, 300, 500 or several thousand dinars and are not so insignificant, it is possible that the government has not accepted this amendment that would disavow small funds from Serbian citizens. At the same time, the same government, you can say freely, tolerate, all in the spirit of European values, corruption, because Serbia is 85th in the world by the corruption perception index, together with Albania and Montenegro, and belongs to countries where corruption is represented in every social pores. In the spirit of the same values, Mr. Zivorad Kovacevic points out: "Corruption cannot be fought unless it is led by power". According to surveys showing "Transparens International", the main cause of corruption in Southeast Europe is the lack of development of a political apparatus and a lack of institutional strength of the state system. Is that the same system of civil servants that currently counts over 28,000? What lack of institutional strength is it then? How long does it take to have enough power to fight corruption? Given that the same source defines corruption as abuse of authority for personal benefit, imagine how much money the state would save if 28,000 officials were absolutely unsullied and still went to fight corruption. How many other civil servants should be employed to find a way to force 20,000 companies to pay workers to pay their salaries, if the budget says that tax payments will be 100%? How many experts should be further hired and paid to address the problems of so-called Serbian legislation. the related persons, so that the owners of the companies do not withdraw workers into the new firm, as they withdraw all capital from the previous one, in order to avoid the claims of employees, and then neither the state nor the workers can collect the debt, because the newly created firm is a particularly legal person and is not responsible for previous debts? How many State Secretarys, currently six, should have at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development in order to enable Baron Minhauzen to raise money for the thunderously promised 1,000 euros of free action, of which by the end of this year, only twenty citizens are smiled? Experts believe the Privatization Register will not promise 50 euros, but half as much. Branko Pavlovic, former director of the Privatisation Agency, explains that payments from the Privatization Register were postponed for the second quarter of 2009, as it is said to buy time to reach 25 euros. First they promised 100, and now 50, however, the theoretical maximum is only 34. If the payment were to happen in the first quarter of this year, they could not count to 17 euros, Pavlovic explained. Unlike Mladjan Dinkic, who can't blink to promise what he wants and what comes to mind, serious people, such as Daniel Cvetićan, an economist, do not want to comment on Dinkic's pre-election inventions. Of the 1,000 euros promised by the stock, I don't think we'll get more than 100. I am now concerned by his other promises, such as those of the Fiat, the Florist said just over two months ago. As we've seen lately, it's clear that these promises about Fiat will be virtually nothing. It is likely that all citizens of Serbia have already seen it, and therefore, according to the latest surveys, G17 would not have crossed the censorship if there were now elections. You can lie to people once or twice, but after that, even the global economic crisis can't justify any common list to save you. Who would, after all they've done and what not, put the younger one on the list? I guess nobody's going to the election yet. I think he's the only one who thinks that even after the action, even after Krrish and all his public companies with astronomical salaries will vote for his expert party, excuse me, even management. Or maybe the whole government approves of all that? Because while the government is still working on the rulebook and looking for the right solution to determine future salaries, the directors of public enterprises continue to receive the same salaries. In addition to salary levels, this regulation, which is in preparation, should specify both the height and principle of paying bonuses, the use of official cars, use of phones, cards and others, and given the extent to which it should be large, its preparation can take time, and for all that time, the money will be poured into the party registers of the ruling parties and the private pockets of their most reckless activists. You're wrong if you think activists are the only ones who make them cry and share flyers and flyers. These are more important to the parties. That's why it's probably gonna take a while to prepare this rulebook. Just because a few days ago the board of directors of the IMF approved Serbia's stand-by arrangement, which was agreed in November last year, although it seems favourable, actually means that there is nothing out of the pre-election promises of a better life, because such institutions do not provide non-binding advisory services, but it is certainly a binding agreement that implies that in the economic policy of our country for the coming year absolutely there must be no room for improving the standards of those who receive their belongings from the state register. Then who's gonna live better? Despite all indications that citizens will live in 2009, the government has not accepted the amendments of the SRS parliamentary group and thus tried to reduce the expenditure for the citizens, but, of course, is thinking only about itself. Now that there is really no room for unrealistic promises anymore, because voters have lost confidence, the global economic crisis is welcome to the Serbian government as an excellent excuse for all problems and mistakes. I guess that's why we got the impression that most of the ministers were happy, like they forgot to follow the elections sooner or later, and the question is whether they'll be able to fool the people again or not. After all, they will not be helped by any money from the state or from the party registers. Just imagine that they could have thought of the following: these days you can follow in the press proposals to select the best entrepreneur in Serbia in 2008, which organises "Blic", in co-operation with the Bank of Inteza. As criteria for selecting an expert jury, it states: profitability, productivity, liquidity, export potential, the number of newly employed during the year, the range of newly placed products, the introduction of technological innovations, the orientation to environmental protection and the contribution to the local community. Not wanting to diminish the expertise of that jury, and not to discourage this year's candidates, I am taking this opportunity to remind myself that last year this award was won by the company "Paula Shoes" from Bela Palanca. All of this would be normal if the owner of the "Paul Obja", with a reward of 30,000 euros, had not received the obligation to invest money in a pre-election campaign for the 2008 presidential elections. Assigned directly from the top of the DS, the award served to split packages and buy votes in the small White Palanca, otherwise a place with the lowest average salary in Serbia. For "Paul shoes" many Palancan women, I mentioned it here and before, they worked in garages, in basements and in impossible conditions. They were not paid social or pension insurance, at the same cost of sewing shoes, sandals and boots, they can make between 10 and 20 thousand dinars, they don't have hours, and when it comes to deadlines, they work day and night. If you ask why, I'll answer you very simply -- because it's the only way that in this town, where nothing of the economy does, at least earns something to educate and feed their children. Of the shoe companies, there are over 40 registered, and the state has allowed the bosses to do whatever they want and do, all in favor of their own and their own in power. I simply get the impression that the government is doing nothing but come up with ways to transfer the money from the state register to its people, which will allow them to remain in power until they come up with another scam, as these are mentioned in advance. But there are voices that are never and will never be for sale. As much as the councilman was conquering the DS in this little town, she was never in normal power. From 2000 to today, five times they've torn down power by buying councilmen and imposed temporary measures. And what local authorities could do, there are always Democrats to make it impossible for them to make it impossible, through their own in Belgrade, to prevent any investment, which they can influence, from coming into this small town. The temporary authorities used to deploy their directors, even if they did do their duty, who in a few months shared solutions with their party activists, so the next government should see what they would do. They've never thought about citizens, they've let down all the privatisations, companies that used to feed the Belopalans. They let the agriculture freeze, shut down the villages, and they're still thinking about how to disable those who, by the will of the citizens, came to power. We know that the power of God does not beg, but the citizens are here to assess. It's just that if it keeps going like this, I don't know what's gonna stay for that next power and what's she gonna be able to do in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12660	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to this bill and in my discussion just now I said that I would, of course, through the next discussion to deal with another or two tariffs in this law. But before that, Madam Minister, I would like to take the opportunity to appeal once again to you to accept Mr Milos Radulovic's amendment, which refers to the collection of that transport, or the passage of nuclear matter through the Republic of Serbia. It's not at all naive and unacceptable. If you are afraid of the money you would collect on that basis, or through the proposal that Mr. Radulovic predicted through this fee, I will give you one rational way or a proposal to spend it. In NATO, the aggression of your EU friends in the area of the Pcinj County, from which only two or three locations were shot at around 3,500 thousand grains with the impoverished uranium. Translated in kilograms or tonnes, it is about 1,500 kilograms or tonnes and by poored uranium, for which it will take about a hundred or thousands of years, so if the state showed its responsibility, it could deal with it through certain measures, given that these facts have changed the health records of southern Serbia and the Pcinj County, from which I repeat, I come. As far as this law is concerned, I'd like to mention two more tax tariffs here, which are tariffs 136 and 188. The fact is, they're not exactly about my amendment in a direct context, but certainly some conclusions of your relationship can be drawn from all of this, not yours, but the government's regarding the amendments and the opposition's relationship to this law. This heading 136 refers to writings and actions in the fields of geology, mining and energy. There's an illusion that this entire tariff number is high. If you take and look at the figures they move in the amount of about 3,000 dinars, and the largest is 160,000 dinars. It is for the issue of mining work licenses and for the exercise of expert supervision of mining works. The fact is, this tax is big, but basically it's just an illusion. These are large and serious profitable jobs in which those who opt to explore exploitation in this area almost all obligations in this exploitation period, i.e. the research period, are reduced to these taxes. For this same period of exploitation, i.e. research to prepare, use our infrastructure, certain local units, or the territory of certain municipalities, and amortize them and use them, and when the municipality tries in some way to achieve some income, they say very well, excuse me, but we have settled our obligations to this country through a tax which is a Republic administrative tax and which is defined in one of these taxis in this tariff number 136. These companies have no objective obligation to the local community except for the one the state imposes. However, there are those who are serious and responsible. Experiences are different. I come from a municipality whose territory is being explored and explored, and this is an Australian-Canadian corporation, which certainly fortunately in our previous term of local self-government had an exceptional relationship with local leadership and showed one great corporate and social responsibility. In fact, we have managed to implement together many projects, a project in the field of social story, education, for primary and secondary schools, for kindergartens. However, it was their goodwill, certainly not an obligation imposed by the state or the municipality, and unfortunately such is few. I think that here you should have been a little more serious, more responsible and more thorough, to take a good look at the level, or the height of these taxis to protect the interest of the state, or local environments through the interest of the state. Of course, there is this heading 188, Madam Minister, which applies to the issue of approval for detailed groundwater research. Here you could and wouldn't have been wrong to raise the nominal sums of all the taxis multiplely. These amounts are from 20,000 to 60,000, depending on the amount of water, or on the type of water, whether it is ordinary or mineral. These are extremely profitable jobs, and whoever deals with them, you're going to give me the freedom to express myself, I don't need to be spared. I think that through a rigorous relationship with them you certainly protect the interests of citizens in the territory of the municipality where these resources are exploited, or where they are used, or where those who enter the interrogation process want to exploit, sell and earn them. That's where you should have considered, they didn't tell you, Madam Minister, they're particularly important groundwater, because they're not how many times more important than surface water. The surface captages are disappearing, the underground captages are expanding by their structure, increasing. It is one sure, constant or, as you Europeans like to say, a sustainable resource, or source of income. You shouldn't have been modest when it comes to these taxes, here you could double and triple the fees to define, for those who were obliged to pay them, it wasn't a problem, and certainly those who would benefit from that money would benefit, that's what they felt. There is also a problem here that the state does not have a legislatively resolved substance to be charged on behalf of using these resources from local self-government territory, or there is no legislative matter resolved or no solution to application, and then the government decides on regulations, which is wrong and wrong. These regulations also have no basis in certain laws, so the funds you collect and take into the budget under the regulations, under the laws that define that part of these funds is returned to local self-government, of course you do not return. Not you personally, but your government or government before you, you don't return it to local self-government, and you know it in numbers what it looks like. For example, for 2008 transfers from the republican level of government to local government in the municipality of Surdulica, from which I came, was 96 million. The services calculated, on behalf of water exploitation as electricity and as commercial potential in the water factory, the municipality of Surdulica needed from the state only on those two grounds to obtain over 100 million dinars. Without looking back at all those other revenues that the state needs to get from the local level to pick up. Let it be some parameters or rappers to you in the future, if you have now defined yourself to make these mistakes, not to make these mistakes in the future, and to give us who come from the periphery a chance to put what belongs to us and to keep it in the function of those local environments in one rational and adequate way. You as a government protect economic and national interests through these files and through these acts that you are authorized to propose and adopt. Since we're bringing the story to an end, on behalf of the SRS, I will bring both my discussion and our discussion tonight to an end. As much as, Madam Minister, this law seems irrelevant and banal, the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, I don't think it is. The government, by its attitude to this law and by these tariffs, has shown its expression of the banal political concept to be guided and managed. I believe, too, Madam Minister, that this is not how we will respond to all the challenges in 2009. You have in one indirect way given the right to all criticisms that have come to the burden of this majority and this law by the SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12662	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, then we have completed a search of the bill in particular. Do the proposing representatives want to give the final word? Yeah. ) There is a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12663	I'm really gonna be brief. I'll use the time after the other laws that represent the tax code package with the budget. I'll look only at what's most disturbing to me somewhere as an objection from the opposition MPs. We are doing everything contrary to what Europe is doing, there was one position of SRS MPs. In Europe, they say, tax rates are falling, public works are stimulated, and we are doing everything the opposite. You may have also noticed that there are no rules when the tax rate goes down. If the UK, for example, is reducing the VAT rate, that doesn't mean that everyone else has taken those steps. For me, it is extremely interesting that some MPs are being pawned to reduce those rates that are clearly lower than in most countries, and to keep, say, high customs rates. So VAT rates are low in Serbia compared to most countries in Europe, not the EU but Europe, the rate of income tax, the rate of profit tax. On the other hand, customs rates, weighted customs rates between 20% and 30%. Would you perhaps wonder what we have achieved by maintaining high customs rates for many years? Who did we protect? What industry did we create with high customs rates? In general, the empirical experience has shown that exactly those branches and those companies that were most protected have not justified their investments. I'm asking you, what customs rate, for example, would a foreign exchange rate of our flag make a good product? You agree that it's very difficult to answer that question. I don't know that course that would actually make a good export product out of Fiat, our flag. So the customs rates in Serbia are high, better to reduce what is high than to reduce what is relatively low. Also, although other laws are at stake, I would not say that there are still some tax rates that we have either abolished or reduced by this package, but for the citizens of Serbia, because the profits are already low relative to the environment. The right measure is to compare the tax burden in 2009 to, say, 2008 and 2007, it was reduced by one percentage point. So, definitely, tax rates are down. Also, there is another tendency in the world. I don't like the Republic Tax Act either because it's not controlled by the Ministry of Finance. Different ministries have their own ideas that taxes should be increased, which should be reduced, are related to the cost of providing services, etc. The fact is, in the world, the tax burdens are being reduced essentially, and the non-tax burden is growing. We have the participation of these taxis in the social product below average. For example, it should be 7% of gross social product, if we want it to be average, we have about 5%. So there's space, there may be some mistakes, changes, but there's definitely room to increase. Someone said the subsidies were lifted. It has nothing to do with the Republic Tax Act, but I would still look back at a few numbers. How many subsidies are really foreseen by the Budget Law? Pure subsidies, what's called subsidies, are 40 billion dinars. There are other forms of subsidies, through the so-called soft or soft loans, which amount to about 10 billion, 7 billion transition funds, and all together subsidies in different kinds, 58 billion or over 2% of the social product. It is definitely high compared to any other country in the region. You can check that out. What's subsidizing? Only three things: agriculture, railways and research and development. Unfortunately, there is no subsidisation of research and development. The subsidies in agriculture and the railways are, I say, the largest. I admit this year, but I'm saying temporarily, the subsidies in agriculture have been reduced. By the way, theoretically again, subsidies aren't good solutions, because they make bad business. By the way, I'd like to mention that I'm about to think of a really good law on state aid before this House, and then we'll be able to discuss much more about state aid forms. I see Stiglitz here is the favorite reading. Let me tell you one truth about the Nobel laureate. You know, he made a pension at the IMF. I don't think it's very nice when you leave and earn a pretty good pension to criticize that institution. There's something else I want to say. Stiglitz isn't the only Nobel laureate. There are a lot of Nobel laureates, and you always quote only him. So, Stiglitz isn't a holy letter, for one, there's still so many good ones. The fact is, the market isn't ideal, and it's not ideal for the state either. So the truth is somewhere in the middle. I'd also take this opportunity to give a few answers, actually that's more information. You often call me for control at the Public Enterprise "Aerodrom" Belgrade. So the control's over when I said it, 31. 12. In 2008. After the checkup, I'd like to say, I'm not exactly valid when it comes to the procedure, but it has to be written down. The record was written and it was finished, according to my service, on January 13, 2009. Then again, there is a procedure where that record is sent to the public company that eventually answers some questions, perhaps we can accept some of these arguments. All in all, be a little more patient. The record is finished, it's a record of budget inspection control in a public enterprise. So that's seven to 10 days at the most. After that, there will be no record before parliament, but information about the control carried out. Regarding the control of expenditures at the Ministry of Defence, the audit team entered the Ministry of Defence on January 12th, which is information, the period of October 2007 will be analysed. The IMF programme is also mentioned. I really don't know that. I'll take the stenographic notes and I'll look into what you asked, so I'll give you information, I'll have opportunities, we'll hang out yet, but I really don't know, I didn't plan those expenses, and if I were aware, I have to admit it. The IMF programme, it's a loan that doesn't actually take over the state or the Ministry of Finance, so the government, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is a special type of programme. The National Bank of Serbia is practically in debt. It is not used to fill the budget gap, but to maintain macroeconomic stability, which in our terms means supporting foreign reserves to stabilise the course. Because in a conversation with businessmen, about all the businessmen were dissatisfied with the great fluctuations of the exchange rate. So this loan is strictly dedicated, the IMF doesn't approve of loans to fill any budget gaps. It's a loan that is essentially a foreign reserve support to essentially stabilise the exchange rate. For now, so much and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12664	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12665	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, if you remember, and last time I spoke to you after you were in this House, I went out for this pay phone after you spoke to the MPs with one, so to speak, with opinion and attitude, or with advice, how we are experiencing your performance here in parliament. So what the minister should do is answer specifically the questions the MPs asked during the debate, or say, we could accept so many amendments, we couldn't accept these and those reasons, etc. You give us lectures all the time. Maybe you're a teacher somewhere in some private college, I don't know? You're not. You can be. Believe me, you'd make a great professor, but it's not appropriate for you to give lectures to MPs. Secondly, you need to know what the budget inspection record is, it's your job. In that record, in addition to finding the situation and all that has been found tax-based, an opinion is given and a warrant is given to what must be done within what time. It stands and there's nothing left to send to the budget user to answer something. What you needed here to answer specifically is the question we asked you, which is not of interest to you - how did Rasim Ljajic get the money, his ministry, to promise a reward for the arrest of Mladic and Hadzic? You can't answer that question. Now come out for this pay phone as finance minister so tell us, that's what we expect from you, not to give us lectures from which literature we educate ourselves, what websites we visit, whether Stiglic is the only Nobel Prizeor or not. Excuse me, there are people here who, at least half of them, are as educated as you are. It's not nice to humiliate them like that. If you want some debate, we can do that debate somewhere else, but not from this place, without a cynical smile, with respect for the MPs, because they've shown great respect for you. This on behalf of my colleagues, and I think I've shared their opinion on your performance here in parliament, most certainly, I'm looking for concrete answers to future MPs, and if we want to know more from you, we can also announce ourselves to you at the Ministry. I believe you'll see us and we can talk about any problem we're interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-19-0.u12666	National MPs, you did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured. Since I listened carefully to both you and Minister Diana Dragutinovic, the question you resented not answering, you will see from your insight into the stenogram that she answered - that she does not know the answer to that question and that she did not approve of it, she certainly did not knowingly approve, and that the answer to the question asked several times would be delivered. As regards the procedure for the audit, or budgetary inspection, the minutes shall be sent to the budgetary user after it has been made, followed by the procedure you spoke of. So, a little more careful to listen to each other - all right. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. For today we are finishing work and continuing work on Wednesday 21 January 2009 at 10.00 hours - continuing the search in particular on the remaining points of the session agenda. Thank you.
