ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30243	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that it is in the hall of 89 MPs, and that we have the conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure for the course of today's work. I remind all MPs that the Rules of Procedure have been established on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before we move on to further work, we hold a debate under Article 235(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The position of Article 235 states that the request for information and explanations is based on Article 235. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind you that it reads: “The MP has the right to ask for information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which they are,” he refers to the MP, “needed for the exercise of the function of the MP, except for the session of the National Assembly. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly, orally, in one address for up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. “ I inform you that the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica has authorised the MP Vladimir Milentijevic to participate in this work and that the Serbian Radical Party Group has authorised the National MP Paja Momcilov to participate in this work. I ask the MPs who wish to use their right under Article 235 to apply. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30244	Madam President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, counting on today, remained three days until November 15th, for when Cypriot secessionists and separatists issued local elections in the southern Serbian province. Since UNMIK's arrival, these are the fifth local elections scheduled in Kosovo and Metohija. I note that the previous four have been called by temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. UNMIK. As much as there was a dilemma and a division of whether these elections should be held or not, these elections scheduled for November 15th and the division should not be. After the self-proclaimed independent state of Kosovo, respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Republika Srpska Assembly annulled all acts of self-proclaim and later called and held parliamentary and local elections in the southern Serbian province. Who now comes to the idea of going to elections and creating parallel institutions for the local self-government of the Republic of Serbia? It must be clear to all of us that the elections bring to life the Cypriot secessionists and separatists, and by not going out deeply, their intention and the creation of an independent Kosovo. This high house, the Serbian Parliament, has not been allowed to discuss Kosovo and Metohija since its establishment, nor on the topic of Serb participation in the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija. The Republika Srpska Assembly, as the largest and strongest institution in the Republic of Serbia, has no position and invitation for Serbs to come out or not to the local elections. The position and message to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija that local elections should not be addressed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, individual ministers and state secretaries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The message of all is the same content -- there are no conditions for Serbs to go to the November 15th local elections in Kosovo and Metohija. The Sinode of the Serbian Orthodox Church also called for local elections in Kosovo and Metohija not to come out. We Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija believe that the message of the most important institutions of the Republic of Serbia is not clear, is not convincing enough, and we are not even sure that it is sincere enough. A particularly small contribution has been made to the media, which devote more space to individuals from NGOs who are to vote, than to the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia who have called on Serbs not to go to these elections. For example, Tuesday was held a session of the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, when a single decision and invitation were made to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija not to respond to the upcoming local elections in Kosovo and Metohija organised by secessionists and separatists in the province's territory. I ask the question to the President of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija: do you intend to, with the already called invitation not to go out in the elections, to make clear enough, convincing and honest arguments in the remaining short time, using the media that are following you, there are plenty of them, which is why Serbs should not go to the elections in Kosovo and Metohija scheduled for 15 November.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30245	Five minutes. Thank you. The People's MP Vladan Batic has the word, followed by MP Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a question for the Prime Minister, Minister of Economy and Regional Development and Minister of Finance. It concerns the status and position of 40 of the most underdeveloped municipalities. Yesterday there was one meeting here in the National Assembly, which seems to me, has not come across enough understanding and adequate reception. Turns out no one cares about municipalities that make up one-third of Serbia's territory. These are mostly border, border municipalities, mostly far from Belgrade. It turns out through that people: “Out of sight, far from the heart. ” What exactly is this about? The presidents of these municipalities asked the economy and regional development minister and launched an initiative to return transfer funds that have been reduced by these municipalities since May of this year. They have a lot of problems, a significant drop in revenue in 2009, caused primarily by the reduction in these non-intentional transfers for this year, but in some municipalities and the fall in income based on the original and allocated revenues. They also have a lot of problems with service obligations, with the accumulation of heating debts for budget users, for electricity, for current material costs, for the transport of employees in schools, for social contributions, debts to performers, etc. These people, who have indeed become citizens of the second order, have been seeking admissions to the finance minister for six months. Why is there a minister? He's about to hear problems, face the situation, try to solve the problem. This isn't a whim, this isn't a luxury, this is an emergency. This issue goes beyond policy, because in these municipalities, the presidents of municipalities are from different political options and political parties. The issue is not even national, as many of these municipalities have a mixed national structure. It's not even an economic question, it's a question of survival, a question of existence, a question of survival. In September, they asked for a reception with the Prime Minister and at least what the prime minister and ministers could do is to listen to them. When you walk in southern Serbia, on the territory of the municipalities of Kursumli, Prokuplje, Žitoraj, Lebane, Bojnik, Babusnica, Bela Palanka, that is grief. That's where Serbia slowly disappears, disappears, apparently all of us. You have villages where no one lives anymore. You have cities that look like scenes in some movies. In Lebanon, no company works. It's a similar situation in Kursumlia. That's where people take cigarettes to pieces, and apples take them to pieces. As they say, everyone goes to the grocery stores and signs on the cartoons. That's where life stopped. This is Europe of the 21st century, we're on the verge of joining the EU, we want a normal life, we don't want these people living the lives of second-class citizens. The state needs to take care of them. I suggested several times from this pay phone to move some state institutions there, because Belgrade is defending itself from both Kursumlia and Leban, and from Žitoradje, from Trgovište, from the Plandište, etc. We do not need Serbia to turn into Belgrade's pasture. We have to deal with the fate of all these people, that beautiful part of Serbia that slowly disappears and disappears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30247	The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30248	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, I have a question for Honorable Minister Dr Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education. In fact, several universities and universities have been waiting for accreditation for their work for two years. In the last year, the Higher Education Council has formed a Commission for Accreditation and Training of University and Colleges, but it is not working. It basically means that six or seven universities and colleges are waiting to start working. Because this commission doesn't work they can't start with their work. I therefore ask the Minister: when will it activate the Commission, when will the Commission start to work, work and in this sense enable the work of newly formed universities and universities? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30249	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, in front of the SRS, I would like to refer a question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and address this issue as prime minister. In fact, everyone knows that yesterday, completely justified for medical reasons, an epidemic of flu has been declared. At the very beginning, I would like to appeal to the public and to the citizens, in front of the Committee and in front of all SRS MPs, to accept the measures proposed by the ministry to prevent a major disaster. However, what am I going to ask in particular? I'm referring to three clear questions. First of all, why wasn't there an open tender during the purchase of the flu epidemic vaccine? There was enough time to go to an open tender; long ago experts warned, a commission that followed the situation kept under control the whole time situation and could be offered nicely, and it is known that in the world twenty companies are engaged in producing this vaccine. The second question, in particular: why is no bid requested from the Institute of Torlak? It is a well-known thing to leave aside that Torlak is one of the bright points of the medical system and the state of Serbia... Since 1926, he has been a carrier of the fight against infectious diseases, involved in the production of vaccines. He is the only one in this country who has the World Health Organisation's license for storage, distribution, and could have, in a timely manner, been lucky and invested to produce the vaccine today. It is also known that Torlak appeared in all other tenders when there were needs for other vaccines, from other producers. The third thing, which is absolutely famous, Torlak has an exceptional co-operation with top vaccine manufacturers in the world, I specifically cite the example of Avensis. The third question is: why is an unfavourable procurement of Novartis vaccines despite the offered cheaper and more quality Chinese manufacturer's vaccine? It is known that yesterday the Committee was made clear by the director of the Torlak Institute, that the vaccine with the least complications of the split, broken, dead vaccine, without additives. A vaccine like that was offered by a Chinese company via Torlak. What was given as an explanation? That it's a respected law. What law? Apparently, there's no bank guarantee. Why isn't she here? Why don't the state guarantee the health of its citizens, I don't understand? Secondly, there is no confirmation of the European Medicines Agency. Let me just warn you: Serbian citizens are being treated with Galenika medicines, we take them every day. None of these medicines have the European Medicines Agency's confirmation, but they have Serbian laws, so the medicine can be applied. The only Agency for Medicinal Products of the Republic of Serbia, which we have established here in the Assembly, is the Law on Medicinal Products, authorized to release the drug into circulation. It is not authorised under the positive laws of Serbia, the European Medicines Agency. Of course, no one has a problem with having something like that. So what was said yesterday, and what is quite clear, the firm Jugochemy, which has emerged and which is the only bidder in this situation... The question arises whether in any way someone in that company is connected to the people who have decided. The director of the Fund, who is the main carrier of this, came from Delta. What you already know from the newspapers, in "Economist" almost wrote, says – for "Yugochemija" is about one interesting thing: the longtime director was Jovan Mileusnic; now he is retired, one of his daughters, Smiljka Mileusnic is the director, and Milka Forcan is the chairman of this company's Management Board. Was "Yugochemia" a donor, Mr Batic spoke of it? I'm reading "Today", I'm guessing "Today" isn't a yellow print. If that's not true, I assume they'll appeal and sue the court for this list. It's like this: (President: five minutes. I'm finishing my sentence, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30251	The argumentation from the press won't help explain the question. The question has been asked. Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30252	The Honorable Presidency of the National Assembly, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, ask the leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to respect its powers and its commitment to me as a national MP, according to the National Assembly and to the citizens of Serbia. Given my work so far in asking questions and asking for notice, I think, Madam Chairman, I don't need to assure you that I won't give up. I ask, how is it possible that four people in the closest environment of Boris Tadic in four years were receiving five hundred million euros? I'm not giving up this question until I get an answer. So I'm asking you now: what are you going to do about these questions that were asked more than 30 days ago, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it's time for me to get an answer to the question 30 days ago? To remind the citizens who are watching this transmission, I have no dispute if the companies, i.e. the owners of these companies, have made such money by operating successfully and by law; I am interested in the part where they did business with public enterprises, especially Telecom. It is the company that increased the price of services to the citizens by 63% last year, while at the same time showing profits of several tens of millions of euros. This in my case raises the suspicion that this increase in prices, that the money of the citizens has been poured into someone's private pockets. For those of you who listen to this for the first time – everything I'm saying is on the Agency for Economic Registers website. What I'm saying is not a political pamphlet as a means of political struggle. So, the Agency for Business Registers, the official state site, the official state agency, and anyone who opens this website can see this data. One of these experts, who has 11 employees, Mr. Srdjan Shaper, has been placed in one daily list among the 102 largest Serbs in history, that these same citizens who have been robbed vote. So I'm asking the leadership of the Assembly when will I get an answer to these questions? If I get an answer to these questions, all of us MPs, and we conclude that these people have been legally doing business, I have also proposed to the Prime Minister Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, who here said he knows the answer to these questions, but that he will not answer, that these people come here and schedule a special session, especially this Srdjan Saper and this Krstic, adviser to President Tadic, and hold a lecture on the economic crisis and Prime Minister Cvetkovic and all businessmen in this country, as money is earned with 11 employees. In that case, we wouldn't have to beg the Russians or the Americans or the IMF. Why doesn't the government build an agency with 11 employees and make that kind of money? And all this time, in the year that's the most native in Serbia and when so many people are hungry. Next, I want to add this to my question. I don't know how many televisions with national frequencies and everyone ignores what I've been asking as a question for 30 days and a few days, let private televisions serve honor and their journalistic morality, but I have to say this to the public service. I doubt the Public Service, or Director of the Public Service, is in contact with these people. I ask the public service to answer me publicly, and to the citizens of Serbia, because we represent the citizens of Serbia, who pay for the TV subscription, on which basis is the rental of advertising space for marketing, for advertising at the Public Service, on which basis is the "48 hours wedding" show? Does the public service have anything to do with these people I've been apostropheing here for 35 days? I must tell you, dear colleagues, that among us is a fellow MP who is the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Clinical Centre and 35 days here to remain silent. On the website of these companies, and private, as a client is listed also the Clinical Center. I'd like to know if there's been a violation of the law on the advertising of medical services and what is the basis for the Clinical Center to deal with these people? Just to remind you, the Director of the Clinical Center is Mr. Bajec, chairman of the Committee on Health of the Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30253	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30254	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the Government to inform the public of all that has been taken and agreed on in relation to the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities. Namely, that responsibility for negligence would not fall to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or the Government, if there is no reason, I want you to inform the public that the presidents of the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia had a meeting at the finance ministry on October 28th and that the government then proposed that special funds be allocated to these municipalities. The presidents of these municipalities informed the MPs of the Committee on Local Self-Government that they were waiting for today's decision to find out whether, on the basis of the agreement reached on 28 October, the government had done what was agreed at the time, and that there was no need to hold a meeting yesterday. I ask the Government to inform us, the Committee and the public after today's session whether the agreement reached with the presidents of these 40 municipalities has been respected, whether the Government has made a decision to assist these municipalities in the coming years with additional funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30255	Do any of the other MPs, presidents, vice presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups want to exercise their right under Article 235(2)? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the next Members of Parliament... National MP Jovan Palalic signed up. On what grounds? (Jovan Palalic, from the post: As Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government. ) National MP, I refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the work of Article 235. Your parliamentary group has authorized MP Vladimir Milentijevic to use his right under Article 235. When we work on the basis of Article 235, there is no wording of the measure of violations of the Rules of Procedure, nor of replicas, and I ask you together to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure because it is best for everyone. So, I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Milica Radovic and Tomislav Nikolic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the representative of promoter Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, called for the meeting to be attended by Nebojsa Ciric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Luka Andric, adviser to the Minister of Economy and Regional Development. We move on to a joint principled search of the 25th and 26th points of the agenda – Proposal for a SCHEDGEMENT LAW and a proposal for an amendment to the Law on the AGENCY FOR THE LICENCE OF ADMINISTRATIVES (continuation) According to the application for a word in the joint principled search, the word is by MP Kenan Hajdarevic, followed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Kenan Hajdarevic, just to let you know that the business obligation to set a break during today's working day will be fulfilled when we conclude the debate in principle at paragraphs 25 and 26 and according to the statements of the MPs for the word. MP Kenan Hajdarevic... National MP Jovan Palalic, you want a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30256	Infringement of Article 104 — dignity of the National Assembly. As chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I have appointed a committee and has neatly informed all members of the Committee and 40 presidents of the most underdeveloped municipalities. An hour before the start of the Committee, MEPs from the ZES Group inform me that they do not want to attend the Committee's sessions, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is allegedly going to solve the problem of representatives of the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities. Those people are on their way. They were representatives from Presevo, Bosilegrad, Lebanese, Major and came to the Committee meeting and wondered why there were no MPs. I think that's a harsh violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, because you can't... This is the second time – a session of the Committee on Local Self-Government is scheduled to discuss the financing of municipalities, and representatives of the ZES Group 15 minutes or an hour before informing the Committee on Local Self-Government that they do not want to come. Please, as chairman now, and President of the National Assembly, to simply edit the way the working bodies function and that representatives of the ruling coalition come to the Committee meetings, especially when this is an important topic. People said yesterday they were asking for five months to be received by Diana Dragutinovic. She doesn't want to take them. He doesn't want the Prime Minister to see them. Their municipalities are in front of bankruptcy, and they want to hear the National Assembly, they want to hear the MPs of the National Assembly, as the last place they can ask for help. I ask that the next time the Committee meetings are scheduled, and I hear there are problems in other committees, representatives of the ruling coalition come and at least respect those people who have crossed a thousand kilometers to hold a session of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30257	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. Every president of the working body is obliged to take care of the work of the body he is chairing. If you're going to say... (John Palalic, from the place:...) punish me. Please don't throw it away. You gave the measure, or you got the word to say that the Rules of Procedure had been injured. I'm obliged to give you an explanation, if I consider it and I know it isn't. The President of each working body, the Committee of the National Assembly, is obliged to care for the work of that body, as well as the President of the National Assembly for the National Assembly in general or any of us chairing any session in general. If you have difficulty in doing this job, then the President is at your disposal, according to your business obligations, and of course each of us chairmans, both in holding sessions and in carrying out the necessary consultations to ensure that the Committee's work takes place uninterrupted. As for your claim of an unsustained meeting, I remind you that it was just said that the meeting with Minister Diana Dragutinovic was on October 28th. I refer you to a stenogram of a session at which Minister Diana Dragutinovic was authorised as a representative of the government, where she said she held a meeting, that she did not attend the entire meeting during the meeting, but there was a meeting. Please, don't expose your lies to the public. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30258	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to say that it is not right to accuse someone of deliberately obstructing the work of congregation bodies. That's just not true. It's about that, I tried to explain, that we were informed by the president of the Committee that they were having a conversation at the Ministry and that they were waiting for today's cabinet session, and that there was no need to hold that session yesterday, that we should wait for today's cabinet session. It is not at all the best intention of the Committee president to call on the Committee on a very important topic, to invite the presidents of the municipalities, to discuss the subject and that the Assembly should support these municipalities in trying to find a solution to their really serious problems, I would like to say that it is the fact that there are problems in the work of the Committee, among other things, and that the committees are sometimes convened day after day, without making prior arrangements. You know that many MPs have other obligations and that we on all committees have a very, how can I say, serious job to ensure that people come and participate in the work of the board, because they have other obligations. To accuse someone of deliberately obstructing, I don't think it's correct at least. What I'm saying is that we have situations where the presidents of individual committees are calling an hour ahead committee without trying to check whether there are any... The ones you tried to protect and justify why some committees weren't held, therefore, to them, not to you. I didn't mean you. It is that if the topic is important and if it is important that the committee session is held, then the president is obliged to ensure, together with the services, that it happens when MPs can do so, because you know that we here do not have the only job that is related to committees, that MPs are often in delegations, that they are absent and that they are sometimes in some local environments. Just please, in the best interest of ensuring the effective and good work of the board, respecting your intention to talk about a very important topic on that committee, that we are simply simply talking about what the facts are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30259	National MP Jovan Palalic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Before you, MP Vladan Batic. You'll both get your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30260	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I absolutely believe in Mrs. Hope Kolundgia's good intentions, as well as your good intentions, but by the circumstances, I started this topic, so I took this as some kind of an allusion or a denial in relation to what I was saying. First, Madam Chairman, on October 28th, a meeting was held at the finance ministry with the presidents of the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities, but Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic was not attending the meeting. They've been asking for a meeting with her for six months. He was the secretary of state, there were other advisors and associates, but not the minister. That's one thing. The second point concerns Mrs Nada Kolundzhija's good intentions, but yet it is not an accurate interpretation – no agreement has been reached at the meeting between the finance ministry and the president of the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities. So there's no deal. The finance ministry said it would give its proposal to the government, but it is a proposal from one ministry, not a joint agreement between the ministry and representatives of the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities. I don't rule out the possibility of the government making a decision that they will be satisfied with, but no deal has been reached. Well, they wouldn't have come yesterday if a deal had been made, would they? It's elemental logic. So, those people are asking that non-purpose 2009 transfers, which were projected for 2009, at the beginning of the year, be abolished in May of the month, that they keep it, because these are significant funds. What the hell is... (President: Two minutes. For God's sake, Crassy, take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30261	People's MP, you've been given the right under Article 100(1) to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Neither did you explain the injury, nor did you quote which member was injured. People's MP, in order to get a replica, I have to give you a replica, and you didn't get a replica. You have been given the right to a word based on Article 100(1). We all have a duty to respect what article 100 says when we get the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it is in everyone's best interest not to harm the Rules of Procedure, as it is in everyone's interest not to abuse the right to speak. You have no right to a replica. National MP Jovan Palalic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30262	I was misread in the presentation of Mrs. Hope Kolundgia...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30263	People's MP, misreading is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It was nine months ago, in an old version of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask you not to abuse the right, which gives us Article 100, to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I really ask you, because, like all of you, I am bound by Article 100 of Section 7 which tells me that it is my duty to give measures to MPs who do not wish to apply the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this. Believe it or not, I like it much less than many of you do. National MP Kenan Hajdarevic has a word. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30264	Mrs. Comic, you're really ignoring me. I'd like to point to a breach of Article 104. What's this about? Mr Batić, you must understand one thing – do not mention my name in the context where you praise Mrs Nada Kolundji because she has good intentions, and the results are very bad. They don't want to talk to people about transfer funds, because the transfer funds were spent in election campaigns... (President: People's Parliament, please follow the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You can't know what someone wants or doesn't want. That's exactly what I'd like to tell Mr. Batić to take care of the dignity of the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30265	People's MP, you are required to listen to the chairman when he gives you instructions on the application of the Rules of Procedure. You will be given the word again to explain your reasons for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I ask you to respect Rule 104 and not to express your views on who wants and what does not want, because it is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. You can't know what someone else wants or doesn't want. You can explain your attitudes and evaluate what someone has already said and done, not his wishes, desires, and thoughts. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30266	Thank you very much, Mrs. Comic. You really didn't understand me. I do not give a judgment at all about what Mr Batic thinks of other people, nor do I express anything about Mr Batic's private life or anyone else's, but I present facts that conflict with Mr Batic's claims regarding the dignity of this National Assembly. Mr. Batic, you must tell the truth in the National Assembly. The people sent you here to tell the truth. It is true that during the budget rebalance, 15 billion transfer funds were removed from local self-government units. The fact is that these funds were used for blue, yellow packages, asphalting, yellow sheep in Leposavic, etc. These are the means of fraud. They don't care, and Diana Dragutinovic, and Mirko Cvetkovic, and the Democratic Party, what happens to Kursumlia, Prokuplje, Lebana, etc. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30267	People's MP, you were warned a moment ago. I'm giving you instructions to explain Article 104. I warned you in the first place that you couldn't, respecting Article 104... I ask MP Momir Markovic to reserve his gestures for private communication outside the National Assembly Hall, and here to respect Article 104. So you can't explain whether someone cares or doesn't care whether you qualify for anyone's behavior in that way, and consider this a second warning. National MP Jovan Palalic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and a National MP Vladan Batic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30268	Article 27. Madam Chairman, you have severely injured the Rules of Procedure. You've brought out here one untruth, that there's been a meeting between the finance minister and the representatives of the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities and that I'm misleading the public here. The way you run this session suggests that the public doesn't need to know what really happened. Last week, the Committee on Local Self-Government was scheduled. They've all been notified properly. The Committee's meeting yesterday was attended by representatives of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, State Secretary and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, but the MPs of the ZES Group did not come, and they explained that the government would solve the problem and that the Committee was not needed, and the representatives of the government came. Then we had a situation that one ministry supported 40 of the most underdeveloped municipalities, and the other didn't support. There are now lies here and trying to justify the fact that certain MPs of the parliamentary group do not want to hear the basics of these people. After all, read the memos, among other things, and the MPs who asked for the session to be postponed, where Minister Diana Dragutinovic is not mentioned anywhere, and you accused me of making a lie here. I pray that in the day of voting on your injury the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30269	There's no damage to article 27. As you can see, the full application of the Rules of Procedure of the sittings is under way, and your observation that the representatives of the Government have come to the Committee's session is part of an argument that I don't understand. Representatives of the government must come. Please don't throw it away. I have also listened very carefully to you in your request for the word and explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I ask of you nothing more than what I do, and that is respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly will make a statement on your explanation for the violation of article 27 in the voting day. National MP Vladan Batic, right to the replica of MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30270	Madam Chairman, I'm sorry, we were talking about an extremely difficult, unpleasant and painful topic for 800,000 people living in the most underdeveloped municipalities. Now you're talking, and you've caused this whole controversy, because you've made a claim that the finance minister has seen representatives of the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities. That's not true. I just replicated to you because I'm saying that they've been looking for a meeting with her for six months, and you've started to explain that there's no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Come on, try to concentrate, follow what the MPs are looking for, and demand that you respond to it eventually. I just mentioned, Mr. Krasic, in my explanation of this difficult and unpleasant subject that I really believe that both Mrs. Komic and Mrs. Kolundzija have good intentions; I just said that I believed it. You've been screaming all the time from a place like you're at a rally or a game. He doesn't deserve that kind of reaction. I agree that there are a lot of issues where you can react like this in your own way, but this is one painful subject that weighs and affects the fate of nearly 800,000 people. I've just made the full truth known. I have just quoted what they are looking for, what are their problems, what are their demands, and you will allow me to believe in good intentions both Mrs. Comic and Mrs. Kolundzija. It's my right, it's my feeling. They may be misinformed, although they do not belong to a party misinformed or uninformed, but that happens in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30271	On the basis of Article 88(2), I shall provide the necessary information and instructions for the application of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, Article 100 serves to get the word when a breach of the Rules of Procedure was detected that the chairman had not noticed. This is served by all the positions of Article 100, and by the most unpleasant one, which implies the imposition of penalties and the imposition of measures for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. If you are disturbed by any MP of the people, or if any national MP violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which prohibits discarding, rude conduct, anything rude, gestures and endangerment of dignity, then you shall address the chairman, whoever it is, and not the apostle who demonstrates such a violation of the Rules of Procedure, if the chairman has not responded (or responded) with a warning or a warning. So that there's nothing unclear left, you can see what I said in the explanation by looking at the stenogram. I have referred to the statements made by Nada Kolundzhija's MP and the stenogram and statements by Minister Diana Dragutinovic. I said - the meeting was held, the minister was not fully present, but the meeting was held. An interpretation of how many, when and where a minister or minister should be present... I would be pleased to share with you the view that both ministers, and everyone else in public affairs, and we must do much more if we really want to achieve the results we promise and what the population of Serbia deserves. You've had a pass, a replica. You have no right to be in the line of duty, but here you are, after the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30272	Mrs. Komic, ever since this system was installed, you can see that I'm reporting neatly, I'm giving you a signal that I've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm referring to Article 104. Mr. Batic, please correct the interpretation of what I'm saying. It's not a football game, it's not a sports competition, it's a question of whether 40 municipalities will exist, Mr. Batic. But you support them, you vote for everything they propose. I'm glad you found out where that road was headed. I don't mind if someone believes there's a Santa Claus or there's no Santa Claus, but the situation is alarming, and it has to distract citizens of those things that are extremely important. You today have a situation in the Democratic Party campaign to say – vote for us, we will also provide the budget, we will provide this, we will provide that, and you see, in municipalities where they are in power there are no transfer funds. It's a new scam, which is being prepared for Kosovo and Metohija, because of Vojvodina and who knows what else. You can see that no important topic is being opened here, no topic is being solved. It is particularly a question of how committee meetings are scheduled, how they run, etc. and how the Democratic Party doesn't want committees to work. They want to throw power out of the National Assembly, to be with Gilas, at Shaper's...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30273	People's MP, you've been warned twice that you don't have the right to make valuable judgments about what anyone wants, what anyone cares about, what anyone doesn't want. You have been warned twice, once with difficulties, since you have not allowed me to apply the Rules of Procedure, and I give you my first warning. National MP Kenan Hajdarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30274	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda of the draft bankruptcy law. This law regulates the economic and legal environment for business companies in the Republic of Serbia. However, for the LDP, it is extremely important that other laws be passed in addition to this law, which should eventually address this bankruptcy problem. This law is, as we all know, conceived so that under its attack come those companies, those companies that can't service their debts. Yesterday we heard from Mr Dinkic (and there is this information in the public) that more than 60,000 companies are under a constant blockade of accounts, but we did not get the information, and I think it is necessary to get it, how many of those 60,000 companies have a blockade of accounts by the state, or its organs. This is important to us because then we would see that the state is the most expensive body in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that the state, by its own measures, is destroying, by its tax policy, the economic environment in which companies in the Republic of Serbia operate. Also, when we talk about these 60,000 companies, we have to divide them into two large groups. The first group is a list of over 300 companies that have not been privatised so far, i.e. there was no buyer. These companies will most likely be liquidated in the next period or in some other way will no longer exist. Another group of the 60,000 companies is small companies, whose new bankruptcy law provides the possibility of normal business in the coming period. When we talk about bankruptcy, in public bankruptcy is always associated with liquidation. So far, only the bankruptcy managers and the bankruptcy judges, who sold the property at very low prices, have profited from our bankruptcy and thus earned wealth. When we talk about bankruptcy, when we talk about politics at all, the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we from the LDP must remind the government and MPs of the ruling coalition on the European Commission's report that everyone has said is a great, best report so far since 2000, but we all forget the economic component of the report, where it is said that in the Republic of Serbia there is a weak open market, poor competition and that the low level of financial responsibility. For all these levels, all of these topics discussed by this report are responsible for the government, i.e. individual resolutions in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are responsible. Also, if we are talking about bankruptcy and trust in this bankruptcy process that this law needs to enable, how can we talk about this trust if the public companies collapse trust in the final accounts, in the business books run by these public companies? The best example in 2008 is the strongest public enterprise in the Republic of Serbia, which is NIS, which first reported to have achieved a 30m-euro profit in 2008, and when a serious audit was carried out, there was a loss of 90m euros. Also, for five years, from 2003 to 2008, this public company reported a profit each year, and the question arises whether fraud occurred in the previous years, or whether there was a loss in NIS business? The question arises how can the state expect private firms to keep their business books properly when public enterprises, state-owned enterprises, do not? The aim of each bankruptcy is to enable the company which cannot service its debts to pay those debts, i.e. to liquidate or restructure the company. This is what this bill allows, and we support this bill in this sense. However, I will make some remarks about this bill, or some of the concerns that the LDP has. This applies to art. 11th and 12th where bankruptcy reasons have been defined and where, as one of the reasons for the launch of bankruptcy, the assumption of a threatening inability to pay is cited. You should have defined more closely who was qualified and trained to assess that assumption. When we talk about the priorities of settlement of default liabilities in payment order, I think that the second payment order, which includes claims based on public revenues, should take the position of the third payment order, and the third payment order should take the position of the second payment order. This law does not specify what to do with the later found asset of the debtor. I think that through the amendments and this needs to be defined. If we are talking about bankruptcy, if we are talking about the economic situation in the Republic of Serbia at all, it is necessary that we return this debate to a little bit of life, i.e. we should have heard yesterday from Mr Dinkic or today from you concrete answers to specific problems concerning many companies in the Republic of Serbia that have not been privatised, which have long been under bankruptcy or are at the threshold of bankruptcy. What's going to happen to these companies? That's what the citizens of those municipalities are interested in. We witnessed that there was information in the public that even one mayor, the mayor of Novi Pazar, had been replaced because he disagreed with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development for the introduction of bankruptcy into a company, which is Raška. Speaking of Novi Pazar, we have received information that a bankruptcy procedure has been introduced illegally and illegally in the holding company "Vojin Popovic". When we talk about Novi Pazar and Tutin, then we also have to talk about the "Ras" shoe factory, which has been under bankruptcy since 2003, and the workers have not yet received the follow-up given by the court, i.e. the bankruptcy manager, does not pay them those privileges that the City Court has defined for them in Tutin. When we talk about Sandzak, we must also mention the company "Ljusa Miodragović" in Prijepol, which was privatised. The privatisation was broken and now the company is under bankruptcy, and in the election campaigns we heard the promises of certain ministers to solve the company's problem. We also need to mention other companies, especially in the Sandzak area, because no other area in the Republic of Serbia has been so threatened in economic terms in the last twenty years, such as the Sandzak area. What about the Priboj headquarters factory, which has already addressed the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development for aid several times? All these companies operating in the Sandzak area, which are in a very difficult situation today, in bankruptcy or at the threshold of bankruptcy, did not come to this situation because they did not know they were working, but because of a policy that was dominant in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. because of the policy of the governments of the Republic of Serbia that made it impossible for both these workers and these companies to operate as they had done for decades earlier. We should have heard all these answers from the ministry representatives because that is the only way we can justify our being here in the Serbian Parliament. We have no obligation under the law itself, we have an overly binding obligation towards the citizens who voted for us and who allowed us to sit here in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30275	The word is from Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30276	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable chairman, respected Serbian citizens, at the beginning of my discussion on the law on bankruptcy and the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers, will show dissatisfaction because of what is permanent in the Serbian Parliament. It is unacceptable that this, more flying, is being brought by ministers who did not participate yesterday in a discussion of a very important law. The citizens of Serbia and the people who run companies and businesses are extremely interested in hearing from the legislators, from who created the law... We have a permanent situation, and I will remind you that in May or June of the month, on the last Thursday of the month, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic I asked him a parliamentary question and asked him not to have such situations taken place, which the prime minister replied to, which can be looked at in a stenogram, that it is a good thing that I asked that question and that in the future there will be those ministers who are legislators here. Permanently, this is being broken. We had a minister's excuse the other day that he got a fever, so he had to leave. Today we have this situation about a very important law. Also, the development fund, we had the same situation. This is happening all the time. I could even accept the situation if Mrs Matic had participated here with Mr Dinkic yesterday, and in the process of what the representatives of the parliamentary groups said, but this way, the entry now when those who speak on the regular list, without the opening one, I think it is completely deplaced. In the end, Madam Minister, I'm going to ask you two questions and I'd really like you to answer me, because I'm not fully convinced, not only when it comes to you, but anyone who changes here, that you're in progress. You're simply coming to stay, to pass these discussions, and we're going to go to a new law. Worse still, yesterday, at 6:00 p.m., when the minister took another word to say something, the program was interrupted and the session was re-routed at 01.33. So much for how important it is to the government in general that such an important law is demonstrated in front of Serbian citizens, in front of interested people. I repeat once again, I would really have to... I'll just give a little comparison, of course, not to compare, but I don't know how to deal with what's up here in the National Assembly: Madam Minister, in court, when it's a public search and when, for some reason, the judge can't come or replace, the search starts again. Of course, this is the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure, the powers that the Prime Minister gives, it's possible to overcome, but it's not manual, it's not right. I know for a fact that you're uncomfortable, I'm completely convinced; this is not personal to you, but to all the situations that are repeated here. In this atmosphere, I will try to tell the citizens of Serbia something about this very important law, in the time I have left. So there is an attempt to bring order into a very important area. I have to notice that there are gaps that should be solved. The new Serbia will, through a debate in principle and through the amendments that we have submitted, try to correct this law, because it is indeed our goal that this law be settled in a good way and that the unfavorable situations surrounding bankruptcy are being stopped. The law continues to survive on the fact that the costs must be passed by an authorised promoter. At first glance, it is logical and necessary, but it is necessary to look at reality. The creditors have already been damaged by the fact that the debtor has denied payment for the debt. These are often amounts that completely disrupt the business of the trustee in a shorter or longer period of time. Trustees are mostly legal entities that can be classified in the category of small and medium-sized enterprises, so often they have no interest, nor the motivation to pay high cost of advances for carrying out bankruptcy, especially given the fact that debtors are not only indivisible, but that their assets are so small that it is uncertain whether they will charge the costs, let alone demand. The way to obtain data on the real state of property of debtors, real debt and burden is impossible in the current economic system, which is evident and noticeable. By the time he was due to submit a bankruptcy proposal, the trustee had probably already paid expensive court fees to be tried for his right, paid by lawyers, was exposed to various costs, and finally, when he acted naked, he remained deprived of the fact of the insolvent debtor. When this is taken into account, it is clear that a cheaper way must be found to entrust the dares to initiate bankruptcy proceedings against their debtor, in order to eventually try to engage in the adventure. I am saying this because the bill itself has an understanding of this kind of cost, so in Article 132(7), it states that "if advertising costs are disproportionately high compared to the value of the items sold, the bankruptcy manager, with the consent of the trustee board, can advertise sales in a way different from the manner prescribed by Article 6. “ So, even the legislator, it is quite clear that there are enormous costs, since it provides for this provision when it comes to the banking phase of the bankruptcy. I'm looking for the same approach when the proposal is delivered, because it amounts from 300,000 to 500,000 dinars, which at this point is not, for any economic operator, very little. The only way to make sense of this law is to agree with this law of execution. They would together enable effective exclusion from legal and commercial traffic by all legal persons who cannot participate successfully in the competition. I therefore doubt that this law will in itself contribute to improving the situation, regardless of the intentions, which may be good. I was going to open some important questions – why is there practically no more bankruptcy in this law at all, Madam Minister, and the individual judge will continue to conduct bankruptcy proceedings in the future? Mr Dinkic said one very dangerous thing yesterday; he practically transferred the burden of responsibility to a judge who, unless he is satisfied with the random selection of a bankruptcy manager, must take responsibility for what will come next with bankruptcy. That kind of pressure on the court official given in the National Assembly in front of the MPs, in front of the citizens of Serbia, any of the judges who heard... I don't even know how you're gonna find a judge who's gonna lead the bankruptcy. You know, the state has to make it clear that judges have to be completely free to judge, not that the minister who proposes this bill is one such public pressure for any judge. What will the other judges, who conduct the criminal proceedings, the litigation, who decide on millions? It's a very inappropriate, very bad message, especially now, ahead of this election all over the country, when it comes to judges. It's a total interference of the executive authority in the judiciary. So, Madam Minister, I expect you, whether now or at the end of this discussion, to answer this question for me. I hope you have a competent associate to help you. I'm sorry Mr. Dinkic isn't here. I wanted to talk to you about a situation that's completely inappropriate. Namely, the Agency for Business Registers, which is currently receiving proposals for the registration of companies and companies, is so manufactured right now, I have to say, inappropriately many people work in regional units. I will give you an example that once in the Royal Trade Court, which was responsible for a complete district, region, even for two, three districts, for Kruševac, Cačak, Gornji Milanovac and Novi Pazar, a complete registration was conducted by a judge, a referencer and a registerer, and there was a solution to open the company. Currently in the Kingdom of the Agency for Business Registers, which operates as some single unit for the Kingdom only (so we have in Kruševec, Novi Pazar, Cačka), four people are working on receiving the documentation, so the documentation is sent to Belgrade. It is true that the founding stake has been reduced even earlier to 500 euros, but it is inappropriate that this relief of the company's opening has not been followed by a decrease in the number of workers, but is constantly being accumulated by party personnel. If you multiply with all these cities that I'm talking about, just on reception, and not on decision-making, it's over 20 people, and we're talking about layoffs here, that we're going to be a large number of civil servants... All this will be broken over some poor woman in the state administration, who otherwise receives inappropriately low wages of 17,000, 18,000, 19,000 dinars. We'll see, when you go into that reduction directly on the ground, whether it'll be for some people who receive very high wages. So everything will break on the poor, those who have no relationship, who are not party personnel, and that's the problem. And through this example, I wanted to point out that this is exactly the kind of thing that needs to be started, because getting the paperwork is only work for one employee. I remember a period when in the King, in a better economic atmosphere, one worker received documentation; now there are four employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30277	The word is from MP Zoran Kasalovic, followed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30278	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as in many areas of social life in which no universal solutions exist, and analyses of parallel legal solutions show that there is no single best bankruptcy system. In addition to the fact that bankruptcy can be a chance to solve certain financial problems, as seen in many well-developed countries, and the possibility of a new successful business and protection of property, I appreciate that it is a perfectly logical and acceptable approach for the promoter. This approach is considered, above all, in the correction of the non-applicable provisions of the previous 2004 law, of course, with the use of the experience of participants in bankruptcy proceedings and professional public, and the improvement of some of the good solutions and legal and technical corrections of both proposed laws. I would therefore like to say that the participants in the bankruptcy proceedings, as well as the good acquaintances of this matter, which the SPS - JS MPs have managed to consult by preparing for these draft laws, which have also given us a number of complaints that I will talk about later, confirmed that thanks to such an approach, the proposal has succeeded in establishing in principle good legal proposals, the specificities of business in the Republic of Serbia, respecting the effects of the global economic crisis and that they are a new and quality step towards legal certainty, which will certainly improve the bankruptcy procedure in the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I would like to mention several newspapers already repeatedly by authorised representatives and speakers mentioned, but support these claims. First of all, the objective of bankruptcy is defined and eight principles of bankruptcy, which makes these laws more precise and enables identical treatment in the same factual matters. Then, the new bankruptcy-insolvency, which occurs in the case where the debtor's assets are less than the liabilities, and one quite practical solution that is viewed in the abolition of the bankruptcy council and, consequently, the depletion of small-value bankruptcy, since the practice has shown that bankruptcy is more difficult to form, and that in their work they mainly confirmed the decisions already made. One really important news is the introduction of deadlines for application, so they're between 30 and 120 days. Clearly, the lack of such a provision was a source for possible abuses and unnecessary delays in bankruptcy proceedings. We appreciate, too, that the beating of claims, which is not lost by opening a bankruptcy procedure, is one very important newspaper. As far as reorganisation is concerned, I would like to say that this institute has been the subject of special interest of the SPS-JS MPs. I would first of all like to mention certain remarks that have been suggested to us, which we have accepted and we want to make them known to the motionary. First of all, it concerns the fact that the trustee has two different treatments, depending on the character of property over the creditor. That was yesterday spoken by our authorised representative, Mr Milan Nikolic, and I would not like to further elaborate. In that sense, I'd like to mention a few more things. So, above all, the possibility of difficulties is opened due to the parallel application of three laws, and the possible impact on the effectiveness of the procedure, which is the Law on Forced Alignment, bankruptcy and winding-up of 1989, the Law on the bankruptcy procedure and this proposed law, given the duration of certain bankruptcy proceedings. Then, there are certain objections in the way of selecting the bankruptcy manager, the duration, the precise limitation of the exam, and also certain objections in terms of reorganisation, such as, in our opinion, the desirable vision of the removal of the cause of insolvency. I'd like to mention a few findings here in that sense. First of all, it is evident that so far the practice has shown that a small number of adopted reorganisations, except that indicators say that something slightly better is the situation in Vojvodina. Yesterday we heard that since 794 bankruptcy proceedings only 29 or 4% ended in reorganisation. Reorganisation is a way for the economic operator to revive, heal and continue its activity. We appreciate that in this sense the workers who work here benefit from it, and the creditors will certainly be satisfied with the end of it. Of course, the state has an interest there, too, because it will get a good and healthy business entity that will also be a good taxpayer in the future, which will fill the budget. The main consideration of the people we have consulted in this section, whose objections we appreciate, is that the proposed law does not highlight enough and the advantages of the reorganisation in relation to bankruptcy, and that Articles 156 and 158 may require excessive formality, which may discourage the promoters for this kind of closure of bankruptcy, or such proposals and plans will be rejected for procedural reasons by the court. In view of the fact that the promoter predicted the novelty, so-called The Institute of Pre-prepared Reorganisation Plan, which represents a new possibility and a shortened procedure where it is possible to reject or adopt a proposal, we at the SPS-JS Parliament Club appreciate that this way, however, the possibility and advantage of reorganisation as possible ending the bankruptcy process in relation to bankruptcy is kind of highlighted. In that regard, I do not think it is too burning to take into account some kind of proposal that it is necessary to extend the deadlines for editing the previously submitted plan and to reduce the formalities of the mandatory content. The SPS-JS Parliament Club has not responded to amendments in this regard, because we want to give the law a chance to prove itself in practice. We think that these effects should be closely monitored and, if necessary, if the desired effects are not fully met, measures should be taken in this direction and, of course, if some negative phenomena occur. Of course, in order to achieve its full capacity, both legislative proposals will depend heavily on the professional and responsible conduct of the procedure, therefore, on the choice of professional and competent bankruptcy judges. We want to believe that's how it's gonna be. In this regard, we also appreciate the provisions that the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, in addition to issuing licences, will play a more important role – to oversee the work of bankruptcy managers and to play a certain regulatory role in the development of the profession of bankruptcy managers, with the possibility of issuing certain binding instructions, which will certainly contribute to the better work and development of this profession. A provision that excludes the possibility of a bankruptcy manager being in a working relationship is also good, as it should enable full commitment of bankruptcy managers to cases and better quality of work. The SPS-JS MPs want this work of bankruptcy managers to take place with one controlled and real compensation for their work. High fees have already been mentioned here; we want them to be reduced into real frames. Finally, for the sake of all this, I believe that the draft laws on bankruptcy and changes and additions to the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30279	The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, and then a National MP, Munir Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30280	Gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens, despite the efforts of authors and promoters that this law that we have before us as a plan that is full of good intentions, we must look at the effects of the previous law, from the same authors and the same people who applied it. That is why yesterday's remark that the bankruptcy law must focus on the solutions given in this proposal is really not appropriate. We cannot forget the very devastating results left behind by the application of the previous Banks Act and that this innovation is in the wrong direction, that poor bankruptcy law. The implications that the bankruptcy law should have on the economy of one country, on employment, on competitiveness, on financial discipline, on the creation of environments and rules for the business of all, are absolutely not taken into account when making this law, on the contrary. You haven't tried for any moment to get rid of inefficient and incompetent, or those who need to carry out these proceedings, I mean the bankruptcy managers, and you also didn't want as a state that regulates the conditions, to take the risk of failure and poor results, but in law you left the duality of the authorities implementing bankruptcy and the minister who is in charge of bankruptcy at the top of the government and the executive government. Mr. Luka, I'm sorry you're not in a position to answer, but you're the author who's forgotten little Mr. Radulovic, he's barely mentioned himself, and he is one of the authors and this law, and I want you to hear the question I'm asking at the right moment. Are you as a lawyer and a lawyer agreeing that the law states that the competent minister of bankruptcy is the minister who proposed this law, which is the Minister of Economics and Regional Development? Could it have been possible for you as a lawyer to promote inaccuracy – the minister responsible for the companies over which the bankruptcy is opened? Would that burden this text of the law if you'd narrowed his jurisdiction like that? I know that nothing here is by chance, except for the amendments G 17 gave you, where since May the proposed law in Articles 158 and 159 has some attitude 6, that formatting, the copy-paisy, and it remains a surplus, and it's been deleted. If that's the kind of attention that's been done for a long time, I can't call this a failure, I can call it intent. That's exactly what worries me as a member of the SNS, who at this point has the opportunity to make a comment. The bankruptcy authority cannot be a bankruptcy judge, and the minister in charge of bankruptcy, as defined in Article 20, is responsible for bankruptcy if he should be praised for the results, and when he is a problem, then to say, the court is guilty. As he answered specific questions to me last night – it's the court's fault, ask them. Mr. Luka, you are sitting on the board of directors of the newly formed firm "Fiat", you, as a man of Mr. Dinkic's trust. You have Mrs Drinjakovic sitting next to you, as a man of Mr Tadic's trust. Why the founding role of the "Fiat" has not yet been paid, and where the law, the strict rules of procedure, respect for what is called the development of this country, which is based on the laws that we bring here. This double morale of experts who respect the law and leave the widest possible framework for discretion has left too much evidence of your bad intentions. And I won't admit you're superficial, because you're not superficial. You know very well how to regulate things that interest you. But those you do not want to be well defined, but to leave the possibility of abuse, they are contained in Article 11, where bankruptcy reasons are cited, for example, where it is said that a more permanent failure to pay is when someone completely suspends payment for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or cannot respond to obligations within 45 days. When the debate is in particular, I'm going to give concrete examples of how it can be done on purpose and how you can totally deliberately skip this, but when you say that over-indebtedness exists if the property of a creditor is less than his obligations, is it enough to write one of these simple extended sentences? To us, citizens of Serbia, who know that privatisation was made by prospectuses that forgot thousands of hectares, hundreds, buildings visible with the naked eye of every layman, forgotten to be put into balance, and that's the Privatisation Agency accepted. This is terrible. You say - it's defined. You haven't even written if it's a balance sheet, checked, certified, who's responsible for irregularity, and we're witnesses of abuse. Unemployed citizens are witnesses of abuse; those who came to enormous wealth overnight without paying them witnesses as you write the laws and how you enforce them. Please, other colleagues who have read the laws, have you received any other suggestions, unlike me? Don't you mind if the Privatisation Agency and its bankruptcy centre get the right to go bankrupt and its representatives as bankruptcy managers just file a report? They're immutable, Mr. Luka. There is no solution for them, their privilege is not to answer to anyone. What did the Privatisation Agency deserve? Is that famous memo by Mrs Vesna Ginić, who we don't know where she is today, that the funds charged by bankruptcy can't be held with domestic banks, but was sent by e-mail to a list of banks, which are the formal stock companies of this country, but were founded by foreign founders, that only them could be charged with bankruptcy? And you, like me, know there's this document. With how much illegality has the Privatisation Agency acquired the right to give her this kind of preferential treatment again? With how much money spent on financial and legal advisors who never laid an account before the budget, nor did they enter the budget? Is that why this law was passed? Is that why there is now one man from the center who attends the bankruptcy to learn the work of those who know him? Please, colleagues, don't be tomorrow – we didn't know, no one warned us. The change of ownership structure during bankruptcy is foreseen. Does lex specialis allow anything or are there laws that can change the ownership structure? You claim this is a good and better law. I claim that this law gives even less opportunity to protect creditors from illegal court decisions. It may not be interesting to anyone, but this law allows courts to make illegal decisions, which you say are not allowed to audit. Is this allowed in a legal system that pleads for constitutionality, which should, if not in front of domestic courts, the Supreme, in front of the European Court to show that we are a legal state? How can a legal remedy be excluded in the pursuit of high-value creditors? We know that the Law on Prosecution provides protection for citizens to seek protection of their rights before the Supreme Court if their claims exceed the value of 500,000 dinars. What do you have to say? You know what I have to tell you? I won't mention the participants in the process that's under way. A letter from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to the Supreme Court of Serbia, and through the Trade Court in Subotica, says -- I suggest that the Supreme Court in Belgrade abolished the court's rulings and refer the case to the first-degree court for rejuvenation or abolish only a second-degree decision and return the case to that court for decision, because against a first-degree and second-degree court ruling there is a reason to raise claims for the protection of legality. By comparing the facts, the bankruptcy trustee (I will not specify the name) acquired a claim on the assets of the creditor before the creditor (and I will deliberately say which one is - Luka Belgrade) and thus has a championship (which I do not name) in the order of settlement, as a separate trustee, from the funds obtained by the sale of the asset of the creditor. The failure due to this, sir, colleagues and citizens, and the illicit availability of a bankruptcy manager has been legalized by making a first-degree settlement on the main deboss and second-degree resolution on the rejection of the complaint by a separate trustee as unauthorized. Where are you, gentlemen of the law? So the illegal availability of a creditor legalizes the court by protecting itself by means of an instrument of illegal appeal, and you are introducing here as a regular institute. And someone here dares to praise this law. The Serbian Supreme Court, in the end, says - we believe that the Supreme Court is competent to adopt a claim for the protection of legality and thus influences illegal judicial decisions based on illicit availability and not to allow them to have legal facts in legal traffic, etc. Is this really so small to be overlooked? Or are these exactly the intentions this law needs to carry out, in addition to a job for the Privatisation Agency and its bankruptcy center? If there is no supervision, as it is not under this law, by the bankruptcy judges for those proceedings done by the Agency, who will decide that for sale during this procedure, someone decides to sell it at an extremely low price, without having to ask for anyone's approval, or that illegal decision of the government talked about yesterday by Mr Dinkic, or consent, or any document... This law now allows it. Someone can pretend they don't see it. If we add to this the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, this newly adopted, by which land and property users under very interesting, certain circumstances, it is said, will become owners of a huge, up until now construction, land, it becomes clear what this law wants to achieve. I'm warning you this before the consequences arise, in a timely moment, even though the debate started late last night, so some business provisions have been trying to shut us out of the transmission part, because these are uninteresting things. Indeed, with a raised tone, concerned about the consequences of the application of this law, you authors, the government that tries to hide behind the court, and takes the duality of decision, I ask – who decides if this is the case? What legal means, when is this shaped like this? You will say to me, "There is a jurisdictional judgment." The court will say no, that's what the government wanted. Until today, we will have a story about Sartide, and to this day we will argue that there have been illegal decisions on some sales. Someone here is going to ask - why did NIS now show a loss of eight billion? Should I remind you? Since 2002, in conclusion with 2005, your minister here, responsible for bankruptcy, has introduced a special government donation institute by public enterprises, which, according to NIS sources, only in 2004 and 2005, has been paid into Serbia's budget by about eight billion dinars. With this practice began at the time of Goran Novakovic and later personnel of one, the other, and third governments, and the money was donated, at the government's request, and for various commercial events divided by cap and fist, from which the oil industry of Serbia could be reconstructed. Creative interpretation of accounting, accounting, international accounting standards shows that the government was able to present a surplus in 2007. As the new finance minister arrives, it turns out we have a deficit. The same logic, control, legality, efficiency and financial discipline led to a large public enterprise being able to gain and then lose. And in that surplus and deficit of the government and in this profit or loss of the NIS is the exclusive, decisive role of Mr. Minister of bankruptcy, as stated here, with you experts who write to us here such laws and, most of all, with the silent consent of the coalition partner, in this or that form. One thing's for sure, the bankruptcy is a disgrace to us yet, and it shouldn't be. If it had been arranged according to different legal criteria, it would have been a reorganization, and a measure of healing and a way of overcoming the problem, and this is how it is still said as a synonym for robbery and wealth – bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30281	The word is by MP Munir Poturak, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please, just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30282	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, regarding this bankruptcy law, I wanted to point out the usefulness of this law. I worked 23 years in the economy; we know that in the last decade Serbia has become a haven for debtors. Non-payment has become a culture in the economy. The employers also took their duties, their obligations, and the length of the bankruptcy process along with many of their creditors into the sun. This law is a cure for Serbia's economy. This law has brought together five years of experience in this previous law. I wanted to point out in this way that in the creation of this law with corrections, with experience, they participated, alongside our experts, and international institutions, in order to translate the experiences of the surrounding countries that are in transition, which carries with them a certain problem in the functioning of the economy, into this law. The result of this law can be an acceleration and more efficient business of our economy, to restore trust and security to our businesses and to our investors. An ambience is being created in which people, businessmen, will create clearer business relations among themselves. Most importantly, the bankruptcy process will be shorter; the bankruptcy process will be cheaper; bankruptcy institutions will have more responsibility. The moment this law takes place coincides with judicial reform, and that is what is most important for this law. I hope that this law with judicial reform, with new judges, will gain its full importance and its full role. I want a review of the work of current bankruptcy managers, as they have done, because of those who need to be elected and who will implement the law that parliament has adopted here. I think this law is the most useful thing this Parliament will adopt in 2009 and will have the greatest effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30283	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, followed by MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today it is difficult for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The economic situation is difficult in every part of Serbia, but it is certainly the most difficult for Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. This item of the agenda is a good opportunity to talk about a topic that is of great interest to all citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, and should certainly interest the Serbian government. It's about a month ago, so-called. Kosovo's privatisation agency has put three extremely important Serbian business facilities in Kosovo and Metohija on sale. It's about buildings in the "Brezovica" tourist complex. That is what we discussed, or asked the government of the Republic of Serbia. To this day, we have not received any answers, so I am taking the opportunity, while a government official is present to meet the Government of the Republic of Serbia with an extremely difficult situation in which Serbs are in the general Strpce, related to the privatisation of the Brezovica tourist complex. Namely, it is the restaurant "Branavara" Bezovica DOO which is located about one kilometer from the center of Brezovica, on the main road of Strpce-Prizren. This offer provides an extraordinary opportunity to buy a plot of approximately 13 acres, 94 square meters, including an object of approximately 180 square meters, suitable for a restaurant. A deposit of offers, the Kosovo Privatisation Agency's prospectus said -- 20,000 euros. The second facility is the company "Little cabin" Bezovica DOO. It is located about four kilometers from the centre of Brezovica on its way to the ski centre. This offer provides an extraordinary opportunity to buy a plot of approximately 37 acres and 68 square meters, including an object of about 35 square meters, currently rented and used as a restaurant. Deposit bid - 20,000 euros. The third facility is the bar "Strpce". It's in the center of the town of Strpce. This offer provides an extraordinary opportunity to buy an object of approximately 110 square meters, currently used as a bar. And this deposit is worth 20,000 euros. Of course, there's a problem here that, unfortunately, they're so-called. Kosovo Cypriot authorities have managed to find a number of Serbs who are ready to sell this property, or help Kosovo's privatisation agency sell this. You, Mrs Matic, certainly know, as we know, as all citizens of Serbia know, what the tourism potential of this part of Serbia is and what it would mean for Serbs living in the municipality of Strpce and in local municipalities to sell this and to take over the state property of the Republic of Serbia, which holds huge tourist potential. As proof that the government is so-called. The Republic of Kosovo has managed to find several Serbs who help sell this Serbian property, here, let me give you an example. A meeting was held in Pristina on 30 April 2009. I also have a record from that meeting. The meeting was attended as participants by Mr. Radojica Mrđinac, it was said in the record that he is a Kosovo Serb, president of the municipality of Strpce, but those of Strpce, which recognises the authority of the Republic of Kosovo; then, Mr. Stanko Jakovljevic, also said to be a Kosovo Serb, mayor; Mr. Aleksandar Janićevic, Kosovo Serb, director of Ineksa at Brezovica; Mr. Dino Asanaj, a Kosovo Albanian, chairman of the Kosovo privatisation agency; Mr. Shkeljzen Lukaj, a Kosovo Albanian, regional co-ordinator of the privatisation agency; Mr. Sasa Ćosic, a Kosovo Serb, director of the human service and also one Kosovo Albanian, director of tourism. Look out, what's the subject of the conversation? Mr. Dino Asanaj said the Kosovo Privatisation Agency wants to open an office in the municipality of Strpce. Mr. Stanko Jakovljevic said that he, as mayor of Strpce, does not have his office in the municipality building because of the parallel structures. Do you know what the parallel structures are, Mrs. Matic? The parallel structures are the municipality and its officials who participated in the May 2008 elections in the local elections called by the state of Serbia. For these Serbs, their brothers represent parallel structures. I'm telling you this clean so you can get a sense of what kind of people this is and what kind of people are willing to sell this tourist potential. Mr. Jakovljevic recommended that Mr. Asanaj and his agency rent space near the municipality building. Mr. Jakovljevic said that his municipality, beware -- his municipality, a municipality that recognises the authority of the Republic of Kosovo, will provide full co-operation to the Kosovo privatisation agency. He said the director for catastran and urbanism in the municipality would prepare all necessary documents for Kosovo's privatisation agency. Mr. Asanaj said a German expert will arrive in Strpce next week and remain there for a month to conduct a feasibility study for economic development covering the entire region, including a ski centre. Mr. Asanaj said that illegal construction must be stopped as soon as possible. Otherwise, no one will want to invest in the region. Mr. Jakovljevic said that the first step should be to tear down several illegal houses in the weekend zone, to discourage further construction, as no one has permission for urbanism. Mr. Asanaj said the process in which the ski centre should be able to function throughout the year would take two or three years. Mr. Aleksandar Janićijevic said that the mountain (thinks of the Sar-Mountain) has exceptional opportunities, but is only used during the winter. Mr. Janićijevic said that the ski centre is located in an area that is not windy as other ski centres. He said they were planning to build a tourist center for activities over 365 days a year. Mr Janićijevic said that before the war hotels in Brezovica had up to 150,000 guests annually because of summer seminars and skiing in winter. Mr. Radojica Mrđinac said that the main location for future development will be on the left side of the ski centre, between the hotel "Molika" and the TV repeater. Mr. Mrđinac said he wanted to include the national park, the cultivation of traditional grasses and plants, as well as other types of organic food, such as carp cheese, blackberries, etc., all in order of agricultural and economic development. Mr. Lukaj said 230 ha of the country is currently available for this project, which is currently being done by a master plan to be presented to the community in the near future. He said that economic development and prosperity go in favour of all and that, although he expects some resistance from parallel structures – these are, to remind you, the alleged parallel structures of the Serb municipality of Strpce, led by the head of the municipality, the SRS Serb, Zvonko Mihajlovic – the economic and reality of the people will prevail in favour of the project and economic development. In the end, you will hear a frantic sentence repeated these days by the same ones who invite Serbs to come out on Sunday so-called. Kosovo elections. Tourism director Mr. Skelezen said he knows the mentality of the people in Strpce and that people there must accept a new reality, which is the Republic of Kosovo. Why am I saying this, Mrs. Matic, to you? Because, according to the information the SRS has, this Mr. Janijevic and all these people who participated in these meetings are preparing to sell the Bezovic ski centre or belong to your party, the G17 Plus, or are close to them. Two days ago, Mrs Matic, the president of the municipality of Strpce sent a letter to Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the Ministry of Economy and the regional development of the Republic of Serbia. Here, in order for Serbian citizens to know what this is about, and for you to get to know each other, and as minister and party colleague of Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, let me read these few sentences: "Dear Mr. Minister, here is the full ten years of our company's agony in the municipality of Strpce still being held as social. Due to the poor functioning of their assets, their workers are suffering from a temporary compensation granted through the National Employment Service. In this way, the status of employees of the DOO “Inex ski centre Brezovica” has been resolved, who have nevertheless made a great effort and selfless effort to preserve the property of the same from the collapse and protected it from entering the Ship's hands. Not long ago, this company was a municipality and a business development vehicle, of which about 400 lived directly and indirectly and over 1,000 families, hoping that future, even greater tourism development would provide them with a lasting future in these areas. Today, the municipality of Strpce and Sar-plani instead of tourist development, which this most beautiful and significant mountain in the Republic of Serbia, and beyond, by its natural characteristics, deserves to be threatened by a Shipage invasion, while the overture would be privatising this company according to the so-called regulations. the Republic of Kosovo. Already announced DOO privatisation "Bezovica ski centre" by the Kosovo Privatisation Agency, which is being prepared these days, aims to completely and permanently destabilise this area, threatening to really change the ethnic structure of the population in these areas. The announced privatisation wants, above all, to examine the pulse of the Serb population, by making it the intention of this agency and the Cypriot institutions in Pristina to privatise in the first phase the three facilities of this company: the Mali and the Velika cabin on Brezovica and the City pub in Strpec, and then in the second phase and all the catering facilities and other properties, including the large area of immovableity on the mountain itself. In support of this intention is the destructive behaviour of the director of this company, Aleksandar Janicevic, who is otherwise a proven schipophile, who is taking their orders with harmful behavior. This person is also the deputy mayor of the municipality of Strpce, whom the government of Kosovo has decreed. Along with his warm pledge, and several of his associates, there have been contacts with the Kosovo Privatisation Agency in Pristina to start the privatisation process of the company. Workers of the grouped company in the union, not appeased with such a possible factual situation, organised to get the director on the road and to defuse such privatisation, seeking his shift. In several contacts and meetings with representatives of this company from Belgrade, we have concluded that the director has the air support and assistance of Vladan Radonjic, chairman of the Management Board of the DoO "Ski-centre Brezovica" Belgrade, possibly other relevant factors of this company, but also of your ministry, in the form of lower officials, as well as assistant ministers. It is not difficult to discover the motives of this shameful and treasonous policy, which consists of a significant illegal property gain that will leave serious and far-reaching consequences for the survival of Serbs in our municipality. Deeply concerned about the survival and future of more than 12,000 Serbs in our municipality, we believe that this kind of criminal activity should be put on the path and that it is up to you to deal with it personally. Since the property of this company is mostly owned by the Serbian state, it is necessary and urgent to do everything to stop this privatisation and to find a new owner or strategic partner with international influence in the fastest privatisation process under our regulations again, in order to find a new owner or strategic partner with international influence, there, above all, think of the Russian Federation, which would bring hope for a better future in these areas and open new aspects and opportunities in the development of tourism, whose potentials are huge, and also to prevent possible new populations. Without doubting your courage and determination in a number of challenges during the exercise of power in the government of the Republic of Serbia's responsible resolutions, we believe that you will take all the necessary steps to realise the forward, and in this regard we offer you every possible assistance and co-operation. Otherwise, we will see you as the main culprit for the destruction of Serbian state property in Kosovo and Metohija, which depends on the naked survival of Serbs. We sincerely hope that you will give us a firm and clear understanding as soon as possible. With respect, the municipality of Strpce, President Zvonko Mihajlović"...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30285	National MP, within 15 minutes, you have not respected the provision of Article 103(1). I ask that you or all of this be associated with the subject of the agenda for 15 minutes, and I remind you that we are discussing the draft law on bankruptcy and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for Licensing of bankruptcy managers, or that we understand that you are not leaving me any other option than to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because it is an obligation for all of us to talk about what is on the agenda, which you have not done in any sentence over the previous 15 minutes, and I ask you to bring everything in a statement in connection with the subject of the agenda. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30286	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for this exhaustive information. I said this first because this is a life theme for Serbs living in this part of Kosovo and Metohija...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30287	People's MP, I've given you instructions as a warning, and I ask you to return to the agenda. I listened very carefully to you for 15 minutes. With common insight into the stenogram, you can see that in no case do I intervene, except by what the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do. Therefore, the subject of the agenda is the draft law on bankruptcy and the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers. Please dedicate your presentation to agenda topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30288	I thank you again, Mrs. Comic. In order for me to listen to your suggestion, you have to listen to me and let me finish my sentence. You can't interrupt me in half a sentence because you haven't heard what I have to say. Have a little patience. So the secretary of the National Assembly Mr. Veljko Odalovic knows very well what this is about. It is an extremely important topic for Serbs living in this part of Kosovo and Metohija. Why am I saying this?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30289	People's MP, I've given a warning. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that speakers are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. Your clear intention is to force me to give you measures. I'm at your disposal. First I listened carefully for 15 minutes, then I listened carefully, after the instructions, so after the warning, you too do not intend to give up your breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you not to mention people who cannot turn to the Assembly in your presentations, in breach of Article 103(1) of the Rules of Procedure. By giving you a warning I ask you to devote the rest of the time available to you on the subject of the agenda – Proposal for a law on bankruptcy and a bill on amendments to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30290	So, Mrs. Komic, this is what I've been talking about as part of the debate on the draft bankruptcy law, for one single reason: in the Republic of Serbia a few years ago, since DOS came to power, bankruptcy has cut off the way for privatisation of businesses. I hope you're satisfied with this answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30291	The People's Messenger Zoran Babic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to point out in a few words to you and the citizens of Serbia certain shortcomings in the bill on bankruptcy, which is why this bill is not acceptable to the Serbian Progressive Party Parliamentary Group. Namely, you stated in Article 2 that the only objective of bankruptcy is the most favourable collective settlement of creditors by achieving the highest possible value of the creditor, while ignoring the fact that the outcome of bankruptcy is interested and employees of the creditor, but also the wider social community. The basic, classical objective of the bankruptcy process is realised by creating conditions for the collective settlement of creditors through the liquidation of its assets and the even division of the pooled assets of creditors. However, the objective of the bankruptcy process should not only be expressed in the protection of the interests of creditors. On the contrary, the legal bankruptcy institute must also protect the interests of other participants in the process. These are the interests of the debtor, but also of the wider social community. Therefore, the bankruptcy procedure must be observed in the light of the trustee's interest, but also in the light of the interest of the creditor and society in general. The rules of bankruptcy must constitute an expression of the general protection of the interests of creditors and of the preservation of corporate morality. They must stimulate the creation of debt-confidential relations and strengthen awareness of the necessity of their respect, because meeting the commitments undertaken is not exclusively an interest of trustees, but also of society as a whole. Active participants in the bankruptcy process are also employees of the creditor, who you treat as only a statistical category. Staff members of the creditor should be actively involved in the bankruptcy process, with the aim of making peace with their outstanding claims from the working relationship with the creditor. This settlement of unmistakable earnings and other income of employees from employment is the first but not the primary objective that those persons want to achieve in bankruptcy. Their primary objective is in line with the social interest of ending bankruptcy by preserving the legal subjectivity of the creditor. Such closure of bankruptcy shall provide for the continuation of the economic activity of the creditor, and thus adequate employment in the performance of his or her activity. They are therefore employed by the debtor and are interested in the fate of their working relationship after the end of bankruptcy, as they are interested in this bill, although the proposer of the law treats the person employed by the creditor only in Article 77(1) and (2) when he prescribes that the opening of the bankruptcy procedure is the reason for the cancellation of the labour contract concluded by the creditor with the employees. The settlement of outstanding claims from a working relationship with a creditor and the preservation of a working relationship represent two basic objectives of employees in relation to the possible outcome of the bankruptcy process and those for a socially responsible government, such as the Government of the Republic of Serbia alone, but not essentially, must be equal objectives of the bankruptcy law, not just the settlement of bankruptcy creditors. In Article 5, you have defined the principle of economicity under which the bankruptcy procedure is carried out so that it allows the maximum possible value of the assets of the creditor and the maximum degree of settlement of the creditors in the shortest time and at as little cost as possible. However, such a bill did not convince us that the bankruptcy process would be shortened from the current 2.7 years, not 1.5 to 2 years, as Serbian Foreign Minister Mladjan Dinkic said yesterday. This is shorter for shades than in Croatia where it lasts for 3.1 years, i.e. in Bulgaria and Romania where it lasts 3.3 years, but also much longer than Germany, where the bankruptcy process lasts 1.2 years. However, for all economic factors in Serbia, and especially for creditors and creditors, it is an extremely devastating fact that the level of settlement of creditors in Serbia is 10%, while the cost of bankruptcy proceedings in the total bankruptcy is 23%, which is one to two. For Serbia, the devastating experiences from the environment where the relationship between trustees and the cost of bankruptcy in Croatia is two to one, in Bulgaria and Romania 3.5 to 1 and in Germany as much as 7 to 1. By comparing this data with our reality, we see that Serbia's bankruptcy procedures are relatively slow, but also extremely expensive. I'm sure nothing will fundamentally change, because this bill is directed to allow easier and faster liquidation or bankruptcy initiative in more than 350, still social, enterprises with about 5,000 employees, which you will send to the street and nothing more. The illogicalities are also seen in Article 21(1) where you have provided that a bankruptcy officer cannot be appointed a person who is in custody, during the duration of the detention, or against whom a criminal procedure has been committed under official duty, as well as a person who has been convicted of a criminal offence for which the sentence for over five years has been prevented. What does that mean? That, according to this bill, you will be appointed by your "bubb", as said by the minister of bankruptcy of Serbia, as if this were a lotto or bingo law, to appoint persons legally sentenced to jail for up to five years. Perhaps in this way Bojan Kristo, which took place from the People's Lottery of Serbia and through the Airport, will be able to aerate somewhere as a bankruptcy manager. I thought the Law on the Communist Police would be an exception, because you predicted that a municipal police officer could be convicted of criminal punishment for up to five years, but now I see that it became a rule of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that he puts people in very responsible places of criminal past. Article 21 is in total collegiate with Article 23. 6) where it is said that the licence of a bankruptcy administrator is not given to a person whose behaviour in performing an earlier professional activity or other proceedings may conclude that he will not be able to securely perform the business of a bankruptcy manager. That's fine, but is there more evidence of unwitting professional activity than a criminal conviction, which does not exclude business crime, which you in Article 21. Are you tolerating and predicting the bill? This is not a reflection of the government that wants to deal with crime, but a reflection of the government that tolerates this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30293	The total time available to the parliamentary group has been used up to one second. National MP Zoran Ostojić is currently in the hall, but since you were not present when it was in order, then I should ask the other MPs whether they are missing you now or waiting for the end of the list. The People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30294	Thank you to your colleagues and colleagues. Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the bankruptcy law and the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers are a shift compared to previous laws. Unfortunately, from our point of view an insufficient shift. We would like legislation in this matter to really be at European Union level, if it can't already be at US level, but what it is, there it is. We don't expect that speed, we commend the shifts. The principled objections to this law are really principled. Somehow, it seems to us that this law was done more by economists than by lawyers. Although I am an economist, I welcome it, but here I find a remark, and hence some members are truly confusedly formalized and unclear, although the intensity (especially the objectives) of the law is good. As far as the License Act is concerned, that solution for bankruptcy managers to get out of the drums is better than that which allowed a few to run twenty bankruptcys and many none, but somehow it seems to be a formalistic approach. We are not sure that this quality will be respected, regardless of the enhanced control measures of the Agency for License over the work of bankruptcy managers. We think that, according to the solutions given in the law, this surveillance is kind of bureaucratic, formal, that this surveillance can't get into the essence. There are some other solutions in the legislation that are between the judge determining the bankruptcy director and this extraction from the drum, but, objectively, none of them are perfect. I'm not gonna say there's a perfect one. That is why this is also a step forward, but we really think that the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, when it comes to the monitoring measures provided for by the law, will have to do much more with the effort and professional input into the essence of what bankruptcy managers are doing to control their work, not just according to some indicators that are formal and bureaucratic. It's not good that this bankruptcy law makes a large area a fact-finding exception, and that's what's most often going to go bankrupt, and that's social enterprises. Unfortunately, the bankruptcy of social enterprises continues, i.e. it has a monopoly Privatisation Agency. After the experience we've had with the work of the Privatisation Agency, that's what everyone's talking about, the number of failed privatisations, we don't think that's good. The fact is that it's regulated by another law, the Privatisation Act, but we propose and urge to consider this solution that the Privatisation Agency has a monopoly in the bankruptcy of social enterprises. If we're going to be honest, which companies are going to go bankrupt most of the time? However, these social ones; they are mostly in bankruptcy and in difficulty because at this point the privatisation process has stalled and, ultimately, there are subjective and objective circumstances. Anyway, moving forward, not enough for LDP, but enough to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30295	Thank you. The word will be given to Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the draft law on bankruptcy and the draft law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks. Before I say anything concrete about these laws, I really need to draw attention to the public of Serbia for the permanent violation of the Rules of Procedure by taking a break in the work of the Assembly, which should take place between 14 and 15 hours, moving and harmonizing towards ministers, instead of according to the Rules of Procedure. Simply, neither does the public of Serbia know, and especially the MPs who take part in this work are not sure when they will be able to take advantage of that break that follows them. I ask the question, where did the chairman come from (now you've taken over the chairman's seat, until a few minutes ago in that place was Mrs. Comic) know that all those on the list will take advantage of that time? Well, theoretically, it could happen, let's say, that the break is scheduled for 11.00 hours or 11.30 hours, according to what she said; or, if all the parliamentary groups used the time available to them, then they would be working all day without a break. So much for that, and I really appeal to you, Mr. Novakovic, to do something to honor the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic Assembly. Let's get back to this law. These two laws were carried out with expert consultation and instructions from foreign experts, primarily those of the USID. They, however, also participated in the adoption of the 2004 law that treated this matter. When looking at the reasoning of these laws, it can be seen immediately that it says no additional funding is necessary to implement such laws in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Is that right? Now I'm going to prove to you that it's not exactly like that and that it's necessary to allocate certain resources. So let's say, according to some information, even though that information is a liability, I'm going to talk about it during my discussion, we have about 60,000 economic operators that are the target group of this law and that's why this law is being passed. We know that the state is the biggest trustee of these businesses, primarily through the tax administration. Analysis and insight into all this may lead to some data that at least 40,000 cases of Serbia's state as a proposing bankruptcy proceedings must pay a certain amount on behalf of the advertising costs, the cost of notifying creditors, as it simply stands in Article 59 of this law. These are not the only costs to be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget. For example, at least 30,000 euros are insurance costs from the professional liability of the bankruptcy manager. But we still have the costs: there is, for example, additional insurance, at the request of the trustees' board, with insurance premiums also representing the cost of bankruptcy. According to estimates of some financial experts and financial circles, the largest part of this debt, even mentioned figures of up to 15 billion euros, refers to banks, and we know that banks are now mostly, or in the vast majority, owned by foreigners. For this reason, this law is passed in a package with several other laws in the banking sector, because, practically, it is one of the laws that needs to protect the interests of bankers. Here we must bear in mind that the collection of state revenues is also carried out at the cost of the liquidation of companies, where the state does not care at all about the interests of employees working in these companies. If we know it's the state that's supposed to create a business environment, then she should act like a mother, not as a stepmom, as we see here, because it's her job to save what can be saved. But here it's completely the other way around. The law stipulates that the order of payment of claims from the standing table should be such that the cost of bankruptcy is paid first, after which unpaid earnings, i.e. minimumers and contributions, and at the end of the request of other creditors. We can conclude that here the declared principle of this law, the declared principle of trustee equality, is being violated, so that those ordinary, petty trustees of this law will absolutely have absolutely no use. We have information that about a few months ago, the Privatisation Agency liquidated about 300 companies. She did so by creating a big pump in the public: here, preparing for the order of economic operators, clearing the ground, we'll go one way, law and order in this area. In fact, it was just that the liquidated companies that couldn't find a new owner in a few unsuccessful auctions. It is further said that the purpose of this law is to remove those companies that are unable to carry out their work and continue to cost electricity, water, telephone, rent, etc. The easiest thing to do is to liquidate companies, but what did you do, and what does the state do to help some of them? Of course, a large number of companies should be liquidated because of what this law says, but it seems to be your only goal, and what should be the state's interest is not at all your concern. I think it would be better to establish the structure of these companies to be liquidated, to determine the reasons for their indifference, because this law lists only one bankruptcy reason, which is the permanent inability to pay. So, just one reason - permanent inability to pay. Now, I'm asking you, if you're following these laws this harshly, are you going to apply something like this when it comes to family? You know, unfortunately, in Serbia today, there are a huge number of families who have a permanent inability to pay all the utility costs, especially because many families absolutely have no income. Here, let's say, in Nis, the town I come from, we have at least 10,000 families that have no income, at least tens of thousands of families who have huge debts for electricity. When some alignment and some analysis were carried out, there are a large number of families where these electricity debts amount to more than their house and their entire assets. You will probably, by this principle, pass the next law that goes in that direction to liquidate and such families that are unable to pay what they have to pay. What I'm saying is it's not a secret that taxes against the state are the main reasons for the indifference of a large number of companies, and that's why a solution should not only be sought in the Liquidation Act, but a solution should be sought in relation to the state towards companies and economic operators. At first, I mentioned something, and now I'm going to say a little bit more – the various civil servants are completely indistinguishable and different data when it comes to the number of non-equity enterprises. For example, Dinkic says it's about 60,000 companies. The NBS data suggests that some 15,000 companies, companies, are inequitable, six thousand of which have been blocked for more than three years. Serbia's public, however, is most interested in disputed cases of liquidation and bankruptcy. You all know it's big systems such as Belgrade Robing Houses, Ce Market, Belgrade Meat Industry Slavija, the construction company "Rad" etc. Only in some of these companies did 50,000 employees. That's why solving these cases doesn't even require this law that you're making, only the existing Criminal Law is enough. However, I will conclude, the greatest benefit of this law is the bankruptcy managers (I would say – bankruptcy undertakers) and bankruptcy judges. They act as gravediggers; as soon as they see that some of the “retired” are on the exhale, they come and execute its liquidation. The bankruptcy directors were in trust status. It was a confidential business. But now you've made a real profession out of these trusty jobs, and that's the most profitable profession, where the biggest money is turned and where there's the greatest possibility of getting rich. That's why the privatisations you made through your bankruptcy managers caused much more damage than the bombing in 1999 and any tsunami that hit one of the countries where possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30297	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Bortic, and the remaining time for the SPS-JS Group is eight minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30298	The respected chairman-in-Office, respected presidency, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, starting with the fact that Serbian society in general, and in particular Serbia's economy, is going through a complex transition period, unequivocally imposes the need to normatively specify and regulate processes in order to ensure the functioning of operators in market conditions, in order to protect the rights and determine the obligations of all factors in the economy. In this complex process, in which the state, the owners of capital and employees participate, legal regulations are needed in advance to ensure legal certainty in situations where the undertaking is in a financial and business crisis for various reasons. In market conditions, competition and profit capitalism are the only measures of success of each economic operator. However, while respecting these rules, the state cannot allow economic operators to behave unscrupulously in the fight for profit, as the most important objective of capitalism. It was necessary to normatively regulate the rules of conduct in a situation where companies, in conditions of severe competition, are no longer able to make profit and the owners of capital because of this fact are trying to get out of the process of harming themselves without personal harm and responsibility. The current Banking Procedure Act, particularly in the context of the global financial crisis, which has affected our country, has shown that there are not enough legal mechanisms to address problems in the area of business. Therefore, the new bankruptcy law offers additional incentives, primarily to economic operators and also to creditors, to redefine their relations and initiate bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, this law seeks to preserve business activities; that is, if it is not possible to preserve business, to return company assets to use within a short period of time, not waiting for technology to become obsolete and the value of capital to decline. The proposed text of the law as the main indicators of the efficiency of the bankruptcy process inauguration the degree of settlement and length of duration, the cost of the bankruptcy process. The draft bankruptcy law aims to improve the quality of bankruptcy proceedings in the Republic of Serbia, primarily through a higher level of settlement of creditors, through less costs and a reduction of the duration of the bankruptcy process, through the introduction of additional incentives for creditors, in particular for debtors, to timely initiate bankruptcy proceedings and thus overcome the financial difficulties of businesses and to preserve its business. Although the Banking Procedure Act, which was adopted in 2004, significantly improved the bankruptcy process in our country, its five-year application showed that there are a considerable number of problems and that it is necessary to bring mechanisms to resolve them in situations where they accumulate during business. As a result, the bankruptcy law introduces new principles and objectives of the bankruptcy process, provides for bankruptcy reasons, abolishs bankruptcy, provides for provisions on status and the appointment of a bankruptcy manager, as well as the role of its licensing agency, introduces a deadline for applying and beating claims, as well as a number of other regulations. In addition to improving these indicators and the efficiency of the bankruptcy process, the new law aims to overcome the current perception of bankruptcy and to encourage businessmen to consider bankruptcy as an opportunity to solve their financial problems or to start solving them in a faster or more efficient way. In parallel to the bankruptcy law, reasons for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants were imposed. These reasons are considered in the need to comply with the standards governing the work of public agencies with the norms of the new bankruptcy law. The proposed amendments and additions to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Vulneraries shall specify the activities of this Agency and comply with the draft bankruptcy law. This creates conditions for this significant area to be regulated normally and permanently. In addition, this proposed legal text is in line with the Public Agency Act adopted in 2005. Dear fellow MPs, I expect the constructive debate to help the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accept these legal solutions. In voting day, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote for two proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30299	Thank you, Mr. Bortich. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about this bill, we can ask ourselves all of us, and especially those who lost most through the implementation of bankruptcy, which is workers and states, why this kind of strictness training didn't take place in 2001, and not just now, at the end of 2009. This means that Sartid should have happened, the liquidation of Serbian banks, the destruction and kidnapping of companies with attractive building land in their possession, so that you would finally remember to further edit this area. Here's what it looks like in the statement made by Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mladjan Dinkic, from 21 September of this year, which he gave during the release into operation of the automated bankruptcy and electronic reporting system, he says: "If someone has deliberately forced the company into bankruptcy or is headed by a company that has gone bankrupt, they will get a ban on doing the job in the period of two to twelve years. The law will also apply to owners of companies found in the court proceedings to have led to the intentional bankruptcy of the company. “ It turns out, according to the government, that at last someone will bear legal sanctions in connection with the abuse in the bankruptcy process. To punish such irresponsible directors with bans or strict reproofs seems ridiculous, but such is our reality in Serbia. The fact is that the government and Minister Dinkic remembered late to defend companies' assets in bankruptcy now that our economy has been devastated, right after a number of suspicious bankruptcy proceedings. Known state-owned giants and companies with huge assets have just been robbed with the help of bankruptcy experts, mostly in the last few years, more specifically since 2001 and beyond. Now that what's left is left and the privates have come to order, the government has remembered that it's supposed to stand in the way of abuse. The fact that only a few judges and alleged businessmen were arrested a few years ago, so it was celebrated as a major victory over the bankruptcy mafia, is just a smoke screen for the enthusiastic people, who are anyway in anticipation of the famous Dinkic's free actions. Also, a statement by the said minister mentions a future way of choosing a bankruptcy manager. The choice of this manager will take place by, I would say, some bingo system, which is what the minister says – with the help of the computer and the method of random choice, which is once again one insecure and throwing dust into the eyes of the citizens. Then, in that case, commissions should be formed to follow that so-called. The lots of happy bankruptcy managers. The public needs to be provided, and preferably the public is represented by the Public Service. Since all this is impossible, the choice will be made again far from the public's eyes, as it was before, and it will be known where who goes and what needs to be done. It would be good if the representatives of the executive authority told us how far through bankruptcy and what followed from the unrealistic assessment of this country and the workers lost to what they owned, starting with Sartide and beyond. Why do we say that happy bankruptcy managers who draw, with the help of a computer, or someone's hand that commands a computer, are given on a scale of individual businesses to carry out bankruptcy? This is what we heard from the MPs of the SRS – that the interest and calling of the bankruptcy manager can be difficult and 460,000,000 dinars on behalf of the successful bankruptcy process. An individual who has been installed to conduct a bankruptcy procedure can be awarded with one-off amounts, as we have heard, in this case – 460,000,000 dinars. If we look back just a few years ago at how many bankruptcy proceedings are being conducted and how many such bonus rewards are paid to bankruptcy managers, we'll come up with a figure that's probably going to turn into a lot of citizens' heads. That's why we rightly say that extracting the names of bankruptcy managers is quite a lot to gain, and it's a safe win. If someone gets 460,00,000 dinars for their credits in the bankruptcy process, then it's more than anyone would win as a week at the lottery. This is something that looks like credit for the people in the privatisation process, when certain government officials took the billed commission for successfully implemented privatisation, and how successful it is to see the number of unemployed and the number of shut-down companies. What was extorted was the solution, because there was dissatisfaction among the bankruptcy managers, because they thought it was the setting up of the company for bankruptcy to the elected directors, because some had a small bonus, and some needed the bearers to bring millions and millions of blood-produced bonuses... Belgrade and other ports, agricultural goods, cooperatives, trading houses that went into bankruptcy, and they owned large areas of land and business space, which were explicitly renamed after the retail sale of city building land – are the right images and opportunities for the robbery of social and state property. Now we ask you, government representatives - who was responsible for this, who went to prison for it, except for a group around Kljajevic, how much of the property being robbed has been returned to the state and why has the state not responded? And, in the end, which political parties are the bearers of these abuses? These are questions Serbia is asking for an answer and a representative of the government should now answer us. The number of companies in bankruptcy and over which bankruptcy has been completed tells us all about our economy, our government, our transition and our journey to the European Union. Also, the law stipulates that since 31 December 2011, all companies whose accounts are blocked for one year are going into bankruptcy. Since there won't be a pardon for anyone who's been in business for a whole year, I'd like to ask the government's representative if this applies to the state and to the government, or to those who lead it? Isn't the state budget in a fat minus, and you call it a deficit? It takes no longer than 30 days, but more than three years. The deficit is being treated with enormously high loans, no longer measured by millions of euros but by billions of euros, which are not holes, according to Minister Dinkic yesterday, but by the entire ambitions in Serbia's budget. It is known that about six and a half thousand companies whose accounts have been blocked for more than 36 months will go bankrupt soon after automation. What that will mean for workers, the state, will be seen soon, but surely the number of unemployed will increase drastically to a huge number. It also points to the fact that some 20,000 companies are currently in a blockade for more than 30 days. What has been the order of procedures so far to achieve both assets and bonuses in million amounts for sacrificed work, such as the bankruptcy manager, say the RC "Belgrade", such as this, often mentioned yesterday, Moldovan and all those known and unknown Moldovans who had the opportunity to dispose of huge assets? First, the company is driven into loss, not to say disaster, and then declared bankrupt and set off for sale of the company to settle debts. Workers usually stay short sleeves and then we get a chance to see them in front of the government, in front of the Privatisation Agency, in front of the Parliament, in front of the Presidency, looking for rights, and from those who emptied their pockets and left them on the street. When it starts for sale, a well-known buyer, who buys a company at a significantly lower price than the real value, is immediately found, and by doing so, he has already become rich. Some even sold old iron, which turned machines and other means of work, were able to cancel all purchase costs. The land and real estate left things for free, and it has, especially in Belgrade, a value measured by millions. Minister Dinkic himself said yesterday that there were holes in the current law and that there were irregularities and abuses in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings and that now, by this law, the Ministry, i.e. the Government, is correcting them. I ask now, since the law was passed in 2004 while Dinkic was in the then government, why was such a law passed? If they had looked at what the radicals were saying at the time, it would have been evident that we were explaining in an argument what would happen if such a law were passed. This bill is proof, circumstantial, that we were right after all. The question is, why have you been waiting for these changes for five whole years, and you are aware that there were shortcomings in the law? The reason is free – certain jobs should be done, Moldovans should appear. Now you can make whatever laws you want, but your message is this: the main show is over, the rest will be done fairly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30301	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The remaining time for the SRS Parliamentary Group is 29 minutes. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30302	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, on December 19th, Serbia celebrates St. Nicholas, the patron of travellers and sailors. On that day, one half of the citizens celebrates, and the other half goes to glory. This year, Serbian citizens, a large number of Serbian citizens will be able to travel to Europe without visas because our European Parliament counterparts have made a decision to accept an opinion, i.e. They adopted a report proposing to abolish visas for Serbian citizens. So I'm giving up this discussion. Good afternoon, Europe. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30303	Thank you. Although the moment is solemn, I must warn everyone, to warn and ask to return to the joint principled review of the draft bankruptcy law and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants. Please, Mr. Millyvoy, don't do this in the future. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has hundreds of objections to the bill of bankruptcy, which, if time allows, I could explain by tomorrow. The general observation is that the bill was done by a group of novelists. In any case, it wasn't written by professional lawyers. This bill has at least 50% surplus provisions, and a large number of provisions are directly contrary to other applicable laws, both with procedural and material-legal provisions of our positive legislation. I feel free to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill is far more invaluable and ineffective than the current bankruptcy law. Certain norms that provide for the applicable law in any case have better application in practice than this bill. I shall state some remarks: Article 7(1) provides for the principle of imperativeness and pre-inclusion. In this position, it is proposed that bankruptcy proceedings be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this law, if this law is not different. What nonsense and indiscretion, what nonsensical and nonsense! It is governed by this law, if this law is not different. To which lawyer will this provision and this norm be clear in application? "The relevant provisions of the law governing the litigation procedure shall be applied accordingly to issues which are not particularly regulated by this law. “ Mr. Chairman, as an expert and as a longtime respected lawyer, I can only remind you of that and repeat that this has been written by diletaries, and in no case have the lawyers. "The prescribed deadlines are," he says, "pre-inclusive, if this law is not different. “ Are they too involved or not too involved? This article shows a number of ambiguities, inaccuracies. Norma is not clear and logical, which leads to confusion among those who will apply this law. As regards Article 10 of the proposed law (the principle of public and information), it is "a bankruptcy procedure", under the provisions of this article, "public and all participants in the bankruptcy proceedings have the right to timely insight into data relating to the conduct of the proceedings", please be careful what danger and what abuses and what crime is being prepared, "except for data representing a business or official secret", which is decided by a bankruptcy judge, on the proposal of a bankruptcy administrator. Imagine what kind of authority that is! Which authority and which institution in our country can declare on its own what is the official secret, what is a state secret, and what is a business secret? Why hide from the public the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings? This, I repeat, leads to numerous abuses, crime and corruption. As regards Article 11, in Article 11. The draft law prescribes bankruptcy reasons. In point 4(2), the words ‘if the reorganisation plan is implemented’ should be deleted. Imagine, please, in our legal and judicial practice this is not recorded; neither in regular litigation, criminal, executive procedure, administrative procedure this is absolutely not recorded, nor knows our caselaw. It's also not clear what the proper procedure should be against. And this norm is pointless and we believe that in court practice this will not even come to life. As for Articles 12 and 13, they should be deleted because they are really excess, pointless, they have no function in application. What's in Article 13 notice? You see, it's all about the cost of a bankruptcy manager. He's protected here as a white bear, he can't run out of expenses; neither the state nor the bankruptcy judge can stay in debt to him. In Article 14, the Proposer states in which cases the law will not apply. Among other things, the bankruptcy will not be possible over public agencies, banks and insurance companies. What's this? What discrimination! According to everyone in this country, a bankruptcy procedure can be conducted, but according to the agency, insurance companies and banks cannot be managed. They can steal, they can rob, they can do whatever they want, there's no bankruptcy with them, and the creditors remain short sleeves. As for Article 17, the insolvency proceedings are: a bankruptcy judge, a bankruptcy manager, a trustee’s assembly and a trustee’s committee. Imagine, Article 18 regulates the jurisdiction of a bankruptcy judge as an individual, because he himself decides to initiate a previous bankruptcy procedure, appoint and resolve a bankruptcy manager, approves the costs of a bankruptcy procedure, determines the amount of compensation and the costs of a bankruptcy manager and other jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens, by this bill, if adopted, in an anti-constitutional manner in the Republic of Serbia, the jury is abolished, because the bankruptcy judge has the authority to decide on billions, tens or hundreds of billions, that in a bankruptcy procedure he makes his own decisions, and in a litigation procedure bigger, both before the district court and before the Supreme Court, decisions and decisions are taken by the council. When resolved before the municipal court in litigation cases of up to 50,000, 100,000, 200,000 or 500,000 dinars – Mr. Chairman, it is well known to you as a long-standing lawyer and expert – in that case the decision is made by a larger, not an individual. Everything here is left to the will of an individual. What's going on? A bankruptcy judge and a bankruptcy manager will now be able to become the largest bankruptcy mafia. You remember that the bankruptcy mafia in Belgrade committed numerous crimes and numerous abuses. Now this is how the public hides the bankruptcy procedure, the secrecy of the data is declared; they decide for themselves, and when the two are agreed, there is no god, there is only a dust, and the citizens are crying and blaspheming, and the creditors will not be able to obtain their rights that the Constitution and the law guarantee them. As regards Article 19, the legal position and status of the bankruptcy administrator, now being given the status of the official, and even the proposings are also called upon to the Criminal Code. Please, official status is regulated by a number of laws, if you didn't know, and not only by the Criminal Code. Don't tie up here and give him... I'm surprised you didn't give him immunity to go against a thief tomorrow, God forbid, if he gets caught stealing, he doesn't commit a criminal act. Be careful, in Article 20 – the appointment of a bankruptcy manager – the bankruptcy manager is appointed as a bankruptcy judge, and the selection of a bankruptcy manager is done by a method of random selection from the list of bankruptcy managers. There's an alternative way of predicting a possibility here. Wait, please, how does he determine himself now? It is now at the will of the bankruptcy judge what he will do: or he will appoint him, by this first provision, from this list of random samples, or he will cross over and apply some of his practice and determine who he wants from the list. Do you know what kind of diletaries he's got? There are 350 bankruptcy managers, there are excellent and professional people, but you also have diletters on that list, non-professionals. In your practice so far, you have such cases that just inexperiencers and thieves come first, to express themselves, to be hired as bankruptcy managers. Honoring exceptions and honest bankruptcy managers. One of the abuses committed is the case of Agroziva – Mr. Stevan Moldovan, in the bankruptcy procedure "Agroziva", was given a cost of 528,000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry, gentlemen of Parliament, gentlemen of the government, this cannot be made by the government, by the entire government in a month and by all the authorities! Imagine now, when you split 528,000 euros by 20,000 (retirement) you get the information that this sum of 528,000 euros could have cost 23,000 pensions, or 23,000 people with disabilities or assistance for 23,000 people who have lost their jobs and without bread. Ladies and gentlemen, a bankruptcy procedure is currently being conducted in Belgrade before the Court of Commerce in 511 cases, taking into account the liquidation. Where's corruption the biggest? Where there is the most money:corruption in the Trade Court related to the bankruptcy of Sartida, which has been mentioned these days; then, Veterinary Institute in Zemun, "Agroseme" Sremska Mitrovica, "PKB transport" Kragujevac, an affair related to the export of sugar to EU countries, "Yugormedia" Zrenjanin, an affair related to the National Savings Bank, an affair related to the sale of "Mobtel", corruption in Customs, the case of "Ce Market", "Putnika", "Dunav Insurance", "Belgrade Stock Houses". Imagine, at the Belgrade Robing Houses, I have to point out that fact again, it is suspected that the bankruptcy manager has won the bankruptcy procedure from the bankruptcy council, that he has been awarded the award... That should be checked, I asked for that information, but I was not given the exact answer to the parliamentary question. It was supposed to be worth it, and whether it was paid, and it was determined, since the recovery had already been done, and privatisation, 460,000,000 to the bankruptcy administrator! What country do we live in? What democracy? This is anarchy. Privatisation of sugars: “Shajka” frog, “Redka”, “Unity” from Kovacica, “Donji Srem” Caves, “South-West Baka” Bač etc. Just imagine, please, for a moment, that I'd like to state some of the cases, since it was sold to, to whom Panchev was sold and what was sold in Panchev. In Pančevo, almost everything was sold: Veterinary station Pančevo, “Pančevac”, DP “Pansirovina”, “Utva – vehicles”, “HIP – Cybernetic Centre” Pančevo, “Pančevo” industry, “Utva – service” Pančevo, “Tamis”, “Informatika” Pančevo, “Utva - Proing” Pančevo, “Silomont” Pančevo, “Galera Pančevo, “Construktor” Pančevo, “Seme Tamis” Pančevo, “Tamis shop”, “Tamis shop”, “Mine equipment” one and two, “Elpromont” Pančevo, “Gaj” Pančevo, “Staklo” Pančevo, “Pančeva” “Pančeva”, “Pančeva” “Pančeva” “Pančeva” “Pančeva” “Pančeva” is the “Panič, “Pančevršt. I asked a question and I'd like to ask the government to tell me, since Pancheva was sold? There's nothing more to sell. Thirty-five thousand workers on the street, no bread. Poor girl of the regiment. Once, Panchevo had a larger annual gross product and income than all of Montenegro. Now Panchevo's on the beggar stick, but that's why the profiteers... It was easy for Serbian citizens to let thieves drive them out of businesses, drive them out into the street, put them down, and now, through various bankruptcys and various court proceedings, to rob them of naked skin. They've been robbed to the bare skin. I will state the case of the White Church: PIC "South Banat" - The White Church has been sold for 750,000 euros. The workers who delivered the papers ask for a review of PIC privatisation "South Banat" from the White Church; they ask for a revision to establish new skills, and this new skill will provide evidence of how workers claim 36,000,000 euros... Imagine when a company is sold for 750,000 dinars, and it's worth, according to the skills and budget of the workers who are employed in the White Church... The impoverishment of the regiment that remains says - our property taken from us by the Privatisation Agency with the customers is 36,584,000 dinars. What's worse, I can tell you what happened in this privatisation process, what hasn't entered the bankruptcy mass, what's hidden, and what individuals say, workers, have provided for themselves: plant vineyards that have 198 hectares, plant peaches 147 hectares, cherry 18 hectares, pots 7 hectares, plums 12 hectares, apples 375 hectares; agricultural land around 1.578 hectares; building land, irrigation and all that, hard and mobile property workers, vehicles and machinery, did not enter the list of sales. If so, workers are asking for a new list, a new assessment and for the mobsters to be kidnapped and taken away from what they illegally acquired from our citizens. I mention "Recreaturs" Belgrade which had large facilities: "Silver Lake" in Velika Gradište, hotel "Slatina" in Vrnjačka Banja, resort "Golia" Ivanica, hotel "Panorama" on Zlatar, hotel "Olga Dedijer" on Kopalnik, "Biserna coast" in Canja, hotel "Shumadi" in Rafaelovici, as well as other property of great value left in Croatia. There's no telling what's going on in this company right now. I asked a question and I'm looking for an answer – what about the property of "Recreaturs"? As for stevan Moldovan... I'll tell you, for one bankruptcy in the White Church, one bankruptcy manager received 65,000 euros, only at the expense of a small company. As far as Stevan Moldovan is concerned, he is bankrupt in a company called DoO "Bačka" Čonoplja, which is another company in the process - DOO "Parmons" from Novi Sad. In this procedure, the creditors filed criminal charges and, according to their data, against Stevan Moldovan, a criminal proceedings were conducted, a request was made for the conduct of the procedure under number KT 569/09 and an investigation under number KI 147-4/09. It is a number of abuses that need to be reviewed and proved, but such a bankruptcy manager cannot be a bankruptcy manager. To make evil even uglier, to Zrenjanin, as the bankruptcy directors are determined, it's only God knows and no one else knows. On the other hand, when it comes to bankruptcy in Agrolive, the bankruptcy expert is a trustee. Imagine, before the criminal court in Zrenjanin, there is a criminal case, and the art is entrusted to the trustee! Where's that? You, Mr. Novakovic, are a lawyer and an expert, is that possible? Am I lying? Thank you very much. I apologize, my colleagues will continue, and I will, in particular, if I get a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30305	Thank you. Mr. Jeremiah, ten minutes and ten seconds left over. You have your word, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30306	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, perhaps the best picture of the devastating macroeconomic opportunities in Serbia is exactly the laws that are under discussion here in the Assembly yesterday, therefore, the law on peace settlement of labour disputes, or bankruptcy law. Before I commit myself a little bit more to this law today, I would just like to say that in Serbia today we are witnessing an increasingly loud advocacy of the thesis to launch bankruptcy as the only and minor of an ideal solution for all insolvency companies. We from the Serbian Radical Party think it would be much more rational if the Bank's bankruptcy law had been amended to such a extent as to allow flexibility in regulating the reorganisation, so as to increase the chances of the debtor's recovery. We have witnessed that the bankruptcy regulation so far has shown a number of shortcomings in practice. First of all, it was necessary to pay more attention to the removal of all factors causing these procedural and legal misunderstandings, both for the status of creditors and for the status of bankruptcy debtor or bankruptcy mass. What we could see in Serbia over the past few years is that the law on bankruptcy was, in fact, a law on the sale and destruction of property, in some ways and the settlement of taxes and contributions. Through the way it was, it was clear that the recovery of companies through bankruptcy is not available, because unlike the regulated states where an undertaking that cannot fulfil its obligations in bankruptcy and bankruptcy procedure first addresses the court for protection against creditors, and then this mechanism gives a legal framework for a strictly controlled attempt to reorganise the company, puts it on healthy legs, fires excess workers, abolishes some unfavourable contracts, converts debts into ownership or exploits any other option to survive, unfortunately, this was not the case with us. Moreover, there was this recipe in approximately three steps, which is: to disable the reorganisation of businesses and flexibility in employment, then, to have an unreasonable tax system and wait for a simple moment to meet all conditions for bankruptcy and liquidation. It was about a recipe for destroying its own economy, which unfortunately, to a good extent, the government, or government, managed to realize. How do you expect an improvement in this area if the very concept of the law has changed slightly compared to the existing law of 2005? The results are extremely bad. You have a World Bank survey showing that the average duration of the bankruptcy proceedings in Serbia is 2.7 years, which is far longer than in OECD countries where it is 1.7 or in Germany, where the procedure lasts for a year and two months. It is also devastating that trustees in Serbia have met claims at a lower percentage (25.4%), rather than, for example, in neighbouring Romania where this percentage is 29.5 or in Bulgaria - 32.1%), and more than, say, Germany - 52% or OECD countries - 68.6%. The same research shows that the bankruptcy process in Serbia is far more expensive than in any other country, so the cost of the process takes nearly a quarter of the bankruptcy mass, around 23%, while in developed countries it is about 8%. In practice, there are a number of examples where bankruptcy lasted much longer than these researches, i.e. World Bank data, show. What will we experience by applying such a law? Simply, all those companies that have been blocked over a longer or shorter period of time and inactive will practically disappear from the business scene of Serbia, and currently, according to some data, out of 110,000 registered enterprises in Serbia in a blockade of more than half, of which more than 10,000 have a blocked account for more than two or three years. Those in the worst position, which is about 6,500, have the attribute of insolvent enterprises for over three years. The problem in Serbia, among other things, is the fact that there are several hundred bankruptcy managers, but several people are constantly getting jobs. I'm not sure that this problem has been solved by a new legal solution. As you may have already heard, the bill promoter has now been defined as a random or computer choice of manager, but there is a possibility, when it comes to a high-value procedure or a specific case, that the bankruptcy judge will make a direct choice, with an explanation. Of course, we'll probably be witnessing a situation where one bankruptcy judge picks the same bankruptcy director more than once, and it'll become clear to everyone that there's something wrong with it. According to some data, more than 600 bankruptcy procedures are currently under way in Serbia, of which 321 are run by bankruptcy managers, and 279 by the Privatisation Agency, more specifically the Centre for Banks. There are some data from the environment that, for example, in Slovenia there are 1,049 bankruptcy proceedings and there are 108 bankruptcy managers, in BiH about 500 procedures and 194 bankruptcy managers, in Macedonia there are 3,467 bankruptcy proceedings and 202 bankruptcy managers. In the world, when it comes to this matter, there are a total of six bankruptcy systems, and what we're going to accept here is a combination of a German system, which is much more prone to trust, and some solutions from the American system, which obviously becomes a model, which is some kind of two-sided approach, so bankruptcy and reorganisation. The weakness in the new law is above all that it is made for a state with a market economy, and as you well know, there are still many companies in social property. In companies where more than 50% of the book value of the property is cashed, it continues under the old law, and this is precisely the case with the largest bankruptcy proceedings, such as Belgrade Robing Houses, Beka etc. These cases have been going on for many years, and you know the situation of people who have lost their jobs without being able to realize life's existence. So the problems in the economy are piling up and will certainly not be solved by such a bill. What is the biggest problem is the fact that in Serbia, there are more and more people who can't live a man's life every day. It is obvious that one of the reasons why the state is not in a hurry to speed up bankruptcy proceedings, and we have now talked about these data, is the fact that several hundred thousand people have been employed in all these companies, and that the government has no interest in showing up on the labour market so many unemployed. One of the solutions could be through some kind of greenfield investment, but obviously they're very small and they don't exist. The dismissal of workers, the sale of assets, the years of agony and all abuses followed by the current bankruptcy procedure in Serbia are the reason, in fact, why the bankruptcy procedure has one negative connotation here and which is why it is generally considered to be only an extension of the multi-annual agony in which the Serbian economy is located. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30307	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. I have one proposal: since there's only one minute and a half left here, and you as an authorised representative have eight and a half minutes left, I suggest that after I read the call, call and take all ten minutes. Is that okay? Thank you for understanding. Since we have exhausted the time foreseen for the debate and since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, do they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93? Yeah. ) A representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group, Mr Milorad Buha, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we were able to have some information from the minister about the overall process concerning the implementation of all actions yesterday, however, we did not get what is most important in everything – the real analysis, which is necessary to deliver to this assembly and the public, about why we have such a bad situation in Serbia in the field of bankruptcy proceedings. Since Mr. Andric is here, he was directly involved... He can't say right now, but it would be good if, at least after this debate, until the debate in particular, you could introduce us to the details concerning the acceleration of the process, the increase in participation and the percentage of the fees that the creditors receive. Furthermore, let's see what that means in terms of the costs of the procedure. All of this has to show that analysis. I'm afraid you don't have any analysis, as is the case when other regulations are passed. That analysis has to show when we're going to finish these proceedings that last ten, twelve, fifteen years. Yesterday I said, "Yugoscanics" will be 26 years old. It's probably a world record. We do not boast of it, but it is a disgrace to our judicial system, and at the same time to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia who allow such a break in this process. On the other hand, we stressed that bankruptcy managers, given that they are materially interested, are in no hurry, have time, have material resources, have financial resources afterwards. Why would they rush? Instead of a bankruptcy council, we have a bankruptcy manager. Is something going to change? He won't do anything. There will be even more crime after the adoption of this law. As regards the costs of the procedure, that analysis must demonstrate the costs of the procedure. Here, from the data we received yesterday and today we see that in the region we are dominant, with the highest percentage in the bankruptcy rate of what goes on at the cost of the process. The participation in the mass of what relates to the costs of the procedure is 23%, about how much the trustee got. It's a crime. This must not be allowed by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. This law, which changes absolutely nothing, will not speed up the process, nor will the compensation it will receive be increased, nor will we get a reduction in the costs of the procedure. That's tragic. Mr. Andric, you held several press conferences pointing to the positive provisions of this bill and you said this was a reform turn. We heard the same thing five years ago when the law was passed. Nothing's better after that law, nothing's gonna get better after this law. That's why your moral obligation, as a minister's advisor, is to give an analysis, to give the information that you have as a counselor, because you are at the head of the team that prepared this bill. What's tragic is that we currently have 63,000 blocked companies. The total mass that is under the blockade, what is the obligation of the company and those legal entities to the state, is about (from two or three months ago is the data) 280 billion dinars, and now it's probably 300 billion dinars. Over 3.2 billion euros lies in these companies, those legal entities. They're disabled, the state has no use. The bill says you're not going to let it go until a year later. What does that mean? The funds will again be blocked, it will again enter into a certain bankruptcy procedure, and this country, which is in a difficult deficit, will never see the funds from those legal entities. It's even more tragic when it comes to privatisation. We especially need to point to one phenomenon... It's not just a phenomenon, it's so common that you need to worry about the state's organs, because it's nothing to worry about. Privatised enterprises are deliberately debted and relocated, and bank loans and all possible assets are placed in the liquidity position, after which insolvency; they go into bankruptcy proceedings; those who have made the privatisation of all assets, all the assets from those legal entities are transferred to their parent companies and thus commit crime. You know that, and you're not doing anything to stop it. The tycoons that bought dozens of enterprises in privatisation procedures and even bankruptcy privatisations are the main bearers of the phenomenon. But these are your party members, these are people who choose the government; they also boast that they were the creators of certain solutions in the government. These are the people who finance your parties, these are the people who are pulling major moves into political, economic and financial life. They're doing it. You're not doing anything to remove it. Give me one of the companies that you prevented, or the parent or the one that was purchased in the privatisation. Which one did you stop? Now let's get concrete data. Yesterday during the debate, I mentioned the company "Janko Lisjak", which is in the restructuring process. This is not very close matter, but the company has also been in the privatisation process since 2000; it has been brought to the brink of collapse. Of the 2,700 workers, over the last year there were 600 workers, today it is 150 workers. The restructuring process is carried out by the Privatisation Agency, and you from the Ministry directly oversee and control the work of this agency, do nothing to speed up the restructuring process. They have... The value of their assets is 22 billion euros, according to an estimate made a year ago. Their obligations are two billion. End this procedure, but you are not in favor of the completion of this procedure. Why? Because you want to install this company to one of the tycoons. Mentioned was Miskovic, who was to buy 600,000 euros, however, it was not done. He probably wants to devalue that company and then buy it. Just to mention the value of this property, through material goods: 17 hectares of building land in the building zone of Belgrade; 1,400 square meters at a luxury location in the Despot of Stefan; 5,000 meters of square workshops and similar business space; 5,000 meters of square production and industrial space, etc. That's the value of this property. I spoke to the workers as president of the Industry Committee. The workers say openly – don't help us, don't give us crumbs, we want our property, we want it sold, we want to settle what we owe the state and other suppliers. We want to work, we have conditions, we have equipment, we have jobs to deal with. Come on, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. That this agency that doesn't do anything, which is criminalized to the end, let us make normal work possible. People are looking for work. Why don't you let them do it? Speaking of this company, just one example of how criminal activities are being done: namely, in the process of assessing the value of the property, the consultant house "BC consulting" from Belgrade and "Tomic and Partner" from Belgrade conducted an assessment. They left out a business building in the new Belgrade block of 20 total area of 6,000 square meters. The total value of this facility is, in the opinion of those who saw it, over fivem euros. Who cares, five, six, ten million euros. Furthermore, in the privatisation and asset assessment process Svetozar Obrenović, a bankruptcy manager at the time, charged a total, he exceeded what must not be legally, because if a contract is made between the Privatisation Agency... He charged $3,316,630. You see, it's privatisation, it's theft, it's crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30309	Thank you, Mr. Buha. I am concluding a joint principled review of the draft law on bankruptcy and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers. On the basis of Article 85(1), I interrupt today's work (I read what it says in the Rules of Procedure) and schedule a session in 15.00 hours. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to inform you that for the purpose of considering the agenda points from 27 to 30, it is in accordance with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technology Development, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, National Assembly President, also called Svetozar Ciplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, and also Branko Totic, director of the Institute for Intellectual Property, Mirela Boskovic and Mirjana Jelic, assistant director of the Institute for Intellectual Property and Zorica Gulas, head of the Department of Intellectual Property. I ask the service to allow those invited to the session to enter the O.R. and take part in the work. We are moving on to a joint principle search of the 27-30th agenda – THE PROPOSING OF THE LAWS, THE PROTECTION OF TOPOGRAPHY OF INTEGRATED CARS, THE Legal PROTECTION OF THE INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRY AND THE AUTHORITY RIGHTS, THE CONCERNING DECISION OF THE National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on the 27, 28, 29 and 30th points of the agenda, and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group of SRS – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliamentary group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; Parliament group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group of New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I am also informing the National Assembly that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to work on a joint principled search on these points of the agenda: Parliamentarian Jasmina Milosevic – MEP Group SPS - JS, MP Svetlana Stojanović – Parliamentary Group DSS, Parliament MP Gordana Pop-Lazic – SRS and National MP Gorica Mojović – Parliament Group for European Serbia. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft laws on stamps, a bill on the protection of topography of integrated cars, a draft law on the legal protection of industrial design and a draft law on copyright and related rights. Does the proposer's representative, Human and Minority Rights Minister Svetozar Ciplic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, is known that prosperous countries base their economies on the knowledge and development of new technology, largely conditioned by adequate protection of the rights of inventors, authors and other creators. The social environment in which scientists, artists, inventors and other authors are rewarded for their work and in which their creative integrity is respected guarantees integration with the developed world and presents a recommendation for foreign investment. The degree of protection of intellectual property and the attitude of society towards this issue are indicators of cultural enlightenment and the attainment of the civil level of a particular state. An efficient protection system means simply gaining rights and its effective and professional judicial and administrative protection. Only such a system is useful, both for creators and business entities that protect their intellectual property and for consumers and society in general. It contributes to promoting fair competition and fair trade, secures investment recovery and promotes creativity and innovation. The basic assumption for the creation of such a system is the adoption of modern laws in the field of intellectual property. There are currently four such laws before you: copyright law, stamp law, law on legal protection of industrial design and the law on the protection of topography of integrated cars. As regards the draft law on copyright and related rights, it regulates the moral and property rights of authors of artistic, professional and scientific works, as well as the so-called related rights, rights of interpreters, music and film producers, radio and TV broadcasters and database manufacturers. These rights are guaranteed on the principles of the highest international standards and are fully in line with EU rules. The law also regulates the transport of copyrights which is essential for the use of copyright works and the development of cultural industry, which includes publishing, cinematography, music industry, software industry, digital media, entertainment and the like. This industry is also present in our country, and the potential for its further development is unmistakable. The essential elements of the characteristic author's contracts are prescribed: the publishing contract, the representation and performance contracts, the copyright processing contracts, the film work contracts and the copyright contract. The draft law contains provisions on restrictions on copyright in the public interest, which aim to provide uninterrupted information to the public on current events, uninterrupted teaching or the use of work for personal, non-commercial purposes. In order to help persons with special needs, a special provision has been introduced on the basis of which they can, without the permission of the author and without paying compensation, multiply and place on the market copyright works, if those works do not exist in a form which requires their special need and if they do not thus obtain economic benefit. The most significant changes to the current law concern collectively the achievement of copyright and related rights, where there were many problems in practice. Under the applicable law, collective organisations were independently, without the obligation to consult users, fixing the fee for the use of copyright and related rights. As a result of the mass use of these rights, the need to respect the interests of their users, the proposal for this law introduced an obligation for organisations to form their tariffs in agreement with users. In the event of a lack of agreement, organisations will be obliged to address the Commission for copyright and related rights established by the Government on the basis of a public call. In view of the fact that individual exercise of the right to phonogram producer and interpreters is practically impossible because of the scope and method of application of these rights, the bill introduces a mandatory collective exercise of these rights. The draft law regulates judicial protection against copyright infringements and related rights, and penalties for commercial offences and offences have been imposed in the department. For example, a legal person who unauthorizedly publishes a CD will be punished by a fine of 100,000 to three million dinars, and a responsible person with a fine of 50,000 to 200,000 dinars. The bill sets out to comply with the provisions of the applicable law, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as with the developed international legislation in this area. As regards the draft laws on stamps, this law regulates the area of protection of signs used to distinguish goods and services in commercial transport. It is a regulation of exceptional importance for the business of companies on the domestic and international market, as it lays down rules for the acquisition, use and protection of trade marks as a monopoly of legal competition. It is known that the value of the world's famous stamps, but also some domestic ones, has exceeded the value of their owners' material goods and is measured by millions and billions of euros. It is therefore very important that domestic and foreign trade mark owners are guaranteed rights in line with the highest international standards prescribed by the World Trade Organisation, the World Intellectual Property Organisation and the EU. The aim of the proposed law is to remove the observed shortcomings of the applicable law and make the brand recognition process more efficient and simple, with as little cost as possible. The draft trade mark law prescribes conditions for the acquisition of stamps, the process of obtaining and protecting stamps against injuries. In addition to an individual stamp belonging to one entity, the law prescribes conditions for the acquisition and use of collective stamps, which serve to mark the products of several entities that are organised, as well as certified stamps which indicate that goods or services possess a certain quality. As regards the content of the right, the proposed law extends the powers of the trade mark holder. Under the applicable law, the trade mark holder has no right to prohibit the use of stamps on means to mark goods unless they are on the goods themselves. Therefore, the import of counterfeit labels, stickers and bottle caps, if not on the goods, is not considered to be a brand injury. The proposed law removes the above-mentioned deficiency and prescribes that the trade mark holder may prohibit the placing of a protected mark and the means to mark the goods. The draft law defines what is considered an infringement of the trade mark and provides for a judicial protection procedure for the trade mark. Unlike the applicable law, the proposal introduces a complaint against the decisions of the Institute of Intellectual Property. This creates two degrees as the basic principle of administrative procedure and achieves more effective administrative control over the legality of the decisions of this institution. The proposed law creates conditions for fair use of trademarks in commercial transport, as well as for effective control of counterfeiting. The draft law on the legal protection of industrial design guarantees design owners the exclusive rights to use registered design, as well as the right to prevent its unauthorized copying and imitation. Industrial design protects the aesthetic appearance of a product that makes the product attractive and attractive for customers, and, as well as the brand, represents a very significant business benefit for most companies. The proposed law, as well as other laws in the field of intellectual property, regulates the conditions and way of protection for industrial design, determines what is considered a violation of law and regulates judicial protection. Compared to the current law, the proposed law contains the precision of certain definitions, as well as the change of the term "design" to "industry design", which adequately denotes its purpose. As well as the draft law on stamps and this law introduces a complaint against decisions of the Institute of Intellectual Property which decides in the first instance on the fulfilment of the conditions for the protection of industrial design. Adequate protection of industrial design is necessary as a guarantee of a fair match in our country. Finally, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars – this proposal implements the obligation of all Member States of the World Trade Organisation under the IPR Agreement, as an obligation to protect topography of integrated cars. The obligation to provide protection has been prescribed for its members and the European Union by the 1986 Council of Ministers. The subject of topography protection are components that are built into satellites, long-range missiles, computers with large memory, intelligent machines, robots, etc. The law prescribes conditions for the protection of topography, the protection procedure, the restriction of rights for the personal use of topography and use for the purposes of teaching, the transport of rights and protection against infringements of law. The proposed law provides for the protection of topography of integrated cars, a way that is consistent with world standards, a prerequisite for the transfer and application of integrated cars in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and for competition in this area. The proposed solutions are aimed at achieving the development of domestic topography of integrated cars, which has a direct impact on our country's scientific and technological development. The proposal for a law on topography of integrated cars is bringing this matter into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Dear MPs and MPs, I believe that the adoption of the proposed laws will be another important step towards achieving the standards of modern European states. The fact that we are also passing these laws actually tells us that the Republic of Serbia, as soon as it needs to bring them, is a modern, modern European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30312	Do the representatives of the committees want the word, the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Committee on European Integration? Presidents or reporters, if there are any? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs who held the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Committee on European Integration want an opinion? National MPs Srboljub Zivanovic, Marko Milenkovic, Milorad Buha, Sreto Peric and Momir Markovic? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another one in a series of bad and inadmissible laws. If not, today the Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, using what Mr Milivojevic said today, would have come here and so gloriously – come on, come on; remember, it was two years ago – let's go to Europe. Minister Chiplic would not have been thrown in this hot potato if he had answered the MPs' very unpleasant questions about all four laws. That this law is not applicable says that there are 89 members of the law and 35 sides of the reasoning. The worse the law, the bigger the explanation. I expected these two blank sides in this notebook that the bill was filled in, but they seem to have run out of ideas about what else to write. Let's take it in a row. The only difference between this law, the stamp law, and the previous one is that Serbia-Montenegro is deleted and the Republic of Serbia is entered. You could do this, Minister – of course, I do not criticise you, criticise whoever should have come here and explained to us, therefore, Mr Djelic – you could have done this in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to delete in those ten members, where Serbia-Montenegro was located, and that we could have finished the job much faster, easier and easier. You didn't have to rewrite the whole law, because many members, almost all members, from the big letter to the point at the end of the article, were prescribed. I think there's been a waste of work done here. All of this could be with less paper, less money, less engagement and less time spending and you from the government, and us in the National Assembly. He says – harmonising the law with the laws of members of the European Union. I'd like to see where all those adjustments are. When I take the old and new law, and I compare them, I see that apart from what I've said, there are very few of those adjustments and very few differences. What's a stamp? Protective goods... Any company that creates a brand protects its product, so that it cannot be falsified or that those who falsify eventually bear severe sanctions. Did you take care when privatising the amount of property that the state of Serbia had that when you sell, not only sell the factory, but only three or 33 hectares of wages, but only machines, but that in many cases you sell the exact same trademark, that mark, which brings... Minister Ciplic said that in fact, one of the greatest values is that, that mark under which goods will go to market tomorrow. I think that out of all the privatisations I know, only the Apathian brewery has included the brand and today the Intergroup under that brand, under that trademark, is selling an apathic beer across Europe. Let me remind you of the illogicalities that were happening right at "Intergroup", but also with other brewers. For example, Montenegrins sold Niksic a brewery with the trademark of Niksic's brewery. Since a man bought brewers all over eastern Serbia, that is, throughout the Eastern Balkans, when they were on strike, he told them – well, okay, I'll make "no beer" in my brewery in Romania. So he bought the right to brand, bought the right to stamp, and with that stamp he bought and the right to produce his product wherever he wanted and place it where he had reason. I have very little time left, so I won't, but we'll follow the amendments later. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted quite a number of amendments, and we will then according to the amendments on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30314	Before I ask the next MP who sets out an opinion, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Article 85, that we will be working after 1800 hours today; we will continue to search the point that is on the agenda at that time, however, not after 19.00 or 19.15 hours, no more than 19.30 hours. Do any of the other MPs who have singled out an opinion want a word? If so, please register with the electronic voting system. No, I don't. ) National MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30315	Thank you. I have excluded my opinion on the adoption of this law, which is the law on copyright and related rights, because there have been many misunderstandings that are being passed through the members of this law. First of all, I have to say that a special meeting with the parent board, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, has been scheduled by many associations, where they have cited many shortcomings in the drafting of this law. I'm going to try to tell you what all these shortcomings have come up in the making of this law. According to my information, OPFS - Serbia's producer organisation has been granted permission from the Institute for Intellectual Property so that it can perform business in this area as a representative association of producers and thus contribute to the solution of the chaotic status as regards discography. It includes authors of certain works, performers, i.e. Interpretators, phonogram users, manufacturers and emitters, i.e. Radio and TV. This law is needed to introduce order as much as possible in this area because here in the music industry big money is turned around, and the long-term problem is that this money is taken by everyone else, and at least, or not even by those who earned it and to whom it really belongs. This law exclusively mentions existing organisations registered with the Institute of Intellectual Property, and nowhere is the possibility that actors in this area may be other organisations defined by the majority. This means that organisations that do not operate under certain legal rules lose that license. We know that the Institute of Intellectual Property gives permission to work on a particular organisation, we know that it oversees the work of that organisation and withdraws the license. How is it possible that an organisation such as OPFS (it is a discography organisation) has been charging money for three years in Serbia, in its name and on behalf of performers and other participants in this area, and distributes that money on the only known criteria? This organization has five members, a board of directors, and we know that the congregation has six. Mrs. Branka, you're the acting director of the IPR and you've got this material in 19. 04. In 2007, which decidently requires the withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out the activities of the collective achievement and protection of the rights of the phonogram manufacturer. You can see that there are five people sitting here on the board of directors, and in the congregation these same people appear. It is Maxa Ćatovic, Branislav Stojanovic, Bane Lav, Aleksandar Saša Popovic, Fired Zelec from PGP-RTS, who was replaced because he criticised the work of this phonographic institution. Also, others were appointed: this is Petar Djuric, and in his place he was named Slobodan Loka Nesovic. All these people are in the congregation. I wonder how it is possible for the same people to be on the board of directors and in the congregation? You'll probably explain that later. Money is collected in Serbia, 90% flat-rate. On the ground are their people, who for them take money from all those who use a radio or a tape recorder in hair salons, cafes, restaurants, grocery shops; they sort of take that money casually. Only 10% of the radio station pays that so-called. a shirt, which all broadcasters would have to have in order to know whose work they perform that day; apparently, money is paid to those to whom they belong. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to say for a little while that only this organisation of OPFS in 2007 collected 159,000,000 dinars, which is over two million euros. Five years times two million euros, that's ten million euros. Where's the juice? Where is all that money that's been distributed and how it's shared, that's a question that the Institute of Intellectual Property has to resolve, to take away licenses and hand the case over to the competent authorities for lighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30316	Do any of the other MPs who have singled out an opinion want a word? If so, please register in the electronic system. No, I don't. ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, wish to say in a row from the smallest to the largest: the PUPS Parliamentary Group? No, I don't. ( b) A group of minorities? No, I don't. ) New Serbia's MP group, do you want a word? No, I don't. LDP MP group? No, I don't. The SPS-JS Parliamentary Group? No, I don't. () Prosperity Group Forwards Serbia? No, I don't. ( ) DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30317	Dear People's MPs, copyright and related law, industrial design law, stamp law and the law on the protection of topography of integrated cars fall within the area of culture in the broadest sense. For culture in a narrow sense, we've done nothing. We have passed the Culture Act, which has no mechanisms to protect national culture, it has promoted, it has enabled it to develop and become an engine of economic development of the country, export product, industry. We passed the Information Act that kills the public word. If the paper publishes something that one minister doesn't like, he's facing a fine of 20 million dinars and he can put a key in the lock. We adopted and amended the Law on Broadcasting, but we are unable to elect members of the RRA Council who would be the best for the ruling coalition. We are now discussing the laws already passed by the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly in 2004, and on the agenda we do not have those laws to which the Constitution obliges us to adopt them and set a deadline for this - 31 December 2008, and now it is November 2009. We don't have a law on the National Assembly. If the finance minister shuts down the tap, this high house stops working because he doesn't have his own budget. Why are we discussing again the laws we already have and not discussing those we do not have and to whom does the Constitution oblige us to bring them? Let's get in line. The new law on copyright and related rights is passed, so to speak, exclusively to solve a practical problem that emerged in the application of the 2004 Law. Organisations protecting the rights of authors of mass-hearing music have unilaterally cut off the tariffs of users. Users are cafes, discotheques, hotels, hair salons, etc. They are dissatisfied with the forced harak, and the authors, composers and interpreters are dissatisfied with the fees that belong to them in such protection. The newspaper proposed by this law is that the copyrights of this kind are charged collectively. I also think it's the only possible solution. A single tariff for users of mass-hearing music is introduced. This single tariff should be reached in an agreed manner; if it is not reached, the law also provided for the Commission's institute to determine that single tariff. The copyright protection mechanism for works recorded on sound and image carriers, which, apart from music, film and TV shows, is very complex in this law and is dedicated to most of the more than 220 members. I do not support the problem, on the contrary, I believe that it is very serious and that we have to fight piracy, however, the authors whose works are not recorded in their nature on the sound carrier and images will not get the Lex specialis, such as the law on copyright in relation to the Law on Liaison Relations; they remain only the Law on Liabilities, and let them take good care of what contracts they conclude. Even all the pieces that are recorded on sound carriers and images of this law will not be protected. Artistic or classical music is rarely played in cafes, discotheques and hair salons. Are we going to establish a single tariff for pictures per square centimetre of canvas? Books are not recorded on sound carriers, they are printed and sold in bookshops, and the bookstore is almost gone. How is it possible that the copyright law does not deal with authors who barely survive precisely because their copyrights are not protected by law? Culture needs and can bring money when conditions are created for it, which we have failed by this Culture Act to do. Apart from the fact that this new copyright and related law applies to a limited area of copyright, it has more inadequacy. The definition of authors is declarative and general. It is problematicly defined who is all considered the author of a work in which more creators participate. Is the stage designer, for example, coauthor or author of a movie or theatre? Of course, he's the author, except he's not the only one. How can a producer be an author, as the law states? He can't, no matter how much money he invested. He can only be a holder of copyright. How far do copyrights go in a piece called books? Writer, literary translator, lecturer, publisher? None of it's in this law. The law is termologically inconsistencies. The term author is used at first, then extended to the author and co-author, to eventually introduce the term - author and holder of copyright. In addition, it is written so that all authors must be alive to protect their rights. Copyright is, of course, inalienable, but in the protection of copyright there is an author and there is a holder of copyright, legal or physical person whose author consents to resign, more precisely, to sell his rights for a certain time – one year, five years or forever. The author can also keep his rights completely to himself, if he who publishes the work (issuer, record company, etc.) consent to something like that. When the author is no longer alive, copyright holders are his heirs. A more consistent application of the term "author rights holder" may extend the scope of this copyright law and related rights law. Let's conclude this part that applies only to this law. The copyright and related rights law is conceptively bad and could not be corrected by amendments, except in the part that only has the ambition to regulate, in the domain of works recorded on sound carriers and images that are massively exploited (this "use" is the term of the law), which, therefore, brings great money. I don't mind that art brings money, on the contrary, but it was necessary to create conditions, which we failed to do when we adopted a roof or basic cultural law. A new law on the protection of industrial design has been written for the proper application of the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Relations with the EU and harmonisation of legal protection of industrial design with EU guidelines and regulations; it uses the currents of EU legislation in this domain, as well as the solutions reached by the World Trade Organisation and has prescribed them for its members. Compared to the existing 2004 law, this new one brings us changes in the terminology of nature. In line with EU guidelines and regulations, the law no longer uses the term "right to design", but "industry design". I don't mind. To this agreement, Serbia is obliged to the SAA, concluded with the EU, which we are savingly and unilaterally applying unilaterally, to our own damage. The protection design must be suitable for industrial and craft applications. In 2008, we had a total of 504 protected designs of this species, of which 37 foreign, 116 domestic, and based on the Hague arrangement 351. Do we, proposed by law, protect mostly foreign industrial design and domestic only by the way? And we also adopt the Marks Act for the sake of weather harmonisation and harmonisation with European Union regulations. When proposing basic institutes, the proposer managed the solutions of the World Trade Organisation, as well as previous laws. What else is there to add, when smarter and more developed than us have already thought this through? In this group of four laws on which the debate is united, it is my favorite law on the protection of topography of integrated cars. I'll tell you why. In the light of the law, it literally states: “For now, there is no wide production of high - sophisticated products from the domains of integrated cars in which the topography of integrated cars is applied, so far there have been no applications for the protection of topography of integrated cars. Products in which components are connected by topography of integrated circuits are built into satellites, long-range missiles, computers with large memory, pacemakers and the like. “ The end of the reasoning text. It doesn't matter that we don't have such spiritual inventions, one day we will have; it's important that we have the law first, because of foreign patents, of course. The discussion of the 58 points of the agenda, which we are currently conducting, will entertain citizens who are monitoring the work of the National Assembly. Maybe they won't notice they're unemployed and hungry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30318	Does the word want an authorised representative or president of the G 17 Plus Group? No, I don't. ) Authorised representative of the SRS, Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30319	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you are always welcome in parliament and you are certainly relevant to these laws, as former Constitutional Court judge and prominent lawyer (at the time you were a non-party figure in the Constitutional Court), but do not follow this area and I assume you do not know what the problems are in implementing the law so far. I really think it's the government's fault that she didn't send us to the House of Ministers who would have to follow this area. You're in charge of tracking one completely different area, and I assume you're much more competent to do that. What is it? It's here. In addition to you is the director of the Institute of Intellectual Property. You can see that this law they've been working on and I assume they'll assist you when it comes to the questions we're going to ask you. Serbia has had an IPR for 84 years. We, through the Kingdom of Serbia, are one of 11 founding countries of the Paris Union, back in 1883. It has been 89 years since the first industrial property regulation. It's not something new to us, but it's a question of how the state and society treat intellectual property in the first place. Unfortunately, as you can see, neither the government nor parliamentarians are concerned with the duty of attention to this issue; the government has not sent a minister who would have to follow this area. Some laws are passed that are practically indicative, systemically for this matter. His interest should be that he's here, but I assume he went with Boris Tadic to Italy. You weren't so lucky. A third of our government is abroad now, so to speak, exile. You see, even gentlemen MPs do not report that they are talking about this law, they are not even registered on this list, after representatives of the parliamentary groups have spoken – seven Serbian Radical Party MPs and two other MPs from other parliamentary groups have been reported. You don't understand the seriousness of these laws. There's a big circle of people interested in this set of laws. It's, first of all, the owners or intellectual property holders, let's say that they are the smallest number, and then a large number of those... I'm going to say it right now, because I'm mostly going to talk about the draft law on copyright and related rights, and then my colleagues are going to talk about other laws, it's 120,000 owners of business entities, the owner of a place where there's some work going on, like, listening to music. If the citizens of Serbia listen to me, I suggest they listen to them until the end, because they will realize that in fact all of us who enter any object in which you hear music in some way are interested in this bill, because all these people who have a bakery, a grocery store, a hair salon, a shoe shop, and they're playing music, have to pay a fee for that kind of thing. They, of course, have to come after us, the users of their services, so we don't pay for the haircut to cut 600 dinars, but a little bit more, because he's supposed to pay 30,000 a year, let's say, because he's playing music on some sound carrier in his bar. These laws, at least for that matter, and how they intrigue us all. Is that how it's supposed to be? Then I'll explain why we don't think it should be like that. "The song has kept us, thank her," so let anyone who wants to sing sing sing. I do not argue that the problem these laws treat is very important, because our country and our society are at all arrogant about intellectual property. I explained that, and here is the picture, and you remember that we passed the Law on Administrative Taxes, where we significantly (that is, the parliamentary majority decided so) increased the fees, let's say, for the registration of patents. Here, there's the director of the IPR. He probably knows how many patents have been reported this year. As far as I know, as far as I could get the data, only 20, all colleges, institutes, here, and individuals, and that's much less than the previous years. What does that mean? If someone has to pay, now I can't remember exactly, but I think it was 40,000-50,000 to report, protect some patent, he has to do it this year, and next year and next, otherwise his patent becomes general good, which everyone can use, and there's no more protection. Did we thus virtually make it impossible for many people to protect their intellectual property? We did, and then we talked about it the way we talked, but he didn't have anyone to hear us. Some of these laws were passed in 2003, 2004 and 2005, and here are the new draft laws. Only in this law of copyright and related rights did almost 90% of the matter remain unchanged. My colleagues who issued an opinion on the committee in charge ask, and I ask that question – why did you resort to the adoption of new laws if it was possible to go through amendments and additions to the law? I repeat, I do not really dispute the importance of these laws, but in this country there are much, much more important things to talk about, above all, about this agreement Cvetkovic - Canak, instead of Cvetkovic - representatives of parliamentary groups in this House. Of course, I only think about parliamentary parties that were in the elections, not those that are self-willed by the parliamentary majority and whose leader is roasting today, because it's too hot in the barrel, so you can't wait for the rakija to bake. Of course, there is also a problem of breaking up Republika Srpska and adopting the statutes of Vojvodina and opening opportunities for some future secession. This is all what we would like to talk about in some different, better circumstances, where the position and the opposition would really talk about, because parliament is for dealing with attitudes. Unfortunately, we have no one to face because the position is uninterested. She's only here when she has to pass the law. I therefore propose, on behalf of the parliamentary group, that I accept and take responsibility for it, to amend the Rules of Procedure, to abolish the right to talk about laws, to submit amendments; to bring those 400 kilograms of legislation that you need to pass in order to comply with the laws of the European Union; to end this in two or three days, how long it takes you to press the buttons, and then to start dealing with these issues that are vital to us, first of all I mean the economy of Serbia and the long-term vision of how this economy should look. So, all these laws that we're talking about today are being passed for protection, they should be passed to protect the rights of authors, interpreters, other intellectual property holders, not organisations that should protect them. You say – because of the need to specify certain legal solutions, above all in parts called "collective achievement" and "related rights". For these reasons, I think you could suggest amendments and additions to the law. But what's the problem with you? The problem is how to form tariffs for collectively achieving copyright and related rights. The new law obliges the organisation to set the tariff through negotiations with users, not to be an expression of the will of only one party, as it has been so far, so now one of those 70 - 80 inspectors, purse, bow, enters a hair salon... I even have one record here, I got it from my hairdresser I'm going to. I asked him – are these coming to you, are you really paying? I just couldn't believe it was happening. He says there is one, but there are two or three; there are several of those organizations that I have to pay annually. Then they lose as much as there are chairs, so they charge as handsomely as they think they should. Come on, what do they charge for, maybe it's not that big a deal, but who do they charge for? Where's the money going? Do authors and performers get any of that money? You probably don't communicate with them, but tell Mr. Djelic – let the artists ask how much they get annually, the music authors most often listen to, performers who listen most often, the "hit hits". There are no more of those "golden panels" etc. There's no money anywhere. There's a huge amount of money going around and there's a huge crime; I have to say, in part, consciously or unconsciously, under the auspices of the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property, because the Institute would have to control these organizations as they work, in whose name they work. We've even come up with some data, somehow information crashes with us, that one of these organizations, and it's called OFFS, let's say, borrows some fourteen million to one firm that's a member of that OFFS, a private agency that brings these foreign singers and organizes some concerts here. Where she gets the right to do something like that, whether or not taxes are paid, no one knows. In fact, I want to point out that money doesn't come to those whose rights are being protected and that even with this bill, you haven't been able to overcome it. Try it there, because you can see that the law is only for them, only because of the phonogram. Not everyone knows what a phonogram is, so now I have to explain it. It's a sound carrier, whether it's a record, whether it's a tape, whether it's a CD. When the manufacturer of that phonogram produces this product, like when someone makes this pen, it puts it on the market and sells it, it earns something, but now because someone uses it, it wants to earn something else. It's like when you put on something Versace company on you, you walk down the street, you pay that firm o-ho-ho, and now someone from Versace meets you and says, "Oh, our model, you have to pay this much more, on the road or on the pot, because you wear this model. That's exactly what you're talking about. Now it's much more important that someone who printed an art, whether it's a film, whether it's music, than the one who created it or who did it. He has more rights and he raises more resources than he does. So we've tried to suppress piracy through the Criminal Law and I think it's successfully contained and contained. Why do we now give the possibility that those who only print this product, or record some work of art, can make such income? It's something unheard of. And they don't have any way of following that money they're picking up... This is about huge money. For example, only one of these organisations that protects the rights of performers and authors for the last five years has collected tenm euros. Where's that money, if they didn't come back, most of it, to those who were supposed to be returned? Ask any artist how much money he's got this year from his music constantly "turning" on the radio, television, or at those facilities. We are in principle against the fact that there is even a charge of any tax in objects where music is heard. It used to be that - pay the money for the music, but when the music is alive, so the waiter charge you for it at the restaurant. But, I'm sorry, that at the bakery and the hair salon, because someone, for example, keeps playing one of those same CDs, someone wants to listen to Mozart, you have to pay Mozart... Who's gonna go after that money? That's totally illusory. I'm talking about it so plastically because I think our artists and creators are cut off, maybe because the market is this small, and they're very, very different quality, of course; as they say, a small bar and a lot of crocodiles. They don't get anything, or very little. Now someone that's kind of ominous or by how much anyone has printed this year those phonograms, the sound carrier... Let's say, "Grand Production" is the most printed and they'll get the most, I mean "Pink", and Sasha and Bren, and it's known that, say, PGP RTS is the most listener, and that it has the highest number of sound carriers, because some music is heard for 40 or 50 years, maybe even listens more than these Sashini and Brenini who recorded yesterday, interrupts a song. I'm not saying it's not good, it might be heard in 50 years, but it's not a criterion. See how much ‘Pink’ is charged by OFFS and how many other discographers. So you seem to be the only ones who bring this law to them. Believe me, Minister, you don't know what's going on here, but this is obvious when you read the law, when you see what those in this business say, those who escaped from this organization, like PGP RTS representatives, then you see what crime is like. If it takes "Pink" to be favored in this way, to dedicate five hours to the parliament, and I see that many will not speak, those who have excellent relations with Zeljko Mitrovica, will not be offended, here, we will say today what we think about it. So when we say collective rights of authors and holders of copyright and related rights, it is primarily thought of these musical works and of phonograms and recorded interpretations. The goal should be for right-holders to receive adequate compensation. The manufacturers, I already explained, belong to the right to compensation on one basis, these on another basis, but the methodology is not adequately done. I just wanted to read to you who needs to be calmed down, he says: “Three music - listening fees – the owner of a 50 - square - square - square store must pay about 30,000 dinars per year, the SOKOJ, the OFFPS performers should be calmed. "A little over a year ago in Belgrade, I opened a cosmetics store in the Old Town municipality. A man recently came into it who introduced himself as an inspector and asked to see the device I'm playing music with at the bar. Confused, I showed him a CD player, and he told me that he is the controller of the Organisation of the Producers of Serbia (OFPS) and asked me to pay a certain amount to the gyro-account of this organisation because I play music." This is how the story begins (from the newspaper I took this clip) by a Belgrade reader, one of many fellow citizens who have recently met with music inspectors. "He left a card and a flyer and explained to me that I am obliged to play music in this organization annually to pay ten and a half thousand, or eight thousand and two hundred, with a 30% discount if I pay within seven days." This is really funny. "I told him not to turn on the radio, not on the music at home, but on a daily basis I would spin the same disc with jazz music. He replied that they protect both domestic and world record houses and that I still have to pay for one as if I were playing a hundred different discs." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30320	Does he want a word from an authorised representative of the ZES Group? Gorica Mojovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30321	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Institute of Intellectual Property, before I say something more concrete about the very content of the laws that are on the agenda, I would especially like, unlike some of my colleagues, to point out and praise the arguments given under these laws. I think that in the assembly procedure we almost did not have such a thorough, comprehensive and precise explanation that not only contains reasons why these laws are adopted and called for domestic and international regulations, conventions and directives (mainly those which our country has signed and is obliged to respect them), but also to call on those conventions, contracts and directives that we follow just following some EU standards. What I also think is important, regardless of the objections that have been heard in this debate, about a large number of members who are in the same content and in the existing laws, is exactly what I would like to praise, and that is why these laws are changing, which we are in the application of existing rules. This application has shown that there are certain problems and that therefore these problems and objections that arise in the public should be corrected by certain provisions of the laws adopted in 2004 and 2005. In particular, I would like to highlight the insistence of the promoters and authors, i.e. the most active participant in the adoption of the proposal for this law, which is the Institute for Intellectual Property, that through a public debate (and the report on it is also contained in the reasoning of the law) there are as many better solutions as possible, as well as the guidance of all those proposals from the public debate which the Ministry of Science and Technological Development has accepted and installed in the legislative proposal. Of course, many examples of practices that point to the lack of existing solutions, as well as a number of interesting data and effects on the application of existing laws, such as that of the SOKOJ, which deals with the payment of copyright for the authors of music works, were provided in 2008, which I consider to be an extremely high percentage. In view of the fact that these funds are of some kind, not to be exaggerated, but they are, the commissions to perform the work on behalf of the music authors, as well as the circumstance that this organisation is not the only source of income, then the question is whether this amount of work is extremely high? But that's not our problem, that's a problem that needs to be addressed and the board of directors of this organization, but also other SOKOJ authorities, and the authors who gave them the power of attorney to charge this compensation on their behalf. What I find positive is the introduction of a mandatory revision when it comes to the work of these organisations. I read in the explanation that they've been doing it voluntarily so far, and now it becomes a commitment. What is interesting, in such a precise indication of the work of organisations registered to carry out the collective exercise of copyrights and related rights, there is no record of the organisation of Serbia's phonograph producer, which has since the adoption of the previous 2004 law, collected a unique compensation for broadcasting and public disclosure of phonograms and recorded interpretations. I think there's one of the essential reasons why this law is changing. The remarks heard at the expense of this organization today and in the public debate, both in practice and in life were one of the important reasons why this law proposed a different solution when it comes to determining an organisation which will deal with the collection of a single compensation. The detailed report we received in the light of these laws on public hearings shows, as far as I'm concerned, a very interesting fact – the complete absence of the interest of art associations in this matter. We recently had a debate and passed the Culture Act. For this law, the art associations were very interested, very actively taking part in the adoption of the law, and for these almost no one. This gives me the right to assume that artists, i.e. those who represent them through artistic associations, are much more interested in how they will be provided through the institutions of the system and from the budget with some kind of security, and much less how to provide that security through fees for their work, or copyright, and how organisations that charge for these incomes on their behalf do so. How much was the debate on providing funds for the payment of social contributions to artists, and all expected to be provided from the budget, which is ultimately laid down by the Cultural Law. I just read about the income, for example, SOKOJ; these funds can also be used to improve the social, health or pension status of the author. Interestingly, the public call for a debate on the Bill on Legal Protection of Industrial Design did not respond or involve the Association of Fine Arts and Applied Artists and Designers of Serbia, which brings together the largest number of authors. Not all of them are art designers, the largest number of them deal with industrial design. Given the absence and interest of art associations, the Committee on Culture and Information organised a public debate on these laws on 30 October. The president of the Committee on Science and Technological Development also attended the public debate. I have to say, only one representative of the art associations showed up on that occasion. This debate, as well as previous ones in the process of formulating the bill, dealt most with copyright and related rights, and that of the most important newspapers that this law adopts. Some of them I'll mention. Some have been mentioned in the debate so far. It is about an organisation that will have the right to charge a unique fee for broadcasting and public disclosure of a published phonogram and interpretation on such a phonogram. I think this is a solution proposed by law very well because it provides for agreement and contract. What is lacking in him, and what if there is no treaty? I hope that our parent committee will propose an amendment to which this situation will be envisaged and that the danger removed. So far, we have had the opportunity to hear that users tend to complain about the height of those compensations. The law brings one of the most important newspapers, related to future and users, and indeed many of them, from concert organizers, cultural event organizers, to the already mentioned owners of hairdressing, catering and other shops, are entitled to influence the adoption of tariffs for a single compensation, not only through negotiations with an organisation that will charge for it, but also through the work of the copyright commission. I think it is one of the very important newspapers that this law adopts to form a copyright commission, which the Serbian government is forming and will be composed of representatives of all concerned. Unfortunately, in this case, the law did not foresee what if no single tariff agreement was reached on which the commission, under the bill, only has the right to give its opinion. I also expect that we will adopt an amendment that will address the situation in which there will be no agreement. There are many more important newspapers in this law, but I would point out only one more, and it concerns copyright restrictions in favour of people with disabilities. Thanks to the very solutions in this law, the availability of copyright works and these individuals will be easier. The Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design definitely introduces a legal term that is common even in practice – it is about industrial design. It allows for the right to appeal and conduct a second-degree procedure in relation to decisions taken by the Institute of Intellectual Property. Here, another commendation was made to the Institute that, as well as in the Marks Act, it proposed that some kind of own monopoly be taken away, i.e. allowing the second-degree procedure to exercise the right to appeal in relation to their decisions. In general, solutions in this law, as well as in the trade mark law, aim to strengthen the legal protection of rightholders to industrial design (or trade mark holders) and to achieve greater efficiency in the legal protection of industrial design and trade mark holders. Let me just say one more sentence about the stamp law. What seems important to me is that, in addition to the cases of trademark protection, there are intended cases of a ban on protection, especially in cases where state symbols, or commercialization, are used, when religious symbols are used in certain situations. It is truly a pleasure to invite my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to vote for these, in my opinion very good, laws, as the MEP Group of ZES will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30322	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, the Prosperity Group, Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party MP group. We move to part of the session according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 27, 28, 29 and 30 of the agenda. The first was announced by the MP Zlata Djeric, followed by MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Chairman, respected members of the ministry, we have before us a set of laws from an area that has already been regulated in some way, given that Serbia has so far signed over 13 international conventions, agreements, agreements, which it must bring this area into line with the EU, and the EU Council has brought legal legislation on the protection of this area back in 1991. I think these laws are very important. In the opening statement, the minister himself said that modern technologies are actually what made the need for these laws to be passed, but I don't see that this very modern technology is sufficiently and ultimately protected, because when we talk about copyright law and at all about authors, the author's work, what is intellectual property, then it's always hard to assess values, and when we talk about modern technologies, above all information technologies, or software technologies, then these laws are not sufficiently protected. I'm also interested in the longevity, or predicting these laws. We like to say that we look up to the EU and European countries, which is not controversial, we need to look at a lot of how some others have done before us, that we don't always have to look for a hole in the pot, but we say that some countries in some areas have laws several centuries old, centuries or tens of years old, and we, by the speed of change and law-making, belong to countries that are very fast. We're pretty slow in other fields, but we're very fast here. First of all, it shows our superficiality in the approach to adopting legal legislation and predicting what a law should include. Let's just say, I'm interested in why in the brand law, which the minister talked about a lot, we haven't one general law arranged all possible stamps and even predicted everything about watermarks and e-marks in a single legal project, that we don't have a specific legal solution on every area? As for copyright and related rights, we have submitted some amendments, expecting that amendments to other parliamentary groups that really well-intentionedly want to contribute to the benefit of Serbian citizens, and most of all to be beneficial to authors and creators, to those who give this intellectual property to the benefit of everyone else, not to those who are intellectually property, works of art and other things, or, as our people say popularly, to take off the kamak. Previous colleagues spoke very vividly and convincingly. I really hope that we will find ways, opportunities and wills to adopt a number of amendments of MPs who have followed these bill proposals and thus come out to meet those who deserve to benefit from these laws, and to make it impossible for those for whom, in part or in large part, some of these legal solutions have been made. Because when we got a better look at it, we came to the fact that yet the important factor here is the redistribution of money, or the excess of one user's money to another, through the collection of various intellectual property rights, copyright rights. We really want, first of all, the authors and the creators, the creators, whatever they call them, because it's hard to create any work, it's easy to destroy, being the ones who benefit most from it. One such legal project must be adopted in this parliament and it will then be good for all Serbian citizens. In the debate in particular, we will defend our amendments. We will probably support the amendments of other colleagues we consider to be of high quality and useful. We expect the ministers to have understanding before us and accept them. I think Mr. Minister, who has good will and free time to be with us today... I'm not sure these laws are in his jurisdiction, but thank him for at least finding the time to explain these laws today. It would be much better if it made it a minister whose competence would be to control the implementation of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30324	The People's MP Igor Becic has the word, followed by the MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30325	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, we now have the terminology of some laws on the agenda, and in this regard, the Government has informed us that at the National Assembly, Svetozar Ciplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, will be present when considering these draft laws. With all due respect to Mr. Minister, we did expect Mr. Djelic, Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, to explain to us why these laws have priority over the laws for which it is much more important to enter the assembly procedure. This, in my opinion, is as if we give the worker a working combination here, and then we send him on a forced vacation, because industrial production in Serbia is twice as small as 2000; the number of employees is 300,000, and only in the last elections did we have a promise of over 500,000 jobs. Industrial production was less than 20% last year, and the largest reduction in the number of employees during this period was: textiles industry by 75,000, motor vehicles and trailers - 28,000, basic metals - 27,000 and food production also for 27,000. The devastating fact is that the industry accounts for only 15% of Serbia's GDP. For years, we have nothing to export; so half of industrial production and exports depend on how modern steel works. Bank services and telecommunications cannot be exported, and we are investing the most in these sectors in recent years. The former industrial giants have been dragging the entire economy into losses and debts for over a decade. In the last year alone, 900 large companies, which account for 1,03% of the total number of enterprises, made 71,000,000,000 dinars of losses, so they drove the entire economy down to a minus 37,000 million dinars. Since 2003, since the NBS announced the results of the business of the Serbian economy, large enterprises have lost more than 240,000,000 dinars; 900 large enterprises are making two-thirds of the losses, and two-thirds of these companies have failed and this is a major problem. The losses ate the capital of these companies, and that's why they're now inequitable. If the big ones don't pay the suppliers, then these guys can't pay their dues, and then the whole economy's inequitable. The losses destroyed Serbia. The solution for them is a recovery, but no one's talking about it, while our ministers are talking about nebuloses. If this government is another year or two, the entire economy will go bankrupt, which means they won't be able to pay their debts. The government must also think about the economy, not just the budget, and not just because basic capital melts year after year, but swims in debt, which are often the biggest obstacle for these companies to find buyers. The debts of large enterprises at the end of 2008 amounted to 1,500 billion dinars, of which 200 billion are only interest. The problem isn't the global crisis, it's our crisis, and it's the lack of long-term capital. In Serbia after 2000, wherever the "fried country" method is applied, which has also been done by the industry... We are convinced that the rapid liberalisation of the market and the reduction of customs duties on imports, combined with the overrated dinar, brought about the collapse of industrial production. The overrated dinar made imports cheaper, so our companies couldn't be competitive on the market. The fallen giants are not only a problem for the economy, they are also a social problem, because they employ more than 450,000 people, or more than 45% of the total employees in Serbia. Not only are social enterprises a stone around the neck of the Serbian economy. Many losses of real and public enterprises, i.e. state-owned companies, which, despite the monopoly, expose citizens to the highest prices and the lowest quality. The biggest losers are the EPS, with less than 300m euros in last year, which is 7.3% of the loss of the entire Serbian economy. If it's comforting, it's four times less than in 2007. The second biggest loser, and the problem of our economy can be said freely, is "Serb Railways", which lost 195,000 euros in their business last year, and that is three times more than in 2007. The third is JAT, with 88,000,000 euros. We also see that there are amended final accounts, so the NIS goes from winning to losing more than eight million euros. The tradition in protecting industrial property in Serbia is longer than a century. The Kingdom of Serbia is one of 11 countries that founded the Paris Union by signing the Paris Convention on Industrial Property Protection in 1883. Already in 1884, the Kingdom of Serbia passed the first laws in the area of industrial property: the Law on factory and trade stamps and the Act on Industrial Mustars and Models. After World War I, the newly formed Kingdom of SHS founded the Industrial Property Protection Authority in the royal regulation of 15 November 1920. It thus fulfilled the obligation of the Paris Convention to establish a single administration that will deal with the recognition of industrial property rights and to issue an official messenger in which these rights will be published. By fostering legal continuity from previous countries and respecting the essence of the intellectual property rights of all countries and regimes in the area of former Yugoslavia have regulated the area of industrial property and copyright at the level of central government. Such a situation was maintained until the adoption of the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of SCG on 4 February 2003, when there was division of jurisdiction, so that the state community has the power to adopt rules that have materially regulated certain intellectual property rights. The exercise of these rights has been transposed into the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. In 2004, the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly adopted five new laws in the field of intellectual property: patent law (2 July 2004), the Copyright and Related Rights Act, the Marks Act, the Law on Legal Protection of Design and the Law on the Protection of Topographic Integrated Cars (all 24 December 2004). These laws have been adopted in full compliance with the requirements of the World Trade Organisation, i.e. the IPR Agreement, as one of the key agreements on which the World Trade Organisation rests. All laws are in line with the relevant methodological conventions which have been accessed since the last major revision of the law in this matter, which was carried out between 1995 and 1998. In particular, it is calculated that these new laws, according to those proposals, are in line with the relevant EU rules. In the area of stamps in force are: The Marks Act, as I said in 2004, International Classification of Goods and Services, Nvatan Agreement, Madrid Agreement on International Registration of Marks, Protocol with Madrid Agreement on International Registration of Marks, Nairobi Agreement on International Registration of Marks, Nairobi Treaty on the Protection of Olympic Symbols, Treaty on Marking Law. In 2008 alone, 9.536 stamp applications were submitted. It's 78% foreign and 22% domestic. In 2008, domestic companies submitted 286 applications for international trade mark registration. Before export it is important to protect copyright or industrial property rights. An active relationship with the brand and the creation of its identity on the foreign market is a good way for the company to take its place among strong competition. With relatively small cost, copyright and industrial property rights should be protected. Otherwise, there is a possibility that competition will come with the same product and name and harvest the fruits of hard work and investment. Protection should be sought at the State Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property, whose assistant we discussed the process of creating, registering, maintaining a good trade mark, defining the idea of a good brand used in Serbia. From a legal point of view, it's inappropriate to call it a brand, and in fact it has a legal term, a brand. The brand is a legally protected sign used to mark similar goods or services by one transport participant in order to distinguish it from the same and similar goods or services of another transport participant. By its definition, the mark always has two parts. They are only a sign, and a list of goods and services to which it is applied and for which it is protected. The recognised right to the stamp is exclusively the right of its holder. The holder can keep it for himself, can use it, sell it, rent it or give permission to use it and the like. In abroad, the creation of a good trade mark must precede detailed harmonisation and market analysis and setting targets that the company wants to achieve. It is certainly easier to adapt to introducing branding into a foreign market in that product range and in a way that does not work by competition, as consumers can then see it faster and better quality. In most countries in the world, the sign can be very different. A brand can protect a word, a combination of certain letters, a style, as well as words or a combination of slogans, with a specific graphic solution or a company logo. In order to protect a particular sign abroad, the manufacturer must fulfil two basic conditions: that the sign is similar, that it does not exclusively refer to the characteristics of products and services and is not similar to those previously protected on a given territory. When the company has a brand that protected national territory, which did not do so abroad, any foreign company can protect an identical sign for the same type of goods or services in its country and thus prevent imports into that country. In that case, exports are disabled, and the company must obtain the consent of that legal entity, which it normally pays because it represents some kind of licence. The practice has shown that some producers have often agreed to protect the brand abroad, which is otherwise protected on the market for producers, because of the lack of information and possible savings when importing goods abroad, in order to save them. This is a bad variant because the importer has to constantly adapt to the requirements of a foreign partner, making significantly less money than he could have protected the sign himself. Time and mode of communication with consumers should be carefully chosen, so that the trade mark is noticed and accepted in an adequate manner. In further development of the brand product on the foreign market, the key role plays a continuity and quality of the product, so that the consumer always knows what he buys for his money. The brand protection process is very simple. It is necessary to submit a stamp application containing several basic elements: a request for the recognition of the stamp, the appearance of the mark for which protection is sought and the list of services to which that mark applies. Such a application receives its regular number, then enters a regular procedure, which usually takes about a year and a half. In the event that an international trade mark application is submitted, it may also be protected by an emergency procedure, which ends within two to three weeks. The international trade mark application process is similar to ours, given that the state of Serbia is a member of the Madrid Agreement, based on which only one application can protect the trade mark in as many as 70 countries in the world. The procedure for registering stamps abroad is initiated by submitting a domestic application with the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property. If the application lists the Member States of the Madrid Agreement, then the application may only be submitted where the home stamp is registered. After receiving a national application, its examination shall be carried out by emergency procedure. If the application is found to meet all the prescribed conditions, the company is required to pay a certain amount, registration and publication fee, as well as a fee to the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organisation in Geneva for the submission of an international application. Following the payment made, the registered national stamp is forwarded to the International Bureau, which is obliged to register the stamp and to publish it as an international recognition in its publication of international stamps. The cost of protection of the trade mark depends on the number of countries from which protection is sought. The costs are much higher if the sign is protected only in certain countries, where the application is submitted under the Madrid Protocol, but when it appears to be for all countries under the Madrid Agreement. In the event that the costs of registration of one sign are between 25,000 and 30,000 Swiss francs, of course, the company can only protect the mark for those markets for which it is interested and to the number of classes for which it is necessary. If someone wanted to protect the sign in all 50 countries of the Madrid arrangement, then the costs would be significantly lower and would be tens of thousands of Swiss francs, which is a relatively modest amount for a certain kind of monopoly rights that you get. What is significant is that all rights recognised are limited by a time period and subject to certain conditions, and cancellation, or termination of validity. The brand should last ten years, and then it can be restored. The biggest brands, especially world-renowned ones, appear overnight. The very communication of brand to consumers today, thanks to written media, television, more and more Internet, can be achieved significantly faster and more efficiently than 20 or 40 years ago. In addition to the fact that there is no culture in Serbia for the protection of intellectual property, according to the "Madrid Express", in Serbia's territory, only about 800 stamps are protected on the foreign market, which also does not mean that 800 companies have protected the signs. Recently, however, a growing number of applications for the protection of international stamps have been filed by small and medium-sized enterprises. The best chances for successful placement on the foreign market have products produced in a traditional way (the concept of healthy food), high quality. With us, as a rule, when someone comes to the market, their product is of high quality, but when it begins to conquer the market, that quality begins to decline. The firm views on the values some brand has in consumers are being built on a continuous basis, over a long period of years. In order to achieve this, significant investments in marketing, sales, distribution are needed, in order to achieve as much as possible the presence of products in sales places. Foreign market research needs to be carried out continuously in order to move new products towards product consumption trends in order to meet consumer requirements. As far as the law itself is concerned, we see here a termological alignment – let's say, Article 1 defines the subject of legal regulation, as well as the concept of a stamp. The brand is defined as a right to protect a sign that serves to distinguish goods, i.e. services of natural or legal persons, so that the concept includes rights entities – physical and legal persons. Markers can only be road users. The Republic of Serbia is signatories of the Madrid Agreement on International Registration of Marks and Protocols with the Madrid Agreement on International Registration of Stamps. Article 2 defines the collective mark and guarantees. We see that it is mostly, here, from a member to a member, always in the position of point 1) - a ban on the protection of a mark that is contrary to public order or to accepted moral principles is prescribed. This provision has been fully taken over from the applicable Marks Act. So, from member to member, we have added that this provision has been fully taken over from the applicable Marks Act. Also, this provision has been fully adopted by the applicable Marks Act and is in accordance with Article 3. EU Directives and Article 7(1) of the EU trade mark Regulation. It's just, as we say, this is just one termological alignment of these laws, there are a few changes, and we of the SNS can't set ourselves up differently under this law but simply not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30326	The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30327	Thank you. Today, it seems to me that Mr. Novakovic is destined to be chaired and to talk about laws that are not even after about five or six years (such as: The bankruptcy law is obviously not going to bring any fundamental change to what has been so far. Why should this set of laws that are under congregation discussion today be of some importance? First of all, if we bear in mind that the creations of the human spirit and the particularly protected formations of the human spirit today are practically the most expensive goods, only creation and intellectual property rights are the most profitable area, so that in those more developed and legally and socially regulated countries, the daily attention of the strategy in the area of stimulating creativity, its ever-increasing and more efficient legal protection and, of course, intelligent economy is absolutely devoted. Unfortunately, instead of this way of inciting creation, we see more and more on concrete examples that the creators, at the very least, are humiliated and burdened with the costs of inefficient procedures, as more and more regulations are contrary to some international agreements, to tourism standards, as the area requiring long and complex specialisation is increasingly reduced to the level of unauthorized intricacy or, I say, extreme unconsciousness. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, among the many current issues is the legal protection of design. The design, you could already hear it, at least when it comes to Serbia, has had that tradition practically since 1884, when the Law on the Protection of Mustars and Models was passed. The protection of industrial design was provided for in the 1920 Industrial Property Protection Regulation, which must have included any image or drawing that could serve as a reputation and be transferred to any industrial or craftsmanship. The model is defined as any ownership work representing an industrial or craft object or used on an industrial or craft product. Copyright and Legal Design Protection was arranged in 1929 by the Copyright Protection Act. He explicitly predicted, along with the guidance of other creations, the protection of art works of applied art. Copyright and Legal Design Protection in Serbia has so far been governed by the 2004 Act on the Protection of Copyright and Related Rights, which cites works of applied art and industrial design in addition to other works of art. Industrial and legal design protection has been governed by the Law on Legal Protection of Design, also since 2004. It is interesting that the law was also made under the 1998 European Parliament and Council Directive. It leaves Member States to determine the conditions, including the degree of originality under which the subject enjoys protection as an industrial design, as well as copyright and legal protection. This practically means that industrial and legal protection of a single plant does not exclude its copyright and legal protection. As for the personality of industrial design, the directive that was a model still in the current law (and obviously it will not change much in this new one) explicitly states in the opening part that industrial design does not have to have an aesthetic character, it does not have to be a beautiful art. In the case where industrial design, a design registered at the Institute of Intellectual Property, enjoys automatic and copyright protection, a design that characterizes free external form enjoys, according to the Industrial Design Act, also copyright and legal protection. As for the originality criteria, which is extremely important, there remains to be considered the question of what degree of originality should exist in order for one object to enjoy exactly this kind of protection. And the question is, to what extent is the Law on Legal Protection of Design still in force, supposed to be a law on depositing design or registering design? The law did not provide for an examination in the application procedure for copyright design, and in this respect it is clearly about depositing. The law provided for an essential examination of whether the subject of the application is industrial design, although the study does not exist in internationally deposited industrial design, so that domestics are in a more unfavourable position than those of international depositors, which is unacceptable. There are a large number of questions that he asks, instead of solving them, which should ultimately be the basic purpose and purpose of every law, and thus this law on the legal protection of industrial design. Thus, as regards the right to design created in a working relationship, this law edited in one member to apply the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and in the next to apply the Law on patents. This, at the very end of the line, made a mistake, because by applying the Law on Copyright in a number of cases, the work is returned, roughly speaking, to the author after the expiry of the law provided for the number of years, and in the event of the application of the patent law, the work under the same circumstances belongs to the permanent employer. The legislator obviously mistranslated the directive on that occasion, because it is a misrepresentation of the termology in relation to the name of the piece, or it is referred to one by another as "the content of the rights" and "the scope of the rights", which practically have the same meaning, so it is about tautology. The scope of rights, scope of protection, violation of rights to design, injuries to design, etc. They show that there were obviously no adequate, or real solutions in this area. If all of this is added to an incomplete court jurisdiction in a number of proceedings, all this indicates that the legislator had virtually no obligation under the general acts of the Council of Europe on the inauguration of the two-way procedure. All this and the fact that the Institute of Intellectual Property is obviously not according to heritage funds, nor to the necessary structure of an informed user, nor to the consumer, which the law states as a person assessing the material conditions for the protection of the external appearance of industrial design, indicates that it was really necessary to make fundamental changes and additions to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design and to organise a completely different procedure before the Institute of Intellectual Property. As the SRS Parliamentary Group, we have tabled amendments to try to correct this bill. What needs to be pointed out this time is that the problem of stealing intellectual property affects all industrial branches, from music, film, to pharmaceutical or automotive. In the world, of course, there are a large number of companies and individuals who rely exclusively on intellectual property revenues, as some way of returning previous investments, and then investing in research and development, in order to succeed in some reasonable time to produce even more productive tools. The most important thing in all of this, and the condition of successful protection of intellectual property, is successful supervision of its own identity, i.e. market technology. Control is a key factor and is created for years and absolutely implies and monitoring the situation on the market and the media. The protection of intellectual property further encourages people to continue creation, because through copyright, patents, intellectual property rights all creators have the right to decide how their creations are exploited, multiplied, distributed, etc. It also allows the rightholder to obtain a certain additional profit, as it can be sold, licensed or replaced. Therefore, companies, therefore, and also in the state, need to create a modern principle that requires the protection of rights, the effective management of rights, raising awareness, preventing the violation of these rights. In all of this, as some kind of guide, you should serve the saying of Victor Hugo that what leads and drags the world is not locomotives, but ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as well as a dozen others, will certainly not allow this bill, and this senseless government and the fastest locomotive cannot move towards a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30328	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. The word is Mr. Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30329	Thank you very much, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, citizens of Serbia, today, in the framework of a joint principled search, we are having a joint debate on four draft laws, which are: the draft laws on stamps, the proposal for a law on the protection of topography of integrated cars, the bill on the legal protection of industrial design and the proposal for a law on copyright and related rights. It is obvious that all four draft laws treat similar issues in a certain way, which is the legal protection of the copyright of an individual as a natural person, i.e. the protection of a legal person, as well as the circumstances under which this legal protection can be restricted and delayed. We are witnessing that today has become a sensitive problem, where there is a continuing violation of the fundamental rights and standards of conduct in this area, and we ourselves see that the situation in this matter is very chaotic and insufficiently regulated. In close connection with this issue, there is another bill, which was discussed a few days ago by the Assembly within the framework of a set of judicial laws, which is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Organisation and jurisdiction of state bodies to combat high-tech crime. This bill, as we remember, suggested the formation of a higher public prosecutor's office based in Belgrade, which would be responsible for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia in terms of high-tech crime. In that regard, it is proposed to establish a special department which would deal with criminal acts against intellectual property, business and legal traffic in the event that the subject or the agent in carrying out the illicit operation was a computer or computer system, network or some computer data, and also their products in a material or electronic form, provided that the damage to the author is greater than a million dinars. We have seen from the presentation of our authorised representative, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, the views of our parliamentary group on the issues treated by these laws. On this occasion, I will focus a little more on one of these four draft laws, which is the proposal for a law on protecting topography of integrated cars, while colleagues from my parliamentary group will treat the remaining three laws. In order to start any analysis of this law on the protection of topography of integrated cars, we need to look at the genealogy of the problem involved. The first Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars was brought to us about ten years ago, more specifically in 1998, and it was published in "The Official Messenger of the SRJ", No. 42/98, and has been slightly modified six years later and published in "The Official Messenger of Serbia-Montenegro" in 2004. Given that it is the law of the former state union, the government has found it appropriate to pass a new law that would be termologically and substantively in line with both the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry Act, as well as with international standards in this area. The fact that the former SFRY signed a convention with the World Intellectual Property Organisation in 1989 also stressed its readiness to protect copyrights in its territory. As we know, besides material, and immaterial good are the result of intellectual work, so they must be subject to proper legal protection. Thus came the well-known TRIPS agreements, issued by the World Trade Organisation, as well as the EC agreements, i.e. instructions from the EU Council of Ministers, which included topography of integrated cars. However, the fact is that at this point we are not a member of the World Trade Organisation or of the European Union, although the representatives of the Government are constantly pointing out that there are clear definitions that we should be admitted to one and another association. That's probably why it's such a rush to find as many as 58 points of the agenda on the agenda, most of which we can see is that most of these so-called proposals. European laws. It's just, I'm afraid things aren't happening in the spirit of that folk saying, "We're making rye, and the rabbit is still in the woods," because unfortunately, as it stands, we're getting further away from both the EU and the World Trade Organisation. You see, according to this, I'm particularly concerned about one other thing, that's the last sentence that the legislator (or government) has given in the light of this law. Here I will quote: “The domestic industry that could apply topography of integrated cars into large scales and integration of technology has been shut down with the inability to apply that technology. “ With all the respect of Mr. Chiplic and those present here, I am very sorry that Bozidar Djelic is not present here, because as Minister of Science and Technology, Mr. Boza would probably know that he is giving an answer to the simplest question – who are we then preparing for and for whom do we adopt these laws when the domestic industry, unfortunately, does not produce this type of product? As things stand, I fear that something worse will happen in the state of Serbia, that soon we will not run out of any production, because unfortunately, we have witnessed that from day to day the number of shut down and liquidated enterprises is increasing, with no chance of fixing it better. That's the only way we're creating a bigger and bigger army of unemployed people. It is obvious that in the state of Serbia, it is much more modern and lucrative to deal with consulting business and things like that than with production. It would have been better if we had discussed here some law on reviving production, not on protecting what does not exist at all, and what the state of Serbia is currently not dealing with. Regardless of the fact, this bill of law has two good things. The first is that no additional funding is provided for the implementation of the law in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which would be taken out of taxpayers' pockets, and the other thing is, which is, it must be recognised, true rarity – the adoption of this law does not follow the establishment of a new agency or institution. To be honest, we hardly remember when a law was passed in this congregation and no appropriate agency was envisaged for its realization, in which, as we know, party personnel who simply need to be home. I wouldn't talk about the details of this bill right now, because this is a debate in principle, and when there's a debate in particular, we'll talk about it in more detail. My distinguished colleagues Nikola Savic and Milan Nikolic and I have submitted a total of eight concrete amendments to this bill and we will, in the context of discussions in particular, try to defend these amendments and justify them. We hope that by adopting these amendments, these laws would become one rounded content and logical continent, which could be applied in practice. So I'm going to do a little bit more here by analysing the effects that the bill could have on its potential users. First of all, the integrated circuit, the ones dealing with this matter, represents a complex electrical circuit composed of a number of active and passive components located on a unique base that can be applied either on its own or within some more complex electronic devices and devices. In the general case, only the wheel consists of three separate continents: the housing, which is most often of ceramics or special plastic mass; then, performs, which are also connected to the bearing structure, and the chip located in the centre of the integrated car and which is connected with the mentioned strings. We can say that, from the point of view of purpose, the usual division of industrial cars into three main groups: analogous, most commonly found in operating enhancers, digital circuits, which of course go to microprocessors and mixed integrated circuits that process both analogue and digital signals and are applied to AD and DA converters, which means that all of these are high-tech products that can be applied to various microprocessors, memory, enhancers, pulse coders and decoders, modems, etc. As far as commercial use is concerned, it is highly developed and widespread. The standard integral circuits are applied to a temperature range of zero to 70 degrees Celsius; industrial for a temperature range of minus 40 to 85, and the special ones, such as for military needs, have the widest scope of application, from minus 55 to 125 degrees Celsius, which means that they also have the highest working capacity. Otherwise, as the year of birth of an integral car is considered in 1964, since for the first time, a silicon plate of 6h6 mm was installed in the third generation computers. It enabled a large integration and creation of complex and compact structures, primarily computers, which thus became more reliable, faster and cheaper on the world market. In the 1970s, there was an increase in the integration of integrated circuits, resulting in large scales and integration of technology, where up to 5,000 components were packed in an integrated circuit, only a little later even more advanced very large scales and technologies, which further increased integration and reduced the price and weight of integrated cars. As an example of how much this has had a practical effect, I'll only list the cost of the computer. For example, when the first computers appeared in 1950, after World War II, they had a fantastic price of about a million dollars, and every ten years the price fell ten times, so in 1960 the best computer was about $100,000, and in the '70s it fell to tens of thousands of dollars, eighty to 1,000 dollars, so that in the 1990s and later it fell to about $100. From this we see that all this progress has made it possible to topography of integrated cars, which has been constantly developing and perfecting. As for trends in the near future, it is believed that these topography will develop even more and that there will be a so-called phenomenon. supercomputers that will include all knowledge from specific areas. I did not give this historical depiction with the goal of considering only the chronology of development in this area, but of seeing what abuse and lack of adequate law could lead to. I'll only list some examples of years when laws against abuse of this problem were first passed in the world. The first law was passed in the United States in 1984, and then in Japan in 1985, the Netherlands in 1987. etc., and of the countries in our nearest environment it was Romania in 1995. It is certain that we, on the basis of a parallel right, can also use all the positive solutions of the countries mentioned and install it in the proposals of these laws that we are discussing. But the difference is, I'm going to repeat in the conclusion that all these countries have high-tech production, they have something to protect by law, and we unfortunately don't. Nevertheless, I propose to a group of the ruling assembly majority that when our amendments are exposed, they listen carefully to all those they consider to be beneficial, making this set of laws more comprehensive and more applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30330	Meanwhile, the power has arrived to represent the LDP parliamentary group, as an authorised representative, Mr Nenad Prokic. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30331	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the area of copyright is in itself a very complex matter that is difficult to regulate legally, but I have the impression that the authors of this bill have exaggerated a little bit, that all of this has been so complicated that, in my opinion, St. Peter would not divulge, let alone apply it in practice. There are simply a number of solutions in this bill which, in my opinion, cannot be applied even in some fully regulated states, let alone in the Republic of Serbia. Some parts of this bill remind me little of certain communist programmes – they contain many good wishes and solutions, but when it comes to applying in practice we come to the situation that it is impossible to realise. I believe that this bill, or law when adopted, could only be implemented in case the state employs, say, a few tens of thousands of people who would literally be on duty for 24 hours at all public places, in restaurants, cafes, similar facilities, in means of public traffic, in all the shops where there are photocopiers. Today, a daily newspaper published a text on the fact that 150 cafes and restaurants in Valjevo have been not playing music for two years, so they don't broadcast a radio program, and they don't entertain their guests by television, in protest over the amount of compensation they have to pay on the basis of the use of copyright. One of them claims that he has to pay 60 euros a month and states that the owner of a restaurant in the same area in Germany pays six euros a month on this basis. As far as I understand this bill, if it is adopted, those duties, which are now insufferable according to these people's statements, will be even greater. I'm going to comment on a few concrete solutions. Article 18 provides that the author has the right to oppose the use of his authorial work in a way that threatens his honor or reputation, but does not foresee that the author has the right to oppose the use of his works in a way that harms him materially. I submitted the amendment, I thought it was a failure, but the amendment was not accepted. I simply believe that without the adoption of that amendment, the law does not make any sense. So you're protecting the author, but you're not protecting him from the most common abuse, abuses that cause him material damage. The second solution that I consider to be a controversial solution is Article 22, which provides that the author cannot waive the right to compensation for temporary concession or lease his copyright. I don't think anyone can stop the author from giving up the fees for using his work. I ask the question is it normal, I published three books, do I, as an author, have the right to give these books to anyone to use them temporarily, for a certain period of time, or permanent? I think it's my inalienable human right and I don't need that right to be denied by any law. That right can only be denied if I do it in some way that threatens the public interest, endangers someone else's rights. The next solution, Article 39, is that it contains a number of radical solutions, and I'm going to comment on two. First, I quote – in case of multiplication of copyright works by photocopying or by other means, the author, in addition to the copyright fee, has the right to additional compensation from the legal or natural person who made the photocopying. This solution is completely inapplicable in practice and completely pointless. I'm asking, if we assume that a young man, say, from Stajkovec or Leskovec, writes a fine love song that is nice to teenagers and some teenagers from the Great Plan take that song in a bookshop in the Great Plan and photocopy in 5,000 copies, how will the author of the song know that this song is photocopied? How is this guy who copys a song and shares it for free to know that he has a certain legal obligation based on this photocopying? Who will, after all, oversee all the photocopiers in Serbia? That's impossible. I'll tell you more about it later. The same member of this bill says this – the owners of the photocopier are obliged to provide information on the number of photocopies made at the request. This is even worse. I apologize for the expression, but I really think this is a completely insane solution! This is why: a customer comes to a bookstore with 500 papers, on each paper is printed out one sentence by different authors. According to this law, the owner of the bookstore, the owner of the photocopier, should record what the sayings are photocopied, the names of their authors. He's supposed to close the store in the next two or three hours, record it all, while the other customers are waiting, or hire a new employee to write this down. You can smile all you want, but this comes from what's written. These are life situations, according to my colleague Dušanka Plecevic, and it would really be necessary for all the owners of the photocopier to hire another assistant worker in order for this law to be respected. Article 45. You go to another extreme – you allow libraries, educational institutions and archives to multiply copyright works without the author's knowledge and permission and without paying the copyright unless they do it for commercial purposes. Now a young writer appears, writes a good book, the book becomes a hit on the market, and a private educational institution – you know that they are not formed for general interest, for the spread of culture and education, but for profit – takes and for the sake of their own advertising, prints, say 20,000 copies and the book and divides it for free to young generations. They will do a service to culture, spread love to the book, but they will do this author one irreparable material damage. You, a member of the 18th Law, which I was talking about at the beginning, did not allow the author to oppose the exploitation of his work in a way that caused him material damage. In short, I will comment on Article 32. Under Article 32, only the author has the right to allow his public broadcasting work to be announced in a public place. Translated into folk language, the owner of the pub, say, on the Old Mountain has the right to listen to whatever song the singer wants on his transistor. However, if he decides that Tanja Savic or Miroslav Ilic, who at that time can hear the other guests at the bar, he cannot do it without their permission. Now there's a few problems. First, he would have to be psychic so he knew in advance which songs would be broadcast. Another thing, he would have to possess some present civilization unknown scientific knowledge, technological knowledge, to provide the author's consent in the next few seconds, which is impossible. There are two other situations so he can respect this member of the law. It's to get a list of all the songs and authors of all the songs that will be broadcast in advance, for example, for the next year. It's technically inconclusive. He's not supposed to do anything else, he's supposed to do it. There is another way, and this is that with all the authors, all the singers whose songs are broadcast in Serbia's territory are being consulted in advance, ensuring their consent, they will probably seek some material compensation, to pay them, but, you know, it could not pay even Miroslav Miskovic, let alone the owner of some ordinary bar. I simply think there are some solutions that should be withdrawn from this bill. I think they should be withdrawn or accepted by the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30332	The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under the circumstances this bill is represented by Mr Ciplic, the minister run by the Democratic Party for office. One of the draft laws that we are discussing today is the proposal for a law on copyright and related rights. Look at the wonders, one of the people who promoted copyright violations in the Republic of Serbia is also one university professor at Law School, unfortunately Professor Stevan Lilic. Mr. Chiplic must know what this is about. Mr. Ciplic certainly heard, as others have heard about the theory of law, about the famous legal theorist Prof. Dr. Lazu M. Kostic, former Belgrade University professor who taught Administrative Law before World War II. Laza M. Kostic was an exceptional theorist, spoke several world languages and wrote an anthological textbook "Administrative Law of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia" in three volumes. Of course, after World War II due to the ideological definition of professor. Kostic's works were mostly extremized from university libraries. But some professors came across after World War II, so instead of writing their textbooks, they wrote textbooks in which they literally, without quoting, wrote several dozen pages of the textbooks, She's lying to M. Kostic. One of the authors who pointed out this ('out') was Nikola Stjepanović, who published several textbooks in the field of administrative, i.e. administrative law after World War II. To a large extent, his textbooks were the plagiarism of “Administrative Law” Prof. Lase Kostic. Nikola Stjepanović died in 1978, and then Stevan Lilić, imagine, in 1991, 13 years after the death of Professor Stjepanović, with the late professor, published a co-author work textbook from the Administrative Law. A few years later, he completely deleted Nikola Stjepanovic from the title of the textbook and then it turned out that Mr. Stevan Lilic wrote the work on his own. Dr. Vojislav Seselj determined more than ten years ago by a scientific method that Professor Stevan Lilić in fact forged most of his texts, i.e. his management law textbook by literally prescribing, without the appropriate signs of the quote, a good part of the pages of Professor Laza M. Kostic's book. Otherwise, it is interesting that Mr. Stevan Lilic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, became a member of the Democratic Party's General Committee in June 2008. The same gentleman, Stevan Lilic, in October of last year, at the time of preparing the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina, gave the following statement: "The Constitution of Serbia sees inconsistencies when it comes to Vojvodina, because Kosovo and Metohija are mentioned in the essential economy and not for the northern province. My personal opinion is that Vojvodina should have its laws and its province's supreme court. The opposite, a hard stance has already led to Kosovo being amputated by Serbia, and we all want Vojvodina to remain in Serbia's composition. “ This same Stevan Liliæ supported Marty Ahtisaari's plan in early 2007. Professor Stevan Lilic, president of the "Laws for Democracy" association, points out that it is quite certain that Ahtisaari's proposal gives Kosovo elements of statehood, noting that such elements now have Vojvodina or any federal state in the world that has its own flag, government and parliament. Listen to the genius explanation: "The elements of statehood do not mean that it is a state," Lilic says. Also, contrary to Vucetic (this is the former President of the Constitutional Court), he believes the plan does not violate international law because the whole process was conducted with the presence of Serbia. The same professor, Stevan Lilic, participated as a court expert in the famous "Satellite" affair, which costs us about 37,000,000 euros. So Serbia must pay 37,000,000 euros in compensation to the Israeli firm "Image Set" because of a failure to respect a contract to rent a spy satellite, which was signed in 2005, by former Defence Minister Prvoslav Davinic. It was ruled by an international arbitration court in London. The court decided that Serbia should pay the fine because it failed to fulfil the obligations under the contract, which Davinic signed on his own. According to information reached by the Serbian Radical Party, the state lost the dispute due to the testimony of Professor of the Law Faculty Stevan Lilic, who sided with the Israelis in the dispute. Namely, Prvoslav Davinic is without the knowledge of the Council of Ministers of then-Serbia... (President: I'm sorry, Mr. Martinovic, I listen very carefully to the genealogy of Prof. Lily, but I can't link her to the joint principled search we're discussing today, so I'm asking you to get back on the subject and connect her, at least in some future period. Thank you in advance. ) Mr. Novakovic, as an experienced lawyer, you certainly know that this and how it has to do with copyright, because when someone fakes someone else's textbook and shows it as their own it definitely constitutes a violation of both domestic and international standards when it comes to copyright. I'm only telling you this so you can see that when someone falls morally, there's no limit there. If someone's willing to steal someone else's scientific work, there's no limit for them to stop at. Two more sentences, if you'll excuse me. Davinic said he had not heard of a decision by international arbitration on which the state's taxpayers' money should pay 37,000,000 euros to the Israeli company. To make this decision by the arbitration court in London against Serbia was the key testimony of Mr. Stevan Lilic. Lilic, however, confirmed that the contract signed by Davinic was in line with Serbia's legislation, which was also supported by the fact that Davinic was not convicted in Serbia, although he is still under investigation. He thus supported Israel’s suit. Sam Liliæ would neither confirm nor deny this information. When journalists asked him in time whether it was true that he was an expert in this case and that he testified in behalf of Israel, he claimed that there was absolutely no comment on the subject. Mr. Novakovic, I thank you for allowing me to show how domestic and international standards are violated when it comes to copyright. Otherwise, since these are, unfortunately, current topics in Serbia, these are people who prescribe other people's textbooks, who produce the Vojvodina statute today are the main promoters of the so-called Kosovo independence. Thank you, Mr. Novakovic, for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30334	The word is from Ambassador Branimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I will now say something about the draft law on copyright and related rights and I will try to plastically explain how it works here in Serbia. I want to believe that there was a good intention to bring order to this law in some way and to prevent all this happening in this space, however, you forgot some of the things that matter, to install certain elements in these laws that would prevent further crime, thieving and everything that goes on in this music industry. This has been going on for years. We had a debate ten days ago here, there were people from the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property and representatives of music associations; there were some things we brought out and you could see that a lot of people had objections to certain members of this law. I don't know if you'll accept it, whether you want to accept it, whether you think we're right or wrong, so now I'm going to support the exposure that I had at the time, since you know how it works, we're constantly calling on European institutions, how it works with them, the music industry, so we're repatriating certain laws to comply with them. There's only one thing I have to say -- the biggest black-flow organizations are in football (FIFA) and the music industry, in the world. It doesn't mean that everything that goes well with them; even if we took certain elements from the law, which you tried to install here, doesn't mean that these laws will be implemented that way, because you didn't in the law provide that protection of artists, authors, performers from certain clans, people who have a monopoly here on the market and who run the whole copyright story here. I've come up with some data here that OFFS, the organization you've given permission to run this job, has been working for many years, that there are only five people in that organization on the board of directors and six others, they're supposed to be a congregation; they've set out the rules on how that money is being collected, they've determined the rules on how that money is being distributed. You have also received information about all this; in 2007, some people, who were even on the executive and board of directors of this institution... What they've exposed is really amazing, how much money is being poured out and how the distribution is done. You sent, as the Bureau, a commission that went to look at how it was done; you gave certain instructions in writing, warned how to do it. If that is not the case, you will apply a certain member of the law under which, of course, the license would be withdrawn. It would have been all right if it hadn't gone beyond that and now that same organisation doesn't appear as the main subject in this Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Now I have to tell you plastic how it works. I've been in discography my whole life, and I can tell you how it used to be, and how it is today. Today, a young performer who wants to record something has to pay for a particular record. First, there are three or four record houses in this country. Other discographic houses, of which you have received, as representative associations of performers, seals and checkers, do not place two phonograms on the market for two years. They're a cover for a particular lobby, a big one, held through Grand Production, City Records, and, I know, two or three other houses, and they cover these houses for one big money laundering. How's that money being laundered? So, first of all, the RRA didn't do the job that exists, and they're getting big salaries. RRA is, firstly, in charge of radio stations and television, unless they deliver a certain list or a shirt performed... It's not accidentally invented, it's everywhere in the world, so that you can register what a certain radio-television broadcasts over 24 hours, especially a radio station where 98% of the music is. Of course, consciously or unconsciously, no one is today... Neither does SOKOJ's answer, nor does the phonogram associations. Why? Because they come into a situation that the law has allowed them to charge on a flat-rate basis. How do you think you can split the money that's flat-out from the emitter? Not at all. Who knows what's being broadcast on the air over this Serbia? Now the second story, one 10% radio TV is being paid in these shirts; the rest are paying in a flat-rate payment, as a bargain, a clean shop, as in the market. Now there are phonograms, shields, my God, now they have their share of the cake here. And there goes the hack in Serbia, in restaurants, cafes, hair salons, shops, buses; they come in with their IDs, who the police say -- you'll pay 20,000, you 10,000, you 30,000, you'll be five. The one who doesn't pay goes to court, the court immediately punishes him and suspends his money. That money pours the same, with a flat-rate charge again, on a different basis. If I weren't to make it legal for you right now, you know it. I'm glad you, Mr. Chiplet, are here; as a judge, you'll understand this matter rather than Mr. Djelic. This is where another mechanism was found, of course, all within the framework of allegedly legal provisions, so we are referring to certain things that we have come to and said this way ourselves – we are now going to take that money, and as a principle of how to split the money, we have taken how they do it in Europe, in the world, by the "market Sher" system. However, the principle of the distribution of money, which is unknown, has been resolved in a democratic and fair way. It takes care of the quality of the work, the sustainability of those works and all possible entities that make this work live for 20, 30 and 50 years, because it is the basis by which this manufacturer will receive some money or part of the cake, not quantity, where it can be stamped every day. Then you get into a situation to say – the rapper will be how many phonograms have been placed on the market this year. One company threw out, I don't know, a table. It doesn't matter what it's just for single use. It'll be a rapper to make all the money, 90% oatmeal... We're saying this guy just threw out a hundred phonograms, and the PGP threw out 20. So he's got 20 million, and PGP's got five million. I only took the PGP symbolically. And it's not symbolic, and I'll tell you why. So one year, another year, the record companies that take that money are obliged to make payments to the contractors, to pass. What happens next? How can he pass it on when he has no idea who's been broadcast in half a year? They go in by the shops, by the cafes, make the pooper, take the money for a year ahead or backwards. Well, please, that man in the hair salon has a CD player, bought some CD player, got from abroad; broadcasts and likes to listen to Beethoven and Mozart, doesn't matter, foreign rock group. He's also taxing him. If he's listening to his homework, he's taxing the same thing. A group of people, assisted and with all the permission given by the Institute, who's been looking at it peacefully, have been getting rich for years. None of the performers get the money; the author has a different story. It sends a little bit here and there to some performers to get dirty, you know, to those who make a little noise, go to the paper, and so swims away. Now, in this situation, last year... You see, an interesting thing is how organizations work. There's a PGP in that organization. PGP is part of RTS, which is absurd. The PGP has 90% of its music production – a symphony orchestra, a jazz orchestra, a folk orchestra, a colliber choir, not to mention, and 90% of the PGP records for our house. It's our production. Then a phonogram organization appeared, came as a mediator and said – RTS TV to pay them, and they would return to PGP, with a commission. That money has nothing to do with them anymore. In the end, RTS, as television, I don't want to defend television, or defend anyone here or not, but RTS won't pay eight or nine million to SOKOJ, because it thinks the tariffs that SOKOJ cuts are huge. It happened because no one in this state came to put their paws on and said, "Come here, let's see what you're doing." You gave them permission. You've given them a big money-turn from this nation, and no one's controlling them. You even got applications, complete with the records, with the numbers that were delivered to you at the IPR. You were with our committee, you gave certain guidance and nothing to anyone. What should we do as artists? What do the authors do anyway? How can they fight for their rights when you as a state make it all possible? In your solutions that you put here, at any cost, now, that's one lobby that does it. I don't know if you're doing it on purpose, or if you don't know, but if you don't know, none of us know these things, at least ask and see what's going on. You're putting them on the job as normal as possible under the new law, that they're obliged to bring this commission's common tariff system into line. It's all right, I agree, there must be control. And no one. After one member, even requests must be written off. You haven't even settled in the music law that was recorded until 1998 as that money is being collected, as it's being deployed. Wait, it's not just music -- it's recording today and it's being broadcast tomorrow, it's going on for three months or a month, which is being broadcast by certain record houses. Music has been broadcast for hundreds of years, 200 years. There are authors, performers, not to say five years, ten years, back twenty years. You didn't solve it here. You're going to make a big deal out of yourself, who's going to solve it? The courts won't be able to solve it either because they didn't see it coming. Those who were your consultants, I don't want to be malice that they were doing it on purpose, they probably skipped it, they didn't know, they didn't remember. But the scarier it is, you don't accept our suggestions, you don't accept our good intentions. Last time I told you, I'm just one of the thousands of artists, authors who, for at least ten years, took the house. Someone. Who? I don't know. They took someone's two houses, someone half the house. Those who took, you see, have yachts, planes, trucks, all that, and artists will work and create. This law must primarily be the protection of copyright and related rights, but as you have solved it here, by certain members, I think there will be major problems here. If only one agency, I call it the agency, or the organisation, in 2007 raises 2m euros, so the SOKOJ collects fourm euros, it is sixm euros. If the third organisation raises another 2m euros, it is eightm euros. Let's not say what doesn't add up. This is where tenm euros are turned annually. Do you think that's a little money for this little Serbia and this little space? It may be small for someone, but it's huge money. Where does that money end? How does that money end? The DA and the police need to deal with this problem. I would love and wish with all my heart that you made sure that through this law, through certain members of the law to prevent that from happening again. But you didn't do it. We will still, unfortunately, tell our story; the ruling majority is gone, here is an empty hall, as is every day. They don't care what the law says, whether it's copyright and related rights, or whatever other law, information. They will come that day, vote, and the law will pass. We'll go back to one story and say, "What now?" Nothing to anyone. Those who have been damaged, who have been stolen, have no one to complain to again. There's nothing. I think you should take a look at a few of our suggestions that we've suggested here for the best of all, to see how you'll solve that commission as well. Now watch one thing - there is a representative association. Excuse me, please, what's a representative association doing here? Did you know that 200 music associations are registered in Serbia? Which is representative, who determines? It determines one group of people from the Ministry of Culture, two people. By what criteria? You don't know that either. Now the law will determine it again. Do you know how it's determined? Who's more likable to them. One association has music lovers, amateur people, who have nothing to do with the discography. You get a list there of 200, 300, 500 people, this bunch of thousands of people, and you get a representative association with 5,000 people. Do you know which association is professional? The one that proves that his members, as a legal chamber, a doctor's office, are professionally involved in this business, are the people who do this work. Who's representing me on this list, me or a thousand people? People you've never heard of. They have nothing to do with us. They entered this story to make money at the expense of all these artists, authors and performers. You made it possible and no one is doing anything about it, that's how it stands. Of course, now that the Union of Employers is asking for their representative to enter, which would be logical, in that commission, wait, let's stop to see who's making the tariff, how he makes the tariff, you push now to make a tariff at any cost, both interpreters and phonograms. Excuse me, please, why do they have to? You should put everyone, and SOKOJ, there, to be one roof organization that's going to pick one, I'm not going to say a hard word, a hack in Serbia. All those rights that belong to certain organisations, authors, all of them, to collect one, per one tariff, which the commission will determine. First they're far less cost; second thing, not everyone can set a tariff for themselves any way they want on the market; third, that money... So the three organizations agree, again with the commission that the government organises, and says – SOKOJ takes 40% for authors, performers 30%, phonograms 30%. They're automatically controlling each other. You can't do these manipulations and thefts and counterfeits. You can't do that. That's what you predicted. That's what you suggested. You are again pushing your own phonogram and interpreter separately, especially "Sokojo". There is another thing you have not predicted, which had to be after all these affairs and money that none of the authors and performers have received before these years, except a very small number of them, just to mask all this happening on this field in Serbia. You had to predict, if you already want a new law, that all these organisations that are already registered – there may be new organisations, there may be better organisations, which appear under conditions that go along with the new law as a new subject to which you will give permission – should be reregistered, exactly, especially what certain organisations did what they did. Give opportunity to others, say – it's over, what's done is done. Let the police and the judiciary do their job. Who's gonna pay us all that money for all those years? It's a different story, but at least say it – now everybody's going from the beginning. She sits down, so she opens four eyes, under which conditions you give permission to certain people, if all of this is right, by law, valid or does it the wrong way, so let her do it the way they do it. I don't know what to say. I'd have a lot to say, this is a very broad matter and topic, but I think if you don't put those three organizations under one roof, if you don't get people to lead, if you don't get into the business of these agencies, the distributors, the crime will move on. Because the author and performer has the right to enter into an individual and collective contract to protect him. You're pushing him into something here, you're prescribing and you're saying -- that's how it has to be, and that's where the story ends. You know very well, for a public announcement broadcast through certain public facilities that the total sum of money is over 51 - 52%. That's the money that gets picked up like this, he comes, he says, you'll have 20,000, 30,000. It's 51 - 52% in that mass collected by phonograms. Everything about 48% goes from the emitter. Of these emitters, why aren't you from the RRA... It suits them, and the SOKOJ and the phonograms, so it doesn't work. Why aren't you from the RRA, as the RRA would shut down any radio station and television that would go deaf against certain politicians, to certain authorities, would shut them down immediately, because they have to meet some standards... (Chairman: Mr. Djokic, finish up, please.) I'm sorry. And as for copyright and related rights, it doesn't matter, it doesn't have to pay. He doesn't have to run shirts, he doesn't have to do anything. The same RRA can legally warn him immediately unless he fulfils his obligations to the state he prescribes, to shut him down as a radio station. No, it's going to be a free seat, it's going to be extra money, and that's where what I'm saying goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30336	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I see you're leaving and I'd like to suggest you pass on a few things to Mr. Djelic's Minister of General Practice that I would like to say regarding the draft law on copyright and related rights. What exactly is this about? Certain provisions of this law are totally anachronous, not in accordance with the Constitution, and especially with those provisions of the Constitution concerning the protection of certain human rights and, above all, individual rights. I would particularly like to apostrophe the provision of article 127. He's absolutely anachron. I see that some MPs here obviously called on some of the old times, although Cominterne is gone, Tito has died, but some still desire social property and socialist alliances. What exactly is this about? The provision of Article 127 provides that the manufacturer of the issued phonogram shall be entitled to a fee for the transmission and re-emission of phonograms and a public statement of phonograms to be broadcast. What is particularly important is the payment of a single fee by an organization. You're, like, driving people into collectiveity, like a colhoz, like a soowoz. It's gone. This violates the individual rights of the interpreter, i.e. the performer. So that I don't turn out to be talking from some of my personal motives or convictions, I want to point out something else to you. There is IFPI, it is the International Federation of the phonogram Industry; it has given its opinion on this Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Their first remark refers to exactly what they have marked as collective management of performance rights, which must not be mandatory. I will tell you who IFPI is – it represents the music industry around the world, in more than 72 countries, among other things in Europe, and membership in this Federation includes the most significant multinational production companies in the world. Let me tell you something else, when Bulgaria applied to join the European Union in 2002, the IFPI reacted, precisely because copyright and related rights were violated in Bulgaria. Bulgaria has been forced to amend its laws in this segment. No one has the right to force a performer or interpreter to be protected through a collective organisation, through what is called a "one organisation" in the law. So, as an interpreter or performer, he has the right to address the phonogram manufacturer, to conclude with him a contract and to protect his rights, not to force him into some kind of colchose in the 21st century. It's a violation of the Constitution, it's a violation of international standards, it's a violation of something on which, as an individual freedom performer, the interpreter insists exactly the EU. I repeat again, I wanted to appeal to Minister Chiplic because he is concerned with the protection of these rights. I said, not maliciously, but well-intentionedly, that it suggests to Mr Djelic, who has indeed become the minister of general practice, from dealing with finance, through science, technology, European integration and Kosovo, so he can't because of the wide spectrum to deal with something that is fundamental in the proposed law on copyright and related rights. I urge this to change and be in the spirit of European standards and in the spirit of our Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30338	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word has an authorised representative of the political party LDP, Mr Nenad Prokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30339	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues, for my entire life, I have been struggling with copyrights, my own copyrights in the country and abroad. If it's any consolation, it's no better in the world. My experience with the world is catastrophic; it's the same as in the country. It seems that these laws begin with the author, and this law begins with the author, and it turns out that the author is the least protected from everyone. Probably everybody here talks a lot more about everything else than the authors. Unspeakable is the ingenuity of how to play copyright in the world and here. If we're going to be honest with each other, the author should be at the end of the law, since, basically, that's the situation. His chance to exercise his rights is the smallest, and the chances of him manipulating someone else are also the least. So, in a chaos that in the domain of copyright rules with us, as well as in the world, there should certainly be some order in which this law is welcome. I just hope it's not gonna be one of those laws that's passed, and they're not used, they're not applied, they're played in various ways, they're indescribable again. The situation is generally bad, and we will submit several amendments to make the current situation so-so better, having a reasonable degree of restlessness, because we cannot solve such an unsettled area with one law at a time. Our concern is both concrete and related to Article 127, where a mandatory system of common, collective administrations is proposed for tanti than performance. We are also concerned about the limitations of the manufacturer's ability to act independently. The collective agreement between producers and interpreters will go to the detriment of the interpreters, because they themselves did not organise in a great way. It's their personal incompetence, but until they... They simply don't have some parameters in relation to which they could accomplish all of that. I don't think it's the best solution for a single fee to be charged by an organization designated by a contract concluded between an interpreter's organisation and a phonogram producer's organisation. We will propose: “The organisation of phonogram producers and interpreter organisations is obliged to record all contracts concluded until the entry into force of this law between producers of phonograms and interpreters, which are subject to the right to compensation on the basis of the broadcasting of phonograms, public statement of phonograms and the public announcement of phonograms to be broadcast. “ The proposal seems to have been made without sufficient analysis of the very complex relationships that exist in these groups and that the legislator did not have enough information from direct practice and experience from the market on which these groups operate, and therefore there is a discrepancy and contradiction between certain provisions in the proposal. I think the legal framework that allows rightholders to collectively organise is still the most effective way to get the opportunities in which we are somehow in order. I don't think the interpreter organisations used all their potentials to organize themselves, so the collective phonogram producer's organisation is in some advantage, but it doesn't have to stay that way, which depends largely on the ability of self-organizing interpreters, because they mostly do it by system – money in advance. This brings them into a market exclusion situation, but also at risk of exclusion from potential success, so that they put themselves in one position that is automatically in a negative position. Of course, why, then, would those who go to that risk subsequently share the potential profit of success? Now, that's one of our concerns, we hope that these two amendments that we're going to make will sort of improve the situation if they're adopted. I believe that this law is one step and so should be criticised; it is not a final solution, it is one step towards regulating these relationships in society that have long been the subject of crime and of actions that threatened the author first and, of course, all those who have achieved profits through his works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-12-0.u30340	Thank you, Mr. Prokic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a common principled search. This concludes today's work, and the work continues on Monday, November 16th, at 10:00 p.m. Nice weekend. Thank you.
