ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27128	It seems to me that this was the Rules of Procedure by Mrs. Pop-Lazic, but well, I answered the replica of the minister, not you, you are here today, we will only talk to you today, well, all day, somehow it seemed to me that the debate was going well, that it would not happen again with Mr. Sutanovac in the day we were asking parliamentary questions, a few months ago, but it happened last night at six, but I waited all day for Mr. Sutanovac to do so. The point is what the minister said at the time. In fact, it is often done by replacing the thesis, especially in the last days of this campaign against the DSS for all and all things, I repeat that the DS in Serbia's executive power is the most influential, to lead or be the most numerous in four governments, of five governments since 2000, so if someone is most responsible for the situation in Serbia, it is certainly DS. Mr Sutanovac said yesterday that a representative of the cabinets of the then Prime Minister, Mr Kostunica, Mr Stajevic, was involved in drawing up the National Security and Defence Strategy, which is true, but it has nothing to do with any letter written in these proposals that entered the assembly procedure. Even as he worked and took part in the work, none of his remarks were respected, none of his proposals were respected, and when it was over, a year and something, when he stopped at all, and that he was involved, because no one had called him anymore, we were handed over the National Security Strategy without a national consensus on what these are the most important national issues, how Serbia would answer them. Yesterday, the same thing was said here -- we can't wait for a consensus to work. Well, you don't have to wait, but the executive authority has to run it. And now it is seen in the proposals we have received, that the proposal for a national security strategy and a proposal for a national defence strategy is a step towards NATO integration, regardless of what President Tadic says Serbia will not enter the NATO Pact during his term. These papers speak the opposite, and there is not a single word, the termologically is absolutely not using what is a state decision – the'military neutrality of Serbia'. And that's the point. If Mr. Stajevic's opinion had been respected... (President: Time. Thank you. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. That would say it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27129	The damage to the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are still under discussion on the proposal for a decision on the adoption of the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy, and I did not notice that at the opening of the session you said that you had even called the Minister of Defence, and we believe that he was the only one who was authorized to take over and discuss with us today and that the explanations of everything that is necessary in the course of the debate for possible clarification. You will allow the dignity of the National Assembly to protect us all together, and only then can we ask other institutions and the Government, so that it will not humiliate us in this way, both us and the citizens, and send Minister Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade, to discuss with us a set of defence laws, unless it really is the government's decision to sell to the Army, which, too, would not surprise us. Please give me an answer to this question – why didn't you invite the Minister of Sutanovac, and if I didn't hear correctly, then it is really inappropriate for the government to not show up in Parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27131	Mrs. Pop-Lazić, with the material for this session, you received complete information about what was going on and yesterday we all had the oral explanation of Mr. Sutanovac. The assembly knows where he is today, she accepted it yesterday, so at least I figured it out, and there was a question asked by the DSS Parliamentary Group. So he did today take part in the exercise that was planned earlier. We have a representative of the government and no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, no member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken. The word has Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic, also advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which is Article 104(1), which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and in relation to Article 239, which says: "The MP resigns in writing and teaches it to the president of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly resigns immediately to the MPs. ''Now I want to point out the illegal work of the Administrative Committee of this assembly, because at the 48th session of the Administrative Board my resignation was not accepted. I have resigned under the law, and because of this procedure, I demand that the President of the Administrative Committee, Mr Konstantinovic, resign, because he cannot participate... Mr. Konstantinovic participates in a procedure that is impossible to implement, which is the legalisation of something that cannot be legalised. [[Applause]] He and the Administrative Committee want to legalise the theft of the SRS mandate, and because of this procedure, I demand that he resign, because it is something that is moral. And the resignation I submitted to the seat of the MP was made in accordance with the law, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27133	Madam Ambassador, you did not actually have the right to use the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure, because the infringements of the Rules of Procedure refer to what I would do during the session. You obviously wanted to inform the public about your dissatisfaction, but you were instructed on that same committee on how the problem you're talking about can be very well solved. And if you have a real desire to solve it, my suggestion is to act on the suggestion of the Administrative Committee. Mrs. Radeta, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27134	I intervene on the basis of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, obliges you to do the tasks provided for in the Constitution, to chair and, among other things, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall include the application of the Rules of Procedure at meetings of the Assembly Committees. It is completely unwarranted that you have now drawn attention to our dear colleague Lydia Dimitrijevic that she could not intervene. She could, because there is no other place where she can point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure on a committee, and the injury that relates to your obligation to intervene, but it is right here and it is precisely the members that Lydia Dimitrijevic called for. The fact that you want to protect the Administrative Board, Nenad Konstantinovic, that before you voted on the final session points, you also estimated that you could not ask for a roll-out right before the vote, it really raises questions, as did this Rules of Procedure. We can't do business on the street, we have to do it here and we have to do it this way. Indeed, I mean, not that you should seek the resignation of Nenad Konstantinovic, but as president, if you apply this Rules of Procedure, you should initiate a request for his replacement from the chair of the Administrative Board, because he cannot abuse the fact that the assembly majority chose him where he is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27135	Since you have practically spoken of very similar content as Mrs Dimitrijevic, I warn you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure and that there is a sanction provided that I will not do this time, but I also ask all MPs to take care of it. Since, of course, the Rules of Procedure apply to the conduct of these sessions, plenary sessions, and everything that applies to the procedure at such meetings and committees, Mrs Dimitrijevic can express any dissatisfaction at the Committee's session and the Committee can make that statement. For me, the board's position is binding. Therefore, the only thing that is in line with this Rules of Procedure, I ask the MPs not to speak on the same subject on many occasions, because I will be forced to impose sanctions. Mrs Dimitrijevic, please. Please, the warning applies to you. I apologize for the advance, but... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27136	I wanted the right to reply to you, but all I had to say was Mrs. Radeta. You're obliged to take care of the application...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27137	You got the word and you didn't explain that you wanted a replica. You have no right to a replica. No one has offended you. You're completely well understood. Thank you, but I can't give you my word. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27138	Ladies and gentlemen and People's MPs, after these replicas, I will try to get back to the topic of the agenda, it is National Security, it is a Strategy of Defence and to say that I am probably among the majority of those MPs who are not directly involved in defence affairs and who expected in these documents that we have received to recognize some guidelines for the future or for some medium-term period ahead of us. I must start by saying that unfortunately, I am disappointed with what I could read in the document itself, that I am fully aware as most Serbian citizens, as well as the Serbian public...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27139	Gentlemen, I would really like to ask you to allow the MP to be heard. Be quiet, or follow the course of the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27140	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, that the many challenges that all Serbian citizens are aware of, that unfortunately, these challenges have increased, when it comes to security, in years of transition that are behind us and that and globally, the fact is that the global economy creates major social differences within the peoples themselves, even special social groups that are in some way revealed and have one sense of great dissatisfaction, encourages the creation of conditions for security in countries, both in the world and in the region, as one of the most important issues for the countries themselves and for Serbia themselves. I would say that today is more obvious than ever that the war on poverty at global level is necessary and that it must be preceded by this war on terrorism and trying to reduce numerous conflicts around the world, regardless of the fact that global military conflicts are becoming less and less possible, a large number of conflicts at local level, a major problem of weapons of mass destruction, and also excessive exploitation of energy resources, no doubt, will mean an increased degree of uncertainty in some period ahead. We in our region environment have a major problem of terrorism, we have a very large number of historical contradictions that have accumulated in centuries behind us, we have a lot of extremism, but we have a lot of problems when it comes to the transition process, which has completely failed, which has failed to solve the problem of crime, the problem of corruption, I would say is a big problem for our society and the problem of drug abuse. As far as the Serbian Progressive Party is concerned, in some ways, that basic task that you have presented, which is a problem of sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia, is also the biggest problem, the problem of Kosovo is the biggest problem for the SNS, but it mentions a lot of authority, without some concrete solutions, without some concrete vision that the government, as the ruling structure, as people who have accepted the writing of the strategy see the solution to the problem in the future. Obviously, the vague political platform, the party that today makes up the ruling majority, has significantly influenced the fact that this document in many things is insufficiently concrete. I think it is important to mention that for the Serbian Progressive Party it is very important that the Dayton Agreement preserves itself, that the defences, and those provisions that protect all constituent peoples in BiH, that this must be one of the important security risks for Serbia, that we also have a major problem with the return of refugees, displaced, internally displaced persons, and that, when it comes to Serbia itself, the protection of property and life becomes an increasingly serious problem; it is enough to look at daily newspapers, enough to look at, as I said, the level of crime and you will see how much they have increased today, reconciled the security risks in Serbia. Therefore, specifically speaking about this platform, it is in my personal opinion and, I am convinced, in the opinion of almost all Serbian Progressive Party colleagues, quite general, with some vague direction of action and represents a number of findings, I would say in one part and a list of good wishes when it comes to economic policy, where it is listed what the government would like to achieve in some future period, when it comes to foreign investment, when it comes to gross domestic product, economic growth, when it comes to foreign debt, but of all that, we have very little in practice, on the contrary, we have a very bad economic situation, which will greatly affect the security of citizens, Serbia's security in the region. The social policy that was led in the previous period, the period of transition, has been led equally sloppy and these are, in our opinion, very serious security risks, and when it comes to regional inequality, there is a catastrophic situation. We have a current situation for bordered municipalities, municipalities on the Serbian border, to be literally empty. We have terrible migrations, primarily towards Belgrade and Novi Sad as big centres. And I'm sure this strategy, with that in mind, had to give some concrete clues. Unfortunately, that's not there. Our resources are getting more modest, I mean human resources, the demographic potential that's getting thinner and thinner, year after year. That's more than worrying, and obviously, from what I just said, and material resources aren't on some envious level. In particular, speaking of these strategies, as some conclusion, I would rather say that what you have prepared for us, when it comes to the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, is more of an information on what should be done and how things are at this point. In these strategies, there is almost no vision of everything that awaits us, as the many problems I have listed thinks that the current government or any future government can't be seen, and therefore, when it comes to the Serbian Progressive Party, these two strategies are unacceptable to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27141	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian Radicals do not accept yesterday's argument by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac that his scheduled obligations and planned military exercises are an excuse for today's session, because he should have known that a regular session started yesterday and that these strategic documents in front of the MPs and that the Assembly has been waiting for two years to adopt, after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, deserve attention exclusively from the defence minister, because we now do not have that interactive communication, and I have prepared my presentation so that I only direct questions to Mr Sutanovac. I don't disrespect your role in the government, Mr. Milosavljevic, but you're only one soldier in the reserve, if you're under that obligation, and it is, as a citizen of Serbia, until the moment the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff lifts their obligation, and we can expect that they're going to take down the Army, because there's no more garrison in Kragujevac, a single soldier you can't meet, if you don't know, here's what I'm saying, because that battalion has been abolished, so all the Army has been withdrawn. The garrison building stands empty as a monument to something that once called the defence system of the military, then Yugoslavia, later the SRJ, but now the Serbian Army is not in the city from which I come. I'll go back to the National Security Strategy. General Kovac knows very well that the strategy began to be written in Boris Tadic's cabinet. Boris Tadic was elected president of the state in 2004, and then in 2007, after the collapse of the joint state with another Serbian state of Montenegro, he ordered his associates to have the National Security Strategy written in his cabinet, so that, as Boris Tadic said then, Serbia would be an exporter of security rather than an importer, whatever that means. But it turns out later that his so-called. The team of experts, not one Saper and Krstic, but others who are allegedly understood in the military and in the defence system, are unable to write a strategy for defence and national security, so the job was entrusted, following the adoption of the National Security Act and the Law on Defence, that is, the Serbian Army, at the end of October 2007, the Strategic Planning Authority, headed by General Kovač. I must tell you, given that I have been a long-time member of the Committee on Defence and Security, and that as a representative of the SRS on several occasions I have participated in international conferences where there has been a national security strategy, a defence strategy and why Serbia does not have them, I have followed all these work versions, everything that could have happened, and I have seen that in this termological and methodological approach, so to call it, there are no deviations from this book form: what is security, what is a potential danger to the state, but this essence and what is Serbia in the context of security, as it should defend itself, is not explicitly contained in this strategy. These are more general forms, the usual methods by which such professional work, to call it so, writes, and on the other hand, is abundant in some daily policy forms and some other expressions which are unnecessary in such an important document at different levels of the document, and when it comes to the Strategy of Defence and when it comes to the National Security Strategy, which is absolutely unnecessary. We need to know, and that's what every resident in this country needs to know, that national security depends on social opportunities, whether we live in a normal society, whether we have a stable political situation, whether within society relations are arranged properly and, above all, to look back at where we are geostrategically located as a country and what are the dangers that we face from the environment. It was nice to note yesterday that our authorised representative Mr. Boris Aleksic, this strategy on national security, I guess that's the key to everything, has not quite defined the location of Serbia, because when you look at our position, therefore we are the people who are the most terrible in this area, in this part of Europe, the Balkans, however you will, we are also a Danube country, we are a Pannonian and Danube country, we are also a country of one part of Central Europe, we are a Mediterranean country and we are a country that tends to this final part of the Balkans. And when you read carefully, if you have read, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, first of all you from DS, this document, you will see that the Minister of Defence and the Resort Ministry are offering a strategy to protect the country, to say in one part that the potential factors of danger are those in the other part of stability. These are some contradictions that no one in their right mind can accept. And why is one such document so important, written like that, around and with all these hollows and with these general forms? Well, because Dragan Sutanovac, as an advocate of exclusively Euro-Atlantic integration, means in the near future, as he wishes, Serbia's accession to the pact, has avoided mentioning what colleagues spoke about yesterday, which is, Serbia's commitment to being militaryly neutral and, on the other hand, to call for constitutional provisions that clearly define what conditions, under which military alliance and if Serbia could ever join, and that is a referendum. Yesterday, on the Defence and Security Committee, I said that I was convinced that at this point at least three-quarters of the population or four-fifths is an even better estimate, specifically against Serbia's entry into NATO pact. You have some political parties here who advocate it but, on the other hand, those countries that are eternal allies of the Serbian people, I mean, above all, the Russian Federation, think that these political parties do not advocate a friendly relationship with the Russian Federation. You allegedly advocated it, and now you have turned your head on the other side, so Russian President Dmitri Medvedev is invited to come to Belgrade, and for us Serbian radicals, and I believe for the whole patriotic Serbia, it is a great honor that the Russian statesman will come, therefore, at the highest level, to our country, but you do not show it when you should explicitly do so, nor do your representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Here, let me explain this to you. It's a strategic plan for the security of the Russian state and the Russian Federation. We were there last week. We held a regular session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Resolution Georgia – Russia, or Russia – Georgia, “War a year after”. The position and what our obligation is above all, if we want to be partners of the Russian Federation, were only spoken by representatives of the SRS in the Council of Europe – to support international law, to support care, above all, Mr Medvedev and Prime Minister Putin, for security and national security of the Russian state, for their citizens living in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and no state body is advertised on this issue. So how do you think you're friends, and that's clearly what Mr. Konuzin, the Russian ambassador to Belgrade, told you, how do you think you're so neutrally asking one of the most important strategic questions about the Russian Federation, and on the other hand, that you're scurrying with the NATO Pact?- I'm sorry. It just can't! Either you tell the Serbian citizens openly, or Minister Sutanovac and Boris Tadic – we are a NATO pact and we are working on it, as we know you are working on it. You've forgotten 78 days of senseless bombing and all the victims and everything that this military alliance has done to us, under the dictatorship of America and the Western powers, or you'll turn around nicely where our traditional allies and friends are. The whole concept of the National Security Strategy really shows where you want to lead Serbia. Only in one sentence, in one paragraph, mention the countries so-called. The BRIK groups, they are not so called, so besides, Russia, China, Brazil and India, in the context of some co-operation. So I'm really surprised that Mr. Kovac didn't react to it, because it's obviously Tadic and Sutanovac's political stance, mentioning some other regional associations. It is not mentioned, as Mr Alexic said yesterday, so neither the BRIK Group, nor the Shanghai Agreement, nor the Alliance that we have with Russia and Belarus, voted here, in this Parliament, on 12 April 1999, in both homes of the Federal Assembly, and the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic, but also mentioned other associations. Is this perhaps not this pact for the stability of Southeast Europe? You want to work with them?- I'm sorry. They directly advocate the entry of all Southeast European countries into the NATO Pact! One more thing to say, it is an important political aspect that Serbian citizens know. When you talk about separate processes of Serbia's entry into the European Union, without entering the NATO Pact, someone is here, my colleague Ostojic appeared to me, mentioned Biden's statements, so he said we don't even know what he and Sutanovac were saying, "eye to eye," and here we now see that the result is that the recent departure of the Sutanovac to America – don't think that these are separate things. Here are witnesses from your party, from the Democratic Party, from the G17, from the Socialist Party, from the Democratic Party of Serbia, that you don't think it's just saying Serbian radicals, everywhere, absolutely everywhere, and above all in Brussels, in NATO's pact headquarters -- they always see it as symbiosis, Serbia's entry into the EU and NATO's accession pact. Now you say -- we need to look at the factors that threaten us in Serbia. It is good that you remembered to say in the National Security Strategy – that the most important issue is the preservation of our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, but in that preservation of the southern Serbian province, you called for the wrong factors: those who have abused their role in the southern Serbian province, who have witnessed slaughters, murderers, those from the so-called "Serbs". The "Kosovo Protection Corps" is now translated into "Kosovo Security Forces", under the Eulexa Patronate, which you have nominated, primarily Tadic, prime minister and all ministers in the government, to do whatever they want down there, and the security of citizens, or our troubled Serbs, who have remained there every day is becoming more difficult. Therefore, these documents not only abound with all these gaps in this termological sense, but above all are not a clear definition of Serbia where it should go. This is evident from your political presentations and from the efforts of your representatives on all international forums where all this is said, and this is what gives me some hope that at some time, with great work and above all awareness of the people, to whom you have sold all these lies and deceptions, we will be able to return in this sense to the role of the Army that belongs to Serbia, which is traditionally really great and that we should be proud. Yesterday, our Russian friends spoke about the promotion of the book "Moskva - Serbia, Belgrade - Russia", because this year we mark 500 years of first meeting of Russian and Serbian officials. Indeed, I have not heard this from any of the defence ministry's representatives at those international meetings to say -- that Serbia is taking steps to join the NATO Pact, a policy advocated by Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovic, DS and the parties around it. But I am absolutely convinced that Serbia's victory, the first victory to be won in The Hague tribunal, which will be achieved for Serbia, the Serbian people and for all the soldiers and for those who have suffered for the country, will be achieved by Professor Vojislav Seselj, our president, and above all by what we are doing to promote the highest value, to make one day we have a strong and stable Serbia in which the Army will have its significant place, and not that someone in this way, with such poorly done strategic documents, is playing with its fate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27143	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27144	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Milosavlevich, it is a pleasure to see you here again. With you, we passed the Law on Electronic Trade and Competition Protection, the Electronic Document, you even defended a set of laws in the area of justice. With all due respect, as Minister of General Practice, you seem to be an expert on all these areas, and unlike the Prime Minister and your colleagues, you have really earned your salary at the post of minister. Believe me, I still have a basis for doubting that you have been able to read both of these strategies. They're very serious documents, which we've been very argumentative about here. Unfortunately, from Minister Sutanovac, the DSS MPs have not received any concrete answers to any concrete questions, no argument that would convince us and convince us that what was written in these two strategies is really right and that it brings such an improvement, as marketingly propagated by Mr. Minister and DS. The fact is that there is no consensus in the country of Serbia and in 2009 on the most important issues – national policy and all these things. It can't be an excuse to say, "Life can't wait," so we wrote this, and we'll make a deal on the way. You wanted to rule, you had a chance - four governments in the last ten years. Start a dialogue and let us sit down and agree on national goals. I don't think that's going to be a big problem if, as we heard yesterday, representatives of some ruling parties voted in December 2007 for Serbia's military neutrality to go to elections next year to get Serbia to get the president, so that they can join the ruling coalition in this parliament. It is unacceptable – now to pour ashes and ask for it as an excuse and some arguments, I think Serbian citizens should recognise it in time. These documents are quite confusing and contain some inaccuracies. Right away, the National Security Strategy is probably written by people who have dealt with this business and who know this matter, so it provides answers to some questions, but as a serious political document it had to be more seriously processed and contain some other elements, which we tried to quote as very important in yesterday's discussion. I will look back on that, because of the really short time we have as a parliamentary group, which we have left, that is, the two most significant issues we talked about yesterday. I don't know if you saw in this document, in the chapter – Challenges, risks and threats to security, what stands as one of the risks mentioned, which is: "The against-law unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence... "It is absolutely true, but the segment reads further: "The unfavourable development of the state of security and the application of 'The comprehensive proposal for a solution to Kosovo' (Ahtisari's plan), which is not accepted in the United Nations Security Council, can cause an escalation of violence in Kosovo and Metohija and become a source of risk and threats to the security of the Republic of Serbia and the destabilising of the region." That's absolutely true. Mr. Minister, you are sitting in a government that has accepted Mission Eulex in Kosovo. The Eulexa mission has a mandate to implement Ahtisaari's plan. What's this about? Who are you kidding and who are you lying to when you put this on – as if you consider this a security risk for the Republic of Serbia? Now, there may be a key role for you, as Minister of Trade, you may be able to tell us – who is trading in Serbia, what money and who is going to sell Kosovo to someone, who are we fighting and who are we really, truly, honest in this Parliament and our entire policy, we prove it from day to day?- I'm sorry. Someone seems to mind. If so, then it should be fair and go to the voters and say – we gave up Kosovo, we accepted it, and what we wrote is a colorful lie, that we are having fun, because life cannot wait. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27145	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, followed by the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27146	At first, I must draw attention to the fact that we have two documents, thank God, in the proposal alone, and the citizens of Serbia need to know that whether or not adopting this will not change anything. Since nothing's going to change, for starters I'm going to move this aside, not be burdened or visually, and now I'm going to explain to the citizens of Serbia what this is about, what kind of operation it is. Mostly the people who participated in the student protest, today they were gone, yesterday they were, the Dule Spasojevic, Dule Šiptar and this company here, among us, they could not be members of the local SRS Committee in Resnik, because it is such quality and such potential – reading "Time", NIN and some foreign magazines, taking two or three paragraphs from several newspaper texts, made two allegedly documents, which claim to be significant, deserve special attention and provides a solution to the major problems that exist in the Republic of Serbia. Probably two of the most significant areas are, not counting the Constitution, the Space Plan and what's called the doctrine of defense and all possible plans and security programs. They are most important by their multidisciplinary nature, because they cover almost all aspects of life in one space. You know, when such a serious job is taken to do unserious people, then we can rightly put these two documents aside, because these two documents can't bind anyone. Why am I saying that? We have Dossmanium in power, in any aggregate state, for which the law and the Constitution are neither sacred nor something that binds them. If it's a political matrix, then why would he commit them to a document like this? For the sake of the public, since they must present it as a serious document, they resorted to something that is completely unacceptable, yesterday we had a skilled maneuver by Boris Aleksic simply provoked the government's representatives at this point to show us with their mummies that they don't actually have theoretical knowledge. They laughed at everything and everything. And today we can unmistakably say that this is a set of paragraphs from some weekly people who admit that Serbia is in a situation and that this government allows all those abroad to plan and control the crisis, and that this government will co-operate in the crisis. These documents had to be made as permanent documents. You probably had to consider some of the experiences of 15, 20 years ago, when there was supposed to be some doctrine of universal defense, so he was just an outside enemy, so we didn't know that there was a "gay out of nowhere." Apparently, we weren't ready for these new challenges and risks, but in fact, financing the break-up of the former SFRY from abroad. A document made by the system – decided to sit with the 'one thing' on two chairs, so now it says on four, it'll be more stable. Where's the people? Where's the state? Where's the space? Where's sovereignty? Where's the integrity? From each of these aspects can be made a serious criticism and it can be seen that this is the most common provision so that Đilas, Krstic, Saper, and someone else, media promotion and this topic as, to God, Boris Tadic is being sikked. Boris Tadic is being sikked, so he will come to Resnik on Friday and open a dog hotel. What's the relationship? If you vote this thing that's going to make a commitment, here's an example for the citizens to understand better. In 2003. The forest was sworn here in that construction law, so a few months ago it was changed, or brought in a new one, and a million illegal objects were found. In Rakovica alone, there are several tens of thousands of illegally erected objects, which were built by local authorities headed by the DS. They're tearing down some hotel illegally built, and they can't say that the municipality is paying damages today. Well, then it's no wonder that in Rakovica, people say that their president of the municipality, they say, has 41 apartments in his possession; on some slope there are three houses he, Radjko and some Tadic son-in-law. There's a rumor. Check it out! Imagine, your president in Germany is planting "the tree of peace", and your president of the municipality is in the inn of a cancerous forest for illegal construction. And when are you true, abroad or in the land? We do not live what you do abroad, but live what you do here in Serbia. And you will commit someone to this strategy of yours. Who? 'Cobra? One plane to get up and that's the problem. What a multidisciplinaryity. Let's take human resources as an important factor in defence and security. Well, who trusts you with people? Lost people's jobs. Student protest promoted European values of higher education, you introduced children's tuition. Parents can't pay, there's no work, and the media is killing the will to live, to control the crisis. Why? There's no vision. It appears as an alternative to a vision called "promaja" – both left and right, and up and down, and north and west, 165 pillars, which some nonsense is lurking to people to just distract themselves from the main things. In Rakovica, you are all in power, only the SRS is in opposition. What did you do? Every 15 days, you pave the sidewalks, you move the curbs and narrow the street, you're in a position. Dacic's father-in-law is there in power. Ask those of Rakovic what you have in your possession, and that's why you've made a blockade, washed, beautiful, clean, suitable for the NATO Pact, suitable for the EU, and they're pulling here, destroying where they come from. What's he doing in Rakovica? Twenty-twenty-thousand people are out of a job. And they should enjoy the beautiful illegal construction and wealth of Raduk, Bojan Milic, Renate Radjujko and all of you who are in the coalition with them to end it. Here, on Friday, your president will open a dog hotel. The crab's on its way out, he's got a safe house, he's got a big brother, he's got a dream house, he's got a dog shelter, I don't know how you heard them ask for asylum from you, and you washed 30 million. And you took 166 hectares of the only agricultural cooperative in Belgrade to house locations, make private firms like what's called the 500-euro founding capital. If you've shown on these matters what your relationship to the Constitution and the law is, and by the way, your president of the municipality doesn't know that a new constitution was adopted in 2006, so what do you expect from these papers? What is in them is so epicly, significantly binding to all of you as part of human resources and what is involved in the defense. How normal a man to be a patriot today when he can only hear from newspapers, it's worth betraying the country. How do people organize themselves? Where are the challenges? What are the threats? In this document you wrote, the right way, and the solution for Serbia is to accept globalisation and move into Euro-Atlantic integration, and on the next side the biggest challenge is Euro-Atlantic integration, because it carries terrorism, organised crime. People, this only corresponds to those who broke the sanctions from 30 May 1992 to 2001, broke through sanctions, around this country were controllers and allowed tycoons to come to us today as organized crime. You made it possible for them to buy everything here for a reason. What do you think the material potential of our defenses is? 'Cobra? '"Protects dear n
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27147	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. After that, the People's Messenger Jasmina Milosevic. People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 102(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27148	I am advocating Article 27(1) point (3) and with regard to Articles 104 and 239. The resignation of the Administrative Board is a violation of the Constitution and of the law and of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27149	People's MPs, I refer you to reading the obligation by a member that allows you to get word of injury to the Rules of Procedure, where it clearly states that the same injury can not be spoken of twice in the same session. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. After that, the People's Messenger Jasmina Milosevic. (Elena Christmas-Talian, from the place: "Give me your word." You can't always rule out Serbian Radical Party MPs. Did I get my word? People's MPs, please don't throw them out of place. In what you wanted to point out is a member who has already been repeated. Does the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic want a word? No, I don't. ) (Elena Christmas-Talian: You are violating the Rules of Procedure. Don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Jasmina Milosevic has a word. Here you go. People's emissaries Elena Christmas-Talian, for disturbing order, throwing, I give you your first warning. [[Applause]] Here you go. (Elena Christmas-Talian: Mrs. Komic, you are violating the Rules of Procedure. ) The National MP repeats the offence, throws it out of the bench, which is punishable to members of 104 and to the obligation under Article 106. I give you a second warning. Thank you. People's MPs, the next measure that's under the Rules of Procedure for me to tell you is to take away words during this session. (Elena Christmas-Talian: You're breaking the Rules of Procedure, give me your word. ) National MPs, continue to throw out of place, to disrupt the order of the session and tell you the measure of taking away words at the session that is under way. Thank you. Here are your emissaries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27150	I'd go back to the subject, it's national security and defence strategies. Yesterday and today we had a chance to hear, I would say, different schools of opinion on the strategy in general, the national security strategy and what I mean at first, I don't know how important or not, but I really didn't read the Russian National Security Strategy. Maybe it's my handicap or not, but I think that essentially it can have something to do with our strategy, to that end, which should be a framework and a guideline on how to ensure security for our country and our citizens. But what we need to be relevant and important is how the countries in our environment have solved the issue of their national security strategies, for the simple reason, that they are closer and more similar to us both by size and by structure, and by mentality, whatever. In principle, we still need to be repernaissed, because at some point we will have to coordinate with them the strategies we have and thus strengthen some regional understanding that should be present. So, as far as, in general, what is a national security policy, what is important, and I don't think anyone has ever said that, on either side, is that it has to have a role both present and future. What does that mean? It must describe and define all national interests, set all guidelines for identifying existing and potential threats, both internal and external, and also favourable circumstances – not only to talk about threats only. What's the big deal? The National Security Strategy must represent a national resource. It represents a national resource, and as such, not only, as I said in the previous sentence, that it should define only threats and deal with threats, i.e. challenges and risks, it must be so elastic that in the future it can give us an opportunity to respond to some future challenges and some future circumstances which, for example, are completely unpredictable to us at this point. We listened to yesterday and today's story about NATO. Both sides. I'm not making a declaration right now, nor do I want to give my opinion. Sometimes it's a challenge, but it's equal to being neutral, or, as the challenge is to define, the challenge is to be completely neutral, so to remain neutral. The definition of neutrality actually requires one attitude, not a mere opinion, and that attitude itself must be a sound reasoning and it must be fully defensive in reality. I think if we define ourselves for neutrality, I'm just thinking, it's not about any insinuation, it's about neutrality itself that requires increased responsibility from ourselves and ourselves, and from us and from the state, because somehow we're used to having difolt, if we define ourselves for some side, we share responsibility. This was one story where we would have increased responsibility at the beginning. As far as our strategy is concerned, I am somehow more focused on the National Security Strategy than on the Defense. I guess everyone sitting in this room has read both documents and I don't want to quote the item per item now. I simply preferred to do things for the public and to simplify them, to make people understand why we care about the National Security Strategy, or the Defense Strategy. Like any modern national security strategy, which includes this one, which is both comprehensive and truly looks at everything possible, for the time being for us predictable, or internal or external threats both from domestic and foreign environments. It doesn't have to be the first thought when we talk about national security, let it talk about guns right now, about cannons. It's just that everyone here forgets that we have big infrastructure projects and other things to worry about, where this strategy supports one stability in the state. It is very important to point out that in the National Security Strategy, we actually have another instrument to create trust both at regional and international level. (President: National MPs, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. I just want to ask a question, I apologize for time, I have a question for the gentlemen of the Ministry. Our parliamentary group will support the National Security Strategy. I'm just curious, how are we going to address the issue of energy stability and energy security in the future? It also belongs to a national resource and it is not just a story that is currently, to say, trends in Europe. I just want us to have a deeper discussion on this subject in the future and that, if there is an answer, we can get an answer to the question of energy security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27151	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27152	On your part, I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure when you didn't allow Elena Christmas-Talian to explain the injury, which was referred to by certain members of the Rules of Procedure. You explained this by making it clear in article 100 that it cannot be pointed twice at the same member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured. However, in Article 100(2), it is literally like this: "The MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president, or the chairman, which has already been pointed out. '"We can't confuse that with the member we're referring to. It is possible to imagine that someone pointed out the same member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured and that the substance of the injury was different. It is possible to imagine, we can give as many examples as you want, that calling on a member of the Rules of Procedure does not necessarily mean indicating the same injury. The assumption that Elena Christmas-Talian, referring to these members, will tell you something that has already been indicated, is your guess. Based on your conjecture, you can't take away the word immediately. You should have listened at least to the beginning of the argument of the People's Parliament, to determine whether it indicates exactly the same injury in the conduct of the chairman so that you could then realise that the conditions laid down in Article 2, Article 100 have been met, on which you could and may have the right to withdraw the word from the MP. So I think that, in that sense, you hurt the Rules of Procedure and that you should have had a little bit more patience, even if, for some, 20 seconds, to hear if it was pointing to the same injury. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27153	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. By seeing the stenogram you will see that I consistently and equally apply the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly will declare the injury quoted and explained by MP Milos Aligrudic in the voting day, and with insight into the stenogram, you will see that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Article 239 cannot be quoted as being injured during the session, and your interpretation of the fact that, regardless of the matter, it must be allowed to get the word out, coincides with the basic spirit of a member who implies the right to the word because a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been observed. The right to the word cannot be misused, can only be used. If it's being abused, it's too bad for all of us. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27154	Madam President, honourable representatives of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, when we talk about the Serbian Defence Strategy, I will quote what it says in the Defence Strategy and what appears to be in this room and in this discussion the main problem of this strategy, and it says: "The strategy of national security is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to contribute through peace and stability to building and strengthening security." I will again quote: "through peace and stability it contributes to building and strengthening security". Apparently, some of the words "peace and stability" in the Republic of Serbia do not correspond. Apparently, some are best equipped with the words “haos, unrest, war, war conflicts, isolation, sanctions. ” Citizens of Serbia, as long as the Democratic Party has the most responsible role for key decisions in this country, to lead foreign, internal policies, and especially security policies, peace and stability will be our permanent commitment, because we have defined ourselves for peace and stability when we defend our Kosovo and Metohija against international institutions of justice, we also define ourselves for peace and stability when we strengthen the military and military capacities. There were really a lot of bile in this discussion, a lot of misunderstandings and a lot of strange calls to some historical circumstances and facts. I will be obliged to give some answers for the citizens of Serbia, some clarifications and to remove some of the doubts that may exist among Serbian citizens when it comes to this debate. First of all, we are honored here that we have not done this strategy professionally enough, that it has been written at the time of Mr Boris Tadic and that some people are not up to it. I have a lot of confidence in people from the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia. Like most Serbian citizens, we believe that the Serbian Army is capable of responding to the security risks of today. Whether there is trust or mistrust in Serbia's military Serbia, it is best said by a recent recruit's response to the Serbian Army. See what the recruit's response is in percentages. Whoever does not want to see it, and the response is 99%, it deliberately degrades the reputation of the Serbian Army in public, it purposely wants to say that Serbian citizens do not trust the military. Whether someone defines whether the military will serve with weapons, as most of us have done, or will serve the military as the law allows, but it is important that their legal obligation is carried out and that the Army of the Republic of Serbia has a response of more than 99% at the moment. I know some of the country's security is a hobby. And that they treat safety as a hobby and try to influence the security of the country from that hobby. As long as they do it as opposition parties, it's not a problem, but when you're in power and you get the responsibility to worry about the country's security, to worry about the country's constitution, and you're doing it out of a hobby, then it's a very expensive hobby whose price is paid by Serbian citizens. I'll just remind you, some people may have lost their jobs after October 5th, but neither the Army of the Republic of Serbia nor the DS nor Boris Tadic has lost one square centimetre of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about these security risks, they were not created in 2007, 2008, they were created in 1999, when some of the most vocal critics of this strategy were and how responsible they were for the situation in the country, for foreign and domestic policy. When we talk about whether Serbia should have an army that participates in world peace operations, we are immediately honored that we are sending our army into military operations abroad for the account of the NATO Pact. (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: this is the next item of the agenda.) ) You used that, sir, and when we discussed the strategy, you used it yesterday at press conferences, you used it yesterday when you spoke to this Parliament. So, what does history say? Is our army really defined to defend Serbia's borders or not, and has our military been stationed in Serbia through history, or have we sent our soldiers somewhere into the world, within the framework of UN Peace Operations? Those who were born in 1930, 1931, 1932, 1933, and now watching this TV broadcast remember in 1956 when Colonel Lazar Mussicki commanded our army as part of the Peace Mission Contingent in Sinai. We sent our army to Yemen in 1963, led by Colonel Branko Pavlovic, during a conflict between Saudi Arabia and Egypt. Not to mention the Peace Operation in Congo from 1960 to 1964. And do you remember Major General Slavko Jovic? The most responsible is that “blue helmets ” were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. He was in command from 1988 to 1990. In Sinai, we had 15,000 soldiers from the former SFRY, but most of them were made by the Army of origin from Serbia's territory. Of course our army is still involved in peace operations, of course we're defined to fight terrorism. If we look a little further, deeper into history, 1402 years ago, at the battle of Angola, for those who do not know, the battle of Angola was a battle between Mongol and Turks, on the part of Turks, as a vassal army, the Serb army, led by the despot Stefan Lazarevic, a man originating in Kruševac, but also by the sons of Vuk Brankovic, Đurađ and Grgur. None of us ask our army to be an important army today, none of us is asking us to be in a vassal relationship today, but those people who run this country are asked to know where Serbia's borders are, not to have someone wake up in this room and ask the question in front of the whole world, to say, please, where are the borders of Serbia? As long as we from the DS are in these positions that Serbian citizens have given us confidence in, we will never wonder where Serbia's borders are, as it is taught in the first class, it says in the Constitution. For me, Serbia's borders are clearly defined. Whoever doesn't know it should go back to first class and tell the citizens of Serbia in the next elections -- I don't know where Serbia's borders are, please, Serbian citizens, don't choose me, because if I ask the crowned heads of the world, the president of France, any institutions, where Serbia's borders, imagine someone asking you today where the borders of China are, imagine that the president of China is asking you -- excuse me, please, where are the borders of China, I don't know where the borders of China are. Of course we know where Serbia's borders are and of course we know how these borders are being guarded and we know where Serbia is. It will never happen that we say – the circumstances are difficult, the situation is unfavourable, the concerns are enormous, we will return the mandate to the people. We have been given the mandate and trust to govern this country, to enforce the laws, and to bring such a strategy. This is the first strategy the Ministry brings. We'll never show fear, doubt, reserve, we'll never show we're no match for temptation. We're here because temptations are like that. If they were smaller, they'd probably be someone else. When we talk about who wrote the Strategy, we just heard a very inappropriate criticism - says, so the one who wrote this strategy could not be a member of any local committee in the Resnik of a party. Of course, when that party doesn't have a meat committee in Resnik, there would be more votes there than there were box guards. There were more invalid votes in Resnik than they won and are now recommending that we be members of that party. I can't waste my time, nor can Mr. Dusan Spasojevic, who is not here in the O.R., to be a member of NGOs or some organisations that deal with security as a hobby. In a very serious way we are dealing with this problem and of course we will vote for this strategy. I also call on those who have a reserve on this strategy to think carefully whether they should vote or not. I was particularly bothered by the sentence, which was heard in this room when this strategy was discussed, your president. Please, you who speak the sentence - your President Tadic, tell us that we know who your president is. Is that Hashim Thaci, is that Tony Blair, is that Bill Clinton, is that Putin, is that someone who is now active, that we know whose interests you're carrying out?- I'm sorry. If Boris Tadic is not your president, if this is not Serbia's coat of arms, if this country is not your country, if this is not your country - tell us what your country is, who is the president and whose interests you are carrying out! First of all, tell the citizens of this country in elections and election campaigns. Please, when you speak Boris Tadic opens this or opens that, Boris Tadic does this or what, and say – you automatically send a message to Serbian citizens, but also to many other people who watch this transmission, not to acknowledge Boris Tadic as president of the Republic you do not recognise the Constitution, this coat of arms, this parliament as ours. Tomorrow you will say, "Your army." Then tell us what your army is. And don't share us by sharing Serbia, because it's not good, it's not good for Serbia, it's not good for you, it's not for anyone in this country. Boris Tadic is our president and the next time he beats you in the election he will be our president again, but also your president. And when we choose another president, it will be the president of all of us, such as the president of Serbia, of all citizens living in it. For the end of this presentation, I will ask you once again to read this strategy of defence and national security, to consider the arguments that we have made for you, to think about what you were doing when you were in power, to ask yourself, is it really so effective when you are in opposition to awakening such a sudden opposition conscience? It's good for a man when after power he's in opposition. They say the most difficult thing for the opposition is the first 20 years. She'll get used to it later. In those 20 years, they'll certainly have a dozen good proposals. I will be prepared to respect all the good and useful proposals as a member of the DS, as a national MP, but I will never respect the arguments of the type – your president, your army, yours or that. That's our president. This is our country, and I urge you to bring our national strategy for our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27155	Dear Members of the National Assembly, before we continue the work, let me inform you that part of today's session, in about 30 minutes from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly, will be followed by representatives of the students and students' parliaments of the Fourth Belgrade High School and the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, and that: – from the Fourth Belgrade High School: Trifunović Jelena, Dragoslavac Nikola, Lazović Jovan, Dragačević Nikola, Šubarak Ksenija, Milivojevic Dina, Šošović Lara, Gzdenović Aleksandra, Kozarski Vasilija, Radisavljević Ivan, Pribaković Katarina, Ristivojević Katarina and Ribić Kražić, Ranjelović Teodora, Petrović Katarina, Ninković Dragan Dragana, Radaković, Radaković Strahinjić, Repia Ivana Šilović and his Faculty of the Republic of Slovenia. I hope you'll allow me to welcome all of us to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're continuing our work. [[Applause]] Right on line, MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27156	Who knows which way to misread it? I argue that the DSS, and with insight into the stenographic notes, can be very easily established, has not mentioned at any time in this debate, particularly in the debate on the National Security Strategy, the participation of the Serbian Army, the Police of Serbia, in multinational operations, peace operations, etc. We said no consensus, no military neutrality, no systematicity, no wrong methodology, it was done who wasn't supposed to work, the Ministry of Defense just admitted that it shouldn't work unlike the defence strategy, no Prime Minister, no Minister. That's what we were saying, not... We didn't mention any multinational operations. That's the next item on the agenda. Some things have been said in an untasteful way. First, none of us are obliged to defend Boris Tadic's interest. Nobody, and that's said! Our interest as MPs is to defend the Constitution, defend the interest of the people, defend the interest of the state of Serbia, the interest of these young people, and that is the job of Boris Tadic! It's his job. It is not our interest to defend Boris Tadic's character and work! These times, I guess, are over with Joseph Broz Tito. The Socialists, who are now your partners, and in 1999 they were responsible, as you say, for these challenges and threats. Well, that's not true! Here, I have to defend them from you. – The biggest challenges and threats are against the law, unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo! What they had to do with it, they weren't the government when it happened. Let me ask you when you talk about peace and stability - in the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity, the Republic of Serbia is determined to use diplomatic, legal and all other legitimate means, in line with a solid constitutionally drawn definition to never recognise the decision of the interim institutions AP KIM! If you don't know what it says here, and this is what the Government has handed over to Parliament, ask people in uniform to explain to you what it says here. A man who will end up in the UN Assembly, he speaks English in front of 120 statesmen from all over the world, and you say it is the president of Serbia, I agree with you, that he often says in a joke that he is the only president of Serbia at large. Slobodan Milosevic is the former president who died, but has never been convicted. Milutinovic was released, a man is in Belgrade -- and he jokes to 120 statesmen that he is the only president on the loose, in a joke, he defends the interests of the Serbian state! I have the right as a People's MP to say that he does not defend them, that he has shamed Serbia in this way! And a speech like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27157	The time available for replica was used. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27158	Thank you. I finally got my turn, Mrs. Comic. Unfortunately, it has also been shown that during the debate on these very important two documents that finally came to Serbia's Parliament, politics is a victory over politics. We Serbian radicals believe that we are serious people and that Parliament is an organ or institution in this country where people to whom Serbian citizens have transferred their sovereign right to decide everything. We are obliged to show seriousness when talking about these things, not to talk about some resistance ideas, because some resistances have changed into MPs. Let's ask these resistances, who say that this strategy is based, among other things, and that peace and stability is being established in the region and in the country, what they did in Belarus or Ukraine, who paid them to go there and educate educators who were supposed to do the same job they did in this country. Who violated the country's security? You who are in power today, you who burned, burned, lynched, or someone else? So please, it may already be too late, because I am the last person to speak on this subject, to get serious and to realize that this is about the country's defence strategy and the country's security strategy. I'm not going to teach the Ministry's representatives, because the minister is gone, and unfortunately, the government's representative Cvetkovic didn't realize that this is the subject in which he should take part and how he participates and be present here, I guess he thinks he should just take an oath or show up to resign. Then it's better if he shows up and resigns as soon as possible and we choose a new government and a new Prime Minister and we go to the election. This way, people, you can't do it anymore. The strategy should be the highest political act in the area of defence, in which state and political leadership define how they will prepare, organise and implement defences in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines challenges, risks, threats to security and sovereignty of the state. Do we have this in this strategy? We don't. The military's tasks are defined in all defence structures, but tasks and obligations are given to all state authorities, from local self-government to the president of the state. Well, well, sir, you know, the president of the state isn't above us, he's not a 'god and a beating', and even if he's a crown head, he's not a 'god and a beating' again, but we're here, the people, the ones who decide everything. It expresses the political and principled commitment of the state with which they will cooperate, who are our friends, whom our friends in collective security can rely on in a state of war. Is there anything in this strategy? There isn't. Someone asked the question of the border. If you ask China, China will say - Taiwan is in China. If you ask this man who spoke before me, he will tell you: Taiwan is not in China, or there is someone else, or those from Taiwan will say, we are not in China. Don't talk about boundaries. Borders are variable, depending on the relationship of power in the world. Fortunately, we are entering the era of the bipolar world, I tell you - the border of Serbia will be Karlobag - Ogulin - Karlovac - Virovitica, eventually. That doesn't mean someone's advocating weapons, tanks, and I don't know what, and he's talking about young people's response to the army being 99%. [[Applause]] Please, it is 99%, but half of it and half of it goes to civilian military service. Why? Because they don't believe in a military like this, because they don't have a security guarantee, because they don't have the conditions to serve the military and because we have brought the army down to an immeasurable limit. The army is not what it has always been in Serbia, unfortunately! We need to determine whether the defence is sufficient to rely on a professional army, or who will train, to train the people, if it counts on them, since this pro-Western regime plans to abolish the service of a regular military term and introduces civil service in exchange. Now, gentlemen, if this is a list of good wishes, and it is, and I say it is because you don't even have financial resources to implement such a defence strategy or a security strategy because you're introducing and dropping a strategy on your examination of the Civil Service Act. So what kind of real strategy are you talking about? And if you wanted to make the right strategy you would ask for a consensus of political parties, you would ask all those who know something about it and who decide, then you wouldn't have here one document that won't bind anyone, that's round to corners, with a lot of hollows, like Swiss cheese, just to say -- well, we brought the Strategy, so now you're waving with it, you can take pictures. It is nice to hear, as it says on page eight, in Chapter 4, that "the defence policy of the Republic of Serbia is based on strengthening your own defence capacities," and then, again, in a set of military laws, throw us on the table of the civil service bill. I ask you - do you have an explanation that civil service personnel are capable and trained, and what will you do if 80% of young people decide to serve the military deadline? Is that when the Strategy falls on your exam? And how are you going to stimulate these young people to join the Army and carry a rifle on their shoulders? It is clear that the ruling oligarchy is working consciously and deliberately to weaken the military and human potential for the country's possible defence, and that the ruling oligarchy is relying on the co-operation and accession of the NATO Pact, none of you have even disputed, as reportedly the only protector of the defence of the Republic of Serbia. As you do not hide it, therefore, the first step is the Partnership for Peace, and then the accession of one of the greatest criminal organizations since the existence of the human race, which is the NATO Pact, because remember, this power would put us side by side with American soldiers whose policy led a total of 13 conquerive wars, if I have well summed up, from World War II to this day. And that NATO really is one criminal organization saying that during the SRJ aggression, at the Brussels secret agreement on March 13, 1999, you know very well, which, besides others, was also: Wesley Clark, General Roseman, General Anderson, Jacques Klein, William Walker, Bernard Kouchner, the worst of which was the fourth in a row, was published in the press with us, which reads: "In the event of Yugoslavia's resistance, you should kill civilians, destroy bridges, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, water tanks, infrastructure, trans-stations, power stations, power lines. By destroying the refineries, it causes an ecological disaster, "Vinchu" doesn't need to be saved." Gentlemen, if you want in a NATO pact like this, if your mind reaches two years back, and you can't even go back 10 years, then this strategy is good. Let me remind you, and what Mr. Dragan Filipovic, former head of the Serbian Intelligence Administration and former senior BIA official, said in his book "Anatomia of Globalism" about your proposals, since in chapter 2 you are talking about challenges, risks and threats to security, and you say, among other things, "separistic aspirations" – what does he say about it? The first priority - the fight against international terrorism, has been placed exclusively in the role of achieving US security interests. The second priority - the fight against national extremism, is aimed exclusively at Serbs. With this in mind, Dragan Filipovic, once a third man of Serbia's State Security, notes that the registration appears in the territory of Serbia as a "democratic right", and is not considered to be a security aspect. Therefore, it is one of the BIA's basic tasks to prevent today the reorganisation of the Serbian, patriotic, national front as the most dangerous group of interests of the state! - Do you recognize who this is directed against? Among other things, to all those who are anti-globalists, who are patriots, and I don't know how many such political parties there are in this House, you know very well. The following challenges are, in your opinion, "Intelligence Action", you say, "which foreign intelligence organisations carry out through illegal and hidden action poses a real threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia. ''It's a pamphlet, and that's why I'm telling you what Mr. Filipovic points to on this issue, as former Chief of Intelligence. The next priority is not this, counterintelligence work is a strict ban on dealing with Western institutions and their representatives. Thus, the orders of the American (quote) and the British advisers have been outlined that Serbia cannot, nor must, in the new security concept, have any state secrets other than those that appear in the context of mutual interests. In the new BIA doctrine, it is stressed that the counterintelligence aspect must not be forgotten, but must be shifted towards the common enemies of the democratic world, including the Russians, Arabs and Chinese as a priority. '" (Completed quote. ) Intelligence has been abolished, I remind you in the first phase of BIA reorganisation, and according to the instructions of American and British intelligence. We need to ask the team the next question, but unfortunately, there's no one to answer. Here, Minister Milosavljevic, probably, sells apples, there, now the military. According to which instructions does the BIA make Tito's UDBA, which has a priority to fight against Serbian patriotism, the national front? Does the BIA Intelligence Department do intelligence work? According to our data, she's been disabled from the intelligence work. Do the employees of the Intelligence Department have the status of an authorised official? We are also interested – who, when and with what explanation, abolished the intelligence work? If the Intelligence Department isn't involved in intelligence, it's as if it doesn't exist. If employees in that administration do not have the status of an authorised official, then they cannot do their job. As is known, intelligence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia deals with the world's leading intelligence services, as well as the services of countries in the region. And you all know it well. According to some data, the secret service in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is better listed than the Serbian BIA. The BIA is not allowed to do intelligence work. Without intelligence, the risks to our country's security are increasing multiple, and the BIA is unable to pair with the services of the countries in our environment, and especially cannot deal with the secret services of large states. In addition, this weakness of Serbia's security system also allows for a favourable climate for the emergence of parasecurity groups that you also know exist on our country's territory, and some of them have private listening and monitoring centres for individual Serbian citizens. The question now arises – how many of these private parasecurity groups are in Serbia today, who makes them and whose are under control? In the end, gentlemen, since you haven't listened to me enough and you don't have the opportunity to answer us, but this is all because of the citizens of Serbia, we are asking the question -- who is the director-in-chief of this kind of degradation of the security system in Serbia, which threatens the security of our country's citizens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27159	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure, namely, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group. Yes, the word has a People's Messenger, Vlajko Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27160	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I think that, regardless of the great differences that have been made during this two-day discussion, this is one of the most serious discussions ever held on some legislative proposal in the Serbian Parliament. I would like, in this addendum of exposure, to point out a few things without wanting to go further with MPs, who rightly and in accordance with democratic tradition had a different opinion. These strategies, which are proposed, of course to one extent, and not to a small extent, reflect the government's policy at the head of this country. It is certainly the head of another government that the strategy would not be like this or that the strategies would probably not exist at all. What is particularly important is that it is not realistic to insist on a consensus and the need to adopt a strategy of defence or national security unanimously. This is also very rare in the world, and it is impossible in Serbia and unnecessary, given that there are deep and fundamental differences and practically two concepts in the area. I think it is enough that we have had such a quality and content debate in the Serbian Parliament, as well as that citizens could get to know what the party is offering and asking, if we bring it down on two sides, and therefore decide in some of the next elections, and this strategy and this concept is something that I believe the citizens have supported in the previous parliamentary elections. I think the strategy is good and that this discussion has shown it, and that it is mostly attacked by a question in which it has not clearly spoken out. We have also had political, and party, and individual views on the need for the country's intensity and speed of integration into European and Euro-Atlantic integration, but I think that, in accordance with some current policy, the strategy has not given a final answer to that question, although it is clear that the path that is going and leading Serbia towards full capacity in Euro-Atlantic integration has been chosen. What must be progress and what opposition party representatives must acknowledge, it is that this document has been discussed publicly in the Assembly. He's got a lot of amendments. We have heard on the Security Committee from the Ministry's representative that some of the amendments may be adopted, but this is what is being offered, that the majority assembly will choose and we as the ruling coalition clearly stand behind this definition and assume absolutely all responsibility. I don't think the subject is just political. It needs to be realistic and to understand the fact that we live in a very difficult and insecure environment, that we are a country that has borders that 100 countries interpret in one way, 60 countries in another way, that we are a country located in the centre of a region that has been affected by war conflicts for 10 or 15 years, that in our environment we have states that are under international protection, and we are expected to help them survive. And that's what eliminates the political dimension of both of these strategies, and that's what gives this country and this country and the security authorities, the military, the police, everyone else a huge responsibility in the future. I believe that with this strategy we have made a good step and that we have confirmed everything that is done, first of all, in the domain, to say, the Ministry of Defence, in the last few years, and these are visible reforms and these are visible reform results in this sector. What I also pointed out yesterday, I would say the right way we have the Army of Serbia as the foreign policy capacity of a country and I think that this is the way this country should go, and that this is a completely different concept than the one that was in power until 2000, which brought us into conflict with the NATO Pact. Of course, there are different concepts, and if we were to look at these things black and white and look through the terrible sacrifices that occurred during the 1999 bombing, we would probably never be on the agenda, but also those who are criticizing it today, and some of them were the opposition at the time, know that this tragic situation has come, above all, thanks to the wrong policy that we have led as a state and as a people who have supported such a policy. We must have the courage to make a turn! We must have the courage to answer some difficult questions! We must have the courage to tell the citizens some truth that at this point does not see or does not have a whole majority! We must have the courage, too, to turn Serbia and our army towards the future by adopting this strategy! I think that during this debate, when we talk about some other accompanying laws, we are about to show that, regardless of the severe traumas that this country has been following over the past ten or fifteen years, as parliament we have had the strength to support an undeniable strategy and one orientation that will certainly open the space for the Serbian Army to become a constructive factor in the region. What is our ultimate goal is for the Serbian Army to become a leading force in the region. I think it's true patriotism, if we're talking about who's a patriot and who's a traitor. If in five or ten years our Army is the strongest in the region, if within five or ten years the Serbian Army is guaranteed to be the stability of all citizens in the region, not only Serbian citizens, if within five or ten years the Serbian Army is able to maybe, through participation in joint operations, return to KIM territory, that is, honourable MPs, the only policy that can contribute and achieve what in the past has ruined this country and the tragic results left behind. So it's a policy that needs to bring results and it's, I'm sure, in the next period it's going to be attacked, but I believe, I'm sure and I'm convinced, that there's the best indicator in front of us and the best factor that will evaluate the results of all that we're going to adopt after this session. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27161	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27162	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, respected members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel the need to use time that I have not been able to use in my first address, to take advantage of now, first of all, because, as usual so far, perhaps not to the extent to which it was before, there have been stories here and about what is not a topic and these topics have also been a reason for some to fight parties here, to try to disqualify individuals and institutions in some way to achieve some kind of political point. That's not what I want to do. I want to say that all that we have heard in the debate on these two strategies, the National Security Strategy and the National Defence Strategy, can essentially come down to a few remarks that show only one thing, which is that we are fundamentally different in the concept of a society that we are building and in the understanding of the position of the country that we want to build. We can talk about it for days, and I don't think much's gonna change. So one represents the concept that we had and that showed its results. I think every smart and responsible man if one concept shows bad results is trying to look for some better concept that will show some better results. What was one of the remarks is that there is no national consensus on national interests. I am really asking questions and I would like to know what of national interests, in addition to those defined in these strategies, which are: the preservation of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the country, the preservation of internal stability, the rule of law, the development of democracy, democratic institutions, integration in the EU and other international structures, the protection of life and property, economic development, the creation of a peaceful, stable and secure security environment, the preservation and development of international order, what else is missed, so what is not covered by national interests here? I really don't see anything. And in that sense, I may see this kind of assessment more as an objection that some are not guided by dialogue, that some have not been tried to create a prior political consensus on this document, but given the fact that these documents were in public debate, I think they have had the opportunity to engage in this public debate and show their well-meaning, and that they were able to show on that occasion whether they had any idea of what was missed here in national goals and interests, so they see, and all the others who participated in making these documents, and the debate about them, have not seen. One of the fundamental objections, it can be said, is that this strategy did not define the country as friends and enemies. I think it is due to a drastically wrong concept and approach, when it comes to realistically looking at what Serbia is, where Serbia is, what its capacities are, which are its ability to build its own security and be an active participant in building general security. Just for us, the value of these strategies is in it. So, that's why, not only do we support these strategies but we think that they are a huge step forward towards the truly more certain and better future of this country, because these strategies mean that we are looking for friends on all sides, not to mark anyone as an enemy in advance, but to know where the limits where someone's behavior becomes an enemy at the moment we defend our own interests. Also, one of the objections is that the country has not been defined, i.e. we did not refer to these strategies as 'no' to NATO. So, "no" to NATO, we didn't tell NATO the moment we entered the Partnership for Peace, and at that moment we decided that with this alliance, regardless of the past, the experiences that were tragic and difficult, but we understood that the position of the country, that it was the country's interest to overcome all the obstacles and misunderstandings that we had with the world, to question, even, the responsibility of our own policy in creating these enemies, to change our own policy from those who at some point were allies and friends, and then, in some political moments, become our enemies, to try to build that policy that will make our friends and our allies again. It is also something that we truly support these strategies and we believe that these strategies show not only that this country is willing to set its priorities and to use its capacities in the best interests of its citizens, but that those who have made these strategies are ready and able to see where these areas are in which we can defend these interests. So I call on all those who are our political opponents, those who have defended some different political concepts in the past, to look at the results of these political concepts and to say – okay, we will stand behind these strategies, because these strategies are realistically looking at our position and giving the possibility that the state of Serbia with its capacities builds a security future, not just for its citizens, but to be an active factor in building a security environment not only in the region, but also beyond. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27163	Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure, does he want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia. We move to a joint principled search of the 3-7th and 16th points of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE AUTHORITY AND OF THE AUTHORITY, CIVIL SERVICES, USES OF THE AUTHORITIES IN THE MULTINATIONAL OPERATIONS OF VAN SERBIA AND VBA AND VOA We move to a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Amendments to the Law on the Law on Serbia, Proposal for a Law on Military, Labour and Material Obligation, Proposal for a Law on Civil Service, Proposal for a Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia and a draft law on the Security Agency and military intelligence. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 16, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. MEP Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliamentary group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; New Serbia's Parliament group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Employment group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of People’s MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, as long as they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am informing the National Assembly that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to take part in these items of the agenda, and in a joint search of principle are: MP Dusan Bajatovic – MP of the SPS-JS Group; MP Konstantin Arsenović – MP of the PUPS; MP Vlajko Senic – MP group G17 plus; MP Dragan Šormaz – MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and MP Aleksandar Martinović – SRS. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a joint principle search. Does the proposing official, Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. I'm just asking you to register with the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27164	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament allow me to present to you the laws on the agenda today. The adoption of the Law on Defence and the Law on the Serbian Army in the Republic of Serbia has finally established an institutional framework for the organisation and functioning of a single defence system, thus gaining conditions and for the accelerated process of starting defence and professionalisation reforms of the Serbian Army. As a result, the proposals for the system laws that lie ahead of you are: - the draft law on military, labour and material obligations; - the draft law on civil service; - the bill on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the border of the Republic of Serbia; - the draft law on the military security agency and the military intelligence agency. After looking at the experiences so far in the application of the Law on Defence and the Law on the Serbian Army, there was a need for harmonisation of individual solutions, which is why amendments and additions to these laws were proposed. Let me now present the basic solutions contained in the above-mentioned legal projects. By amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, Serbia's Military Law has more precisely identified the authorities' responsibilities in managing, commanding and managing the defence system and provided a legal solution for more effective implementation of Serbia's military missions and tasks. At the same time, the diplomatic dimension of military co-operation and the presence in international integration processes in the field of defence and security, as well as the conditions for the engagement of professional military personnel in the structures of an international organisation or regional initiative, is being arranged. The most significant changes and additions also concern the establishment of military police controls on the legality of the application of police powers, as well as the disciplinary responsibility of a member of the Serbian Army. The need to introduce new disciplinary sanctions stems from the defence system's interest in keeping military discipline at the necessary level, requiring appropriate mechanisms adapted to the specificities of the Serbian Army, as the system's institutions. The proposed amendments and additions to those laws fully regulate the rights and duties of defence entities in a single defence system, in line with the security interests and needs of the Republic of Serbia, which is rounding the legal basis for the continuation of reforms on professionalisation, further modernisation and functional operational capacity of the Serbian Army defence system. The proposed Law on military, labour and material obligations and the Civil Service Act provides for the effective functioning of military, labour and material obligations in general, as well as the regulation of civil service in accordance with the Constitution and the law guaranteed rights to object. After the current normative arrangement in the field of military, labour and material obligations and civil service and several sublaws, for the first time a significant part of the function in the defence system is systemically governed by these laws. Compared to the proposed solutions in the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligations, I would point out the following. By respecting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adult persons at the age of 18 exercise the right and obligation to enter military records, with medical examinations subject to immediate reference to the military. Recruits refer to military service by territorial principle. The recruiting instructions for military service have been made available since 19 years of life, overcoming the problem of inability to employ indefinitely. Foreign recruits, based on education, employment or treatment, are given instructions for serving up to the age of 30. The law proposed new reasons for the delay, i.e. the suspension of military service, as the need for family care and others. The Serbian Army's reserve composition will be an active and passive reserve, with active reserves being filled in by publicly called competitions, promoting a doctrinal definition of the three-componentity of the composition and the military's purpose. In relation to the Civil Service Act, I would like to point out that the proposed solutions are in line with international standards guaranteeing human and minority rights and freedoms, with individual solutions more liberal than existing solutions in European countries, with full respect for the needs of the defence system. I would also point out that this law: 1) provides for the exercise of the right to object to the conscience of the recruit and member of the reserve staff; 2) civil service is carried out from 19 to 27 years of life, exclusively until the 30th year; (3) the determination of civil services and the reference to civil service is carried out in cooperation with the competent republican authorities and authorities of local self-government by territorial principle; (4) the rights and obligations of persons in civil service and civil service institutions and 5) introduces training of persons in civil service services. Looking at the importance of the proposed laws, the Ministry of Defence regularly informed the public and all interested, in order to gain insight into the proposed solutions and achieve their essential improvement. Transparency in the drafting of the proposal has contributed to the essential contribution of the adopted laws to the reform of the defence system and the normative arrangement of the functions of military, labour and material obligations and institutions of objection to conscience and civil services. The adoption of the law on the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia aims to bring the competences of managing a single defence system of the Republic of Serbia in line with the powers laid down in the Constitution, the Law on Defence and the Law on the Serbian Army. This creates conditions that the Serbian Army can be used outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, following a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in line with the needs of defence and the interests of the Republic of Serbia. This law defines a unique approach to the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces, and above all, the composition of the Serbian Republic's MUP, as well as other state administration bodies. The existing legislation defines and interprets the use of these compositions in multinational operations, which exceeds this law, and this area is regulated in accordance with the national, security and defence interests of the Republic of Serbia. This represents a significant factor, given that multinational operations go from classical to multidimensional, or complex operations. In practice, the need for other state institutions to be engaged in these operations, in addition to members of the armed forces, which also allows for this law. In relation to the proposed legislative solutions, I would also point out that this law regulates the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in missions, tasks, to preserve national, regional and global security and peace in the world. Basic principles and principles are laid down on the basis of which it can be decided to refer members of Serbia's military and other defence forces to multinational operations. A procedure is being arranged to refer members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces to multinational operations by the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Specific conditions and restrictions under which members of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces can be referred to multinational operations and regulate powers regarding the regulation of the rights and obligations of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces engaged in multinational operations are prescribed. The participation of the Republic of Serbia in multinational operations is not only one of the three defined missions of the Serbian Army, in addition to defending the country and supporting the civilian population in countering security threats. In today's world, this is an extremely important instrument to strengthen our country's foreign policy position, which would give us greater opportunities to achieve our own national interests. In particular, I would like to stress that the nature of these missions is a humanitarian character with the intention of helping to preserve peace and create conditions for normal life in conflict-affected areas. Our country has defined achieving its priority foreign policy objectives through integration processes and respect for international law. Finally, I would like to point out that by adopting this law, the decision on each future mission of the Republic of Serbia is made anywhere in the world by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The need to pass laws on the Military Security Agency (VBA) and the Military Intelligence Agency (VOA) stem from the obligation laid down by the Law on the Foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the fact that the applicable 2002 legal solutions do not meet the requirements and requirements expected in modern conditions by military security services. In particular, I would like to point out that the law is fully in line with the modern security-intelligence needs of importance for defence and that it represents a significant contribution to achieving the interests of the national security of the Republic of Serbia. The conditions of the amended security environment have provided the proposed solutions with modern mechanisms to carry out security-intelligence operations with international democratic standards, recommendations and procedures. For these reasons, this law accurately determines the responsibilities of military security services and their place and role in the security-intelligence system of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence. The application of powers, i.e. the application of specific procedures and measures, with the implementation of the highest standards for the protection of human rights, shall be regulated. The mechanisms of control and supervision by the executive authority are being improved by the introduction of the 'General Inspector' at the level of the Ministry of Defence and Internal Control within the agencies. Presumptions are being created for the continuation of reforms in the defence system, while respecting international standards in this area. Compared to the proposed legal solutions, I would point out the following. The military security agency is responsible for the security and counter-intelligence protection of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army and has the authority under established competence to collect data in secret through specific procedures and measures, with legal restrictions. In modern conditions, the application of special procedures and measures, which entails the taking of preventive and operational activities, is a necessary instrument to combat and eliminate threats to national security, or security from the importance of the defence of the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, the purpose of the secret collection of data has a superior function of protection, in order to firstly warn about threats directed towards the defence ministry and Serbia's military. In approving specific procedures and measures, optimal harmony and balance have been achieved between the operationality and efficiency of their application, on the one hand, and the interest and protection of human rights, on the other hand. The law specifically provides for a way of handling when it is estimated that powers should be applied to other natural persons who are not members of the Serbian Army, i.e. employees of the defence ministry. The draft law lays down the competences, tasks and tasks of the VOA to carry out military intelligence tasks in order to protect the defence system, as well as the way in which data and information related to potential threats from abroad are handled. In the framework of the mandates laid down, VOA shall be empowered to collect data in secret using specific procedures and measures with the prescribed conditions and purpose of data collection. The introduction of the "General Inspector" and "Internal Control" institutions within the agencies, with the already existing control of the competent state authorities and other institutions, has improved the control mechanism and supervision of the work of these agencies. In doing so, this law provides for the possibility that a citizen who considers himself to have been violated or denied human rights or freedoms has the right to address and seek protection from the competent authorities. Madam Chairman, the adoption of this law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency will establish an institutional mechanism that the military security services can effectively respond to the modern threats of organised crime and terrorism, as well as any other threats that pose an indirect or direct threat to national security, or security of importance to the defence of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you all for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27165	Before we continue our work, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group is MP Zoran Ostojic. Do the committees want the word? Does the Defence and Security Committee's rapporteur, MP Konstantin Samofalov, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Laslo Varga, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Ratko Vlatkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27166	Thank you, Madam Chairman. For this set of laws, in a way, the SPS-JS MP group came forward yesterday and I wouldn't go back to this set of military laws. I really want to support one thing, and I hope that the MPs will be informed of it in full quality in time so that we can decide in full quality, which is the use of our forces anywhere outside of this country, whether it's doctors or professional soldiers. Other, what I can say, since I've been for seven or eight years, practically, through the Security Control Commission, which through the Defence and Security Committee, I've been directed to everything that's happened with this set of laws, that some legal solutions are being passed from both the previous government and the government there, and this current Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic. We can find out that this set, so to speak, military laws, is more or less something that we have talked about and had the opportunity to meet and some professional public, general public, I suppose, and a large number of MPs before they entered the assembly procedure. What I want to talk about in particular is a bill on VBA and Voa, for a number of reasons. First, from several visits to these institutions, we could conclude that these people were on the verge of working illegally and on the border of the law, because they could not take all the necessary measures that were sufficiently arranged in law. This legislative proposal fully defines both measures, and ways, and procedures, and arrangements within services and their jurisdiction and means of funding, and what we may, in some ways, particularly like, which is the way of control. It can be debated here whether it is good that the General Inspector is directly subordinated to the Secretary of Defense or that should be otherwise positioned, in any case, as the role of the Inspector General is specified here if we get a quality man, and here is a high-level scale, the Inspector General will really have insight into one and the other services. It also needs to be welcomed, and for the first time, the institution of Internal Affairs has been introduced here, is that the people who are set up there can be some kind of criticism and little criticism, directly subordinated to the directors of the agencies, but are legally obliged to notify the relevant assembly committee in the event of any illegality. In that sense, I want to point out the need for both the National Security Council and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, given their competences, when they choose these people, to take care of the integrity of these personalities. It is not enough to say that they are non-partisan personalities, it has been shown in practice that these are not sufficient guarantees, but that, above all, must be a person with full personal integrity and adequate expertise. Another feature, which I would like to point out, is that by passing this law, you can finally go into work and make full form and in full quantity, so to speak, sublegal acts, because in fact we will only have fully arranged work of the Military Intelligence and Military Security Agency. The third feature, which can be said here, is that, in some ways, even the areas of interest of the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency have been expanded, but the circumstances and the list of challenges we face have changed. So it would seem to some that this list of jobs that are listed here doesn't necessarily have to cover only military persons, but the challenges that are faced with terrorism, crime, money laundering, corruption, etc., well, these are not only military challenges but they are absolutely touching both civil structures and they are good that, in this law on security agencies and in these laws, these things are in a good way, in a clear structure of the role of the National Defence Council, the roles of the Government, the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Staff, the Security Information Agency, in some way well done. So, in my understanding, and for seven years I've been serious about these affairs, this is a serious improvement in the way the services are going to work, and that's where I think about the Bureau of Coordination, as well as the National Security Council, and I like how the orderly way that services should communicate with each other is, for the simple reason that in the relatively recent past, we could notice that sometimes communication between different security services wasn't perhaps on the right level. As far as civilian control is concerned, it's arranged as we expected. There's a competent assembly committee, there's his powers, there's a certain role of other civil structures, and there's nothing special to add and to subtract, it's consistent with some of the standards that we've been familiar with before. What we can also find here is a way of funding, or as it is said here, that they are financed from the budget. There's probably some other income. It's not necessary and it doesn't have to talk too publicly, I'm not talking about illegal incomes. What I want to point out is, when you look at the financial reports and you see how many tasks these two services have ahead of them, and how much of the funds they're funded with, and by, especially, the funds they need to be equipped with, then you'll see that there is, in my understanding of things, a simple, insufficient fund and a very insufficient fund of funds for the work of those services. In a technical sense, when it comes to the operation that these services would take, to say the third parties, bodies, organisations, individuals, it is quite well solved and what was not new to me, but it is new in the acts that I have reviewed, it is clear on what conditions the service can use the assets and assets owned by the Republic of Serbia, possibly how it can benefit the property of individuals and, what I found interesting, how it can use technical means, let's say, in the area of telecommunications, which, by law, is also provided for in a clear way. Of course, there's always a shortage, always the work of these services, in a way, which, by their merit, which they do, is covered by a veil of secrets, but this law, when it's passed, allows for a step further. It's not perfect, it's got things here that might be set up differently, but in any case, it enables it to start reforming these services, to give a transparent insight into their work, without reducing their efficiency, on the contrary. Dear colleagues, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will support this whole set of laws, so that I do not declare them individually. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27167	The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27168	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, respected members of the Department of Defense, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, is before us this set of laws, and right at the beginning to say that he is, in any case, contributing to all these problems, which are here, better done, improved, and I think it is certainly commendable. Since a united debate is being held here, I will still go to some of my suggestions, objections and sightings. I don't think what's right should be particularly commendable, but I want to point out right now that I am personally speaking as a man, against the Civil Service Act, that's my personal position, but since the Constitution introduces the term 'Consultation of Consciousness' and allows civil service as a form of regulation of military obligation, my personal position in this case is not important. That is why I sought to make my contribution towards improving legislation that would harm the least, not only the state, but the individual, in order to train in the event of war. I have a need to express some of my personal feelings that I don't direct to the Minister of Defense or the Ministry of Defense, but simply what I feel as a citizen of this country and looking through this regulation as it is now. When it comes to the obligations and rights of citizens in the defence of the country, it is evident that there are discrepancies in the constitution itself. I'm not a lawyer, and I might see it differently, but look at the reasons for these two laws. In light of the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law, in fact, all of them are listed as the constitutional basis for Article 97(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia to regulate and ensure the defence and security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, and measures for emergency cases. However, in the light of the Civil Service Act, it is clear Article 45. The Constitution which establishes that a person is not required to fulfil, contrary to his faith or beliefs, a military or other obligation involving the use of a weapon, and that a person who is called upon to object may be called upon to fulfil a military obligation without obligation to carry a weapon, in accordance with the law. However, I tried to find this, the Constitution did not provide for an obligation to serve the army, but therefore an objection to conscience is foreseen. I have no comment which problems can arise. Freedom is easily lost, and very difficult with great sacrifices it returns. In order to successfully defend one country's freedom beyond many factors, certainly that training, love for the country, expressed patriotism, I would put it first and that is a very important condition, with a material factor, that freedom can be defended and defended. In view of a number of other activities we are withdrawing, especially in the direction of devaluation, and also in the demeaning of patriotism, the question arises whether these preconditions are provided. I don't think so, because a large number of young people decide to object to their conscience, not because they're convinced of it, but to be as close to their home as possible to their mother, and possibly tomorrow, in the event of a war, they tend to take refuge in the wind. I've made an amendment to Article 3. The law on military, labour and material obligations that has been accepted. Its acceptance is logical because it stems from legal and constitutional provisions. Personally, I'd be much more pleased if that amendment hadn't been accepted. The logical question is why? The answer is simple and devastating, because we have called that we have citizens of lower and higher order. Those who will bleed and give their lives for the freedom of this country, and then be dumped, ridiculed, humiliated, like heroes from the story “All these people will gold out”, and those who will quietly observe all this from their houses and apartments, and possibly hide themselves in shelters, dealing with various businesses, and many of them with war profiting and ultimately harvesting the fruits of their work, making fun of those first ones, and perhaps sending them to various courts like The Hague. All this stuff I gave, it really doesn't apply to the Department of Defense. I simply needed to say it in front of the Serbian public. When it comes to these laws, I am now turning into concrete, personally I believe that the issue of civil service as a form of regulation of military obligations should not be within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. The military bonds that opted for civil service and were accepted by their consciences have nothing to do with the military. Can it be said that the person is capable of defending himself if he spends nine months in a public utility company on greening, cutting or at a theatre, a gerontological center, working with disabled people? Certainly not. They're just free labor for those facilities and they took other money. In the event of a war or an emergency situation, they are engaged on the basis of a labour obligation and out of armed formations. If so, and it is, then that function should be taken over by someone else who demonstrates the need for a level of training work during the service of civil service. And this problem is highlighted only for the initiating of possible future solutions, because its change is now absolutely impossible. It means that some future solutions to the organisation and realisation of civil service are considered as forms of regulation of military obligations. The question of civil service training is a special story, and regardless of what the law calls it, I think that, simply put, it is not there and that the proposed forms are just to cloud the problem. When considering the contents of both these laws, on military, material and labour obligations, and I also think of civil service, I must point out that, in my view, this civil service law has been better processed, which is little and incredible given some existing experiences. I believe that when the law on military, labour and material obligations was agreed upon, the views of previous solutions were firmly maintained, and some are even less regulated. It is incomprehensible that there is no opportunity to resolve some issues that have been burdening this system for years, such as the problem of military taxpayers abroad, etc. What are the basic remarks? If we are interested in serving as many young people as possible under arms and thus being able to defend their homeland, this law should provide for stimulating and destimulating measures that would affect young people’s choice of forms of military service. These laws do not contain and even have elements that stimulate civil service. The orientation of the professional army, which is largely small and insufficient to defend the freedom of the state, is not the solution. It alone cannot carry out the task and should not justify efforts to neglect the preparation of Serbia's state to defend its independence and territorial integrity. The objection of conscience should enable those citizens who really have such a personal and moral conviction. People like that have always been because of their beliefs, and they went to prison. However, we have a situation that if anyone meets those conditions, he has the right to object, whether he is important or true. He does not, in practice, suffer any consequences. Clearly, we cannot enter the psyche of individuals, but stimulating and destimulating measures should be such as to destimulate and stimulate civil service. There are no or minor measures in the law. I want to pay more attention to this issue, and that is, by comparing Article 33 of the Law on Military Obligation and Article 5 of the Civil Service Act, these two members state the conditions when a soldier is unable to object, with conditions for serving a military term in uniform, without weapons, less than conditions of service in civil service. First, I personally don't see why there's a difference, but right now it's less important than what I want to point out. Namely, those conditions must be met by a military official until he has been given an objection to his conscience and until he has served a military term in uniform or civilian, such as, say, not having a license to carry and hold arms. However, this right can be exercised immediately after the regulation of the military obligation, as there is no emphasis on the law that this right can after all be achieved. I have information, say, that, in many EU countries, the right to compete in certain key places is conditioned by a competition that can compete with a person who served a military term under arms. So that's one of the stimulating measures. Next, when it comes to a material obligation, I don't think the bill promoter has gotten enough into the essence of the problem. The envisaged solutions are based on the foundations of some previous political and economic systems. The current situation has huge differences. The economy is at a minimum of existence. Many significant defence companies do not exist or function at a minimum. A private sector has been introduced with many foreign capital and ownership participations, and the ratio of those owners to the needs of the military and defences has been undefined, uncertain, least said, with a high probability of obstruction. I have to admit, I don't have a proposal for a solution, which is why I filed a minimum number of amendments. I think we need to be aware of this problem and that it needs to be specifically trained and resolved. As a party, we submitted a significant number of amendments and our wish was to improve these two laws. A minimum number has been accepted for those who are not so important. I have to admit, I don't understand the promoter, which is why he didn't accept the essential proposals. If we as members of Serbia's PUPS and individually belong to someone, let's say, the older generation, were more radical in proposing newspapers, I don't understand why the younger ones don't accept it. All these amendments will be expounded, but I will give just a few examples of how some countries have solved it, i.e. examples that have burdened the former system, and could not have been otherwise solved, because this legislation did not allow it. For years, there has been a problem in serving military obligations by those who live or live abroad. Their response to this obligation for many means a violation of life's existence, which is why many have given up Serbian citizenship, or have completely given up their return to their homeland. According to my available data, about 10,000 young people give up Serbian citizenship annually. Is that our goal? To one of the amendments, I have proposed one of the possible solutions – that this obligation be resolved through redemption. It is present in some countries. It can be solved differently, but it's my motive to suggest regulation of military obligations through ransom simple, because I think it can be symbolic. I suggested that this amount of ransom be regulated by the government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence. What does that accomplish? It is achieved that with these young men, I believe, we will create the feeling that it has contributed to his homeland and is losing its sense of desertion. The second example is the problem of those who are prone to violence and serious crimes, and on this basis are on the basis of the maintenance of the prison sentence. I have proposed that these persons, if they serve up to 30 years and are due to go to military service, be required to undergo a specialist examination for the purpose of assessing their ability. So it's about people who are prone to violence and it's dangerous to bring them into the middle of what the Army is like. Especially when it comes to liberalizing the service of the military. What consequences may arise is not to explain separately. The explanation that the amendment is not accepted, because it is not provided for by the Regulation on the assessment and competences prescribed by the minister, I think it is simply unacceptable. Is the rule older than the law? What's the problem with adapting the rule to the law? On other issues and suggestions such as the recognition of a job internship, then, the traineeship for reserve officers and others, there will be detailed wording in their explanation. The aim of these amendments was, with respect to the objection of conscience, to destimulate young people towards civil service, and to stimulate military service. No matter how much the amendments are accepted, I can say that these laws provide their basic function, but I'm only sorry that there's no opportunity for us to improve any more things, solve them, and that in that way, neither young people have any problems, nor that the state has any problems with those people tomorrow. When it comes to supplementing the Law on Defence and the Law on the Serbian Army, we have tabled six amendments to these two laws. The proposals are necessary, that's what we've figured out and assessed. One of the amendments, which we have proposed, refers to the Law of Defence and Five to the Law of the Army. We have no important objections to the Defence Act, and the amendment to be submitted refers to the defence minister's obligation to form a budget fund to solve housing problems, and not to be able to achieve it if it is someone's good will. The problem of solving the housing needs of members of the Army, retired officers and senior officers, gentlemen, is well known to you from the Department of Defense. For the sake of the public, I would like to present the information that there are about 20,000 residents, of which seven thousand pensioners, by two thousand retired officers, a suboffice lives in a collective housing facility. If nothing is done on that plan, many of them will not welcome the solution to this problem, not just them, but many active elders present. Therefore, the said fund is a good solution and needs to be formed as soon as possible, well designed to fill it. Besides, I believe that many can invest their resources in that fund. Compared to the draft law amending and supplementing Serbia's Military Law, I wish the defence minister were here, I want to ask one question, and it's about the Army Law. Is the law being passed for the sake of form or to be implemented and respected? The answer is, of course, simple – every law must be implemented, including the Law on the Army. Its implementation is responsible for the restoring ministry, in this case the Ministry of Defence. And if so, and it is, it was a unique opportunity for me, unfortunately, I don't know if I'm going to have it, to ask you a question – why is Article 193 paragraph 2 not being respected? Serbia's Army Act? To remind you, it was an obligation to adopt an act within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the law to regulate the way, the procedure, the dynamics of the reconciliation of the achieved and the unmistakable obligations towards the users of military pensions. Meanwhile, interest has increased, many have initiated a court dispute, some of them have achieved this right through court, so the debt has doubled and thus the state has been damaged. There's no excuse for that, and I think someone should answer for that. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Serbian Army will support PUPS, and if these amendments are accepted, we believe that some weaknesses would be eliminated. Otherwise, we feel that some mistakes are being made again and some of the rights assumed by the subordinates are legalized, in violation of their fundamental and acquired rights. It is article 17, which discriminates against acts, titles and knowledge, by saying that an officer, or a sub-officer, can, without his consent, place them in a formational place directly lower, with the detention of the right of their rank and position, but has forgotten to say that they are punished because they do not have conditions for further progress. The disputed Article 22, which lays down the base for the calculation of salaries and gives the right that the Government may establish a lower base than prescribed, if the budget is insufficient, does not state to what level the base may be reduced. Theoretically, it can be abolished. When it comes to the bill on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that no engagement, both the unit and individuals, cannot be realised without the consent of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps it was necessary to liberalise unit engagement issues in humanitarian operations, especially in the case of neighbouring countries where the disaster occurred can be transferred to the premises of our country. We only insist that it is clear that the Republic of Serbia is primarily a commitment to the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations of peace and humanitarian character, and in others, depending on its national, security and defence interests. (President: People's MP, time of 20 minutes has been used, which is at your disposal. I don't think there's any need to comment specifically. So we will support this law. To conclude, when it comes to the draft law on the Military Security Agency, I think he's well done, that what's very important for the work of these two services is foreseen. We have no objections, so we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27169	I would like to inform the National Assembly that the authorised representative of the parliamentary group is the Serbian MP Bozidar Delic, who wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27170	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, as an authorised representative of the SNS, I will speak of this set of military laws as proposed in the agenda. First of all, I'm going to say something about the amendment law and the addition of the Defense Act. Now that this law is before us, we who were also in this assembly in 2007 remember that even then we pointed out the failures of this law, before the congregation's majority adopted it. Then you rejected the opposition's amendments, you said you passed a modern law that would allow for further reform of the defence system and remove the narrow throats that slow down that reform. Today, two years behind that, you're telling a different story. Now your law is dysfunctional and you are again proposing new changes to, as you say, "round the legal basis for implementing the reform of the defence system". I'm afraid, gentlemen, when you round this defense system that nothing will be left of it, that is, only the Ministry that is doing well in spending people's money from the Republic of Serbia's budget will remain. It's strange that some new solutions are worse than the solutions given in the Law that you want to change. Take, for example, Article 2 which amends Article 8. Defense law. The current Defence Act is a solution that is much better than the proposed amendment. In the current Law, members of the military are required to uphold international and humanitarian law in all circumstances, in the exercise of combat and non-combating activities, which means that all conventions of the 19th and 20th centuries, whose signatures were all states whose continuity today continues, the Republic of Serbia. The new proposal requires that members of the Serbian Army adhere to international humanitarian law and international standards on the use of force. International conventions only know international war and international humanitarian law. Gentlemen of the Ministry and Government, how long should your service, humility and courtship go to your bosses from the West? Everyone who understands this problem better knows that the NATO Pact and the U.S. in their terminology are throwing out the term "war" and replacing it with the terms "camping", "humanitarian interventions", "humanitarian operations", etc. We have experienced such a "humanitarian campaign" called "the Merciful Angel" in these places ourselves. Also, all experts in the field of polymetic, strategy and international law clearly say: there is only war and humanitarian law, and all the standards you speak of are derived from these rights. I think it's time for you to stop acting like that once and make such proposals to this congregation. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on the Serbian Army, this is also a law that was passed on the same day of 2007, we also pointed to a large number of shortcomings, we gave a large number of amendments that were not respected. Today, the minister also admits in an interview with the Time List that there are many mistakes in the law, bad solutions that interfere with the functioning of the Army. What kind of an ex-wise mind is that? In our people, there's a saying about later wisdom. I think all MPs will remember those proverbs, so I don't have to go out here in Parliament. According to my calculations, 74 interventions were carried out in the text of the basic law in these amendments and additions. All right, Shormaz, I'm going to tell you this particular proverb. We have conducted several interventions with our amendments to make some views more precise and clear. When reading the basic law and the proposed amendments and additions, it cannot be seen that new solutions are completely contrary to the basic law. Let's say, Article 73. The law stipulates that persons who finish the Military Academy are referred to a traineeship for the purpose of gaining practice in the exercise of their duties on their own. That, when I read in the text of that law, was strange, as the students of the Military Academy refer to training in the units during school, so when they finish the Military Academy they are ready to perform their duties on their own. The new solution in the proposed amendments, i.e. Article 19 supplementing, i.e. Article 73, provides that persons admitted to the military service, who have not completed the Military Academy, may be referred to the traineeship for the purpose of obtaining practice for their own duties. I think this is a good solution, to correct that error from the basic law, but these changes and additions are made new. It's not good for a traineeship for people who haven't finished the Military Academy to be proposed as a possibility. It's supposed to be a commitment, and we've also tried to correct the amendment we've made to this article. I draw attention to Article 22, which intervenes in Article 55 of the Basic Law, which discusses the salaries of professional military personnel. The government is given the possibility to change the legal basis for the salary account, which is 75% of the average salary in the Republic of Serbia. And that when, he says, the government fails to provide enough funding in the budget. This is just inadmissible. In the near past, some other governments have done so, reducing salaries to professional members of the military, sometimes 50% below the legal minimum. So today we have several tens of thousands of cases, lawsuits in county courts, and a number of lawsuits are also in the Strasbourg court. The debts of the Republic of Serbia towards these persons have crossed one billion euros. If not this authority then some other day will have to put an end to this problem. Gentlemen of the government, you must understand once that the holes in the budget, which have been created because of your poor work, cannot be ironed through the military anymore. I witnessed for many years that it was done, while I was an active member of the Army. You can't cut the salaries of the employees in education or health care employees, because they'll strike right away, stop working, get out on the street and make a problem for you. That's why the Army's here. She doesn't have the right to strike. He can't get out on the street. Because when you miss a few billion dinars in your budget, it's simply taken from the Army, because it has no right to rebel. This member of your motion to amend and supplement the Army Act goes that way. It's so dangerous. That's why our amendment suggested that this member be deleted. As for the law on military, labour and material obligations, this law regulates basic issues related to military labour and material obligations. The solutions offered in this law are known and verified in practice. With the number of amendments done, we tried to fix some solutions. Such is, for example, the intervention in Article 27, paragraphs 1 and 2, where it is proposed that persons referring to military service have the same term of six months. Although the solution for people coming from abroad, which you have suggested, can ultimately remain that way. Also, Article 28 suggests the special status of some categories of recruits, such as artists, scientific workers and athletes. This, gentlemen, was certainly interesting during the period when the military deadline lasted a year or more than a year. Now that the military deadline is only six months long, I believe that what has been taken from the previous law should be thrown out, because anyone, regardless of whether an artist, scientist or athlete, can provide in some plan of their own to be free for six months, if the military is serving in arms units, and otherwise most of these persons are determined to serve as civilians in some other institutions, and then that intervention is not necessary. We believe that a new position should be added in Article 33, that a military official who exercises the right to serve a military term without a weapon cannot, in a later period, exercise the right to own and carry a weapon, or be employed in institutions that involve this right, which is the subject of which the territorial authority provides a record of the MUP. We delivered this as an amendment and intervention to Article 33, and it should be considered because such solutions exist in some other countries. In some countries, there is a fact that those who opt to civil service can no longer be employed in state institutions, and we ask our amendment that they cannot be employed in institutions that mean that persons have to carry arms. Decisions on the implementation of work and material obligations are similar to those so far which are functional and verifiable in practice. As far as civil service law is concerned, this law regulates a problem which was regulated by different regulations in the past. The law regulated most of the issues related to this area. It's not good that they're in art. 8th and 9th predicts the formation of a new body, the Civil Service Centre, because it is only an increase in the administration, and so far experience suggests that these tasks were successfully executed by the territorial authorities of the Ministry of Defence. Also, all tasks of keeping records of reserve personnel can be maintained by the territorial authorities of the Ministry of Defence. The solution given in Article 17, which relates to the length of the civil service, I don't think it's good. Earlier in all regulations, civil service was said to last twice as long as the duration of military service. If the military service lasts for six months then it would mean that civil service should last for 12 months. This can also be concluded in Article 23, paragraph 6, where two days of civil service are scheduled to be counted as one day by the military to those persons who, after a certain time, opted to move from civil service to military service. And we put that through one of our amendments. In one of our amendments, we have complemented existing solutions that are applied in some other countries. That's what I was talking about when I was talking about the previous law. The essence of the proposal is that a military official who has exercised the right to object to a conscience, whether as a recruit or as a person in a reserve, was at civil service, cannot exercise the right to possess and carry arms, or be employed in institutions and institutions that involve this right. Reading this law on military obligation, I am thinking about what the real interest of the Republic of Serbia is, is it a military deadline and preparing young people for the defence of the country, and whether this should be encouraged and highlighted in different ways or whether it is a civil service that has in practice turned to its opposite. On the one hand, we have a shortage of soldiers in our units, so those who decide to serve a military deadline in uniform with weapons are double burdened because of it, and on the other hand, we have a whole company of young people serving civil service in Belgrade Philharmonic Philharmonic or Theatre, and their service of civil service comes down to register on the first day of the last day. Of course, one of the main problems is the control of civil service. This law did not adequately resolve it, although it is referred to in Articles 42 and 43, where it, let the obligation, once again, be given to the authority of this civil service centre. Since we propose that this centre does not exist in this law, but that all tasks are carried out by territorial authorities, then we should ultimately, and that control is being carried out by territorial authorities. When it comes to the law on the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, this law is worth a little more talking and a good think. This law changes so far the applicable law on the participation of professional members of the Serbia-Montenegro Army, civil protection personnel and staff in the bodies of the Council of Ministers' Board in peace operations and other activities abroad, "Official Journal SCG 61/04". I repeat, the Law on Peace Operations is being amended by the Law on Multinational Operations. "Multinational" and "Peaceful" are not synonyms, it creates a dilemma with me right now. What did they want: a legislator, the Ministry of Defence, and a proposaler, the Serbian Government? Why is the new law called "The Law on Multinational Operations"? Why is there no mention of the UN in it, as an international organisation under whose patronage almost all peace operations take place? The Secretary of Defense here in his performances, both on TV and in the press, spoke of peace operations. In Article 4(1) and (3) of the Defence Act, multinational operations are defined as follows: 'Multinational operations are activities undertaken under the collective security system and collective defence system, in accordance with international law and approved international contracts. ''This definition is a dilemma and raises questions – what system of collective security do we belong to and what system of collective defence? I'll tell you right away that such systems don't exist. If anyone mentions the UN organization to me, yes, I will say – that's fine, if this definition applies to the UN. But then I'll ask myself, how do you explain the aggression against the SRJ, Iraq and Afghanistan, which are the sovereign members of the UN organisation? However, I think the legislator here meant some other collective security systems, but we, gentlemen, don't belong to them, and as far as I know, the mood of most of our population or citizens of Serbia is such that they don't even want us to belong to such defence systems and collective security systems. I tried to find the term "multinational operations" in UN documents, international war and humanitarian law, The Hague and other conventions. There are no multinational operations there. If you find that somewhere else, except in NATO documents and their satellites, feel free to tell me. The SFRY had a long tradition of participation in peace operations. We'd do well to continue that tradition. Experience tells us that every peace operation was multinational. However, the opposite does not apply. Every multinational operation is not a peace operation, though it may be. And I think there's a rabbit in that bush when it comes to this law. There's a coward's egg that the billmaker wants to plant on the Serbian Parliament. Obviously, in some places, we already know which, lauded by cannon meat, so through this law, conditions are being prepared to send our soldiers into combat operations, to be occupiers, and to threaten the freedom of some other people, somewhere far away and for the expense of others, I know well whose interests. The defence minister, unfortunately, today Mr. Sutanovac is not here, in an interview with the "Time", number 978, as of 1 October 2009, says the law... (President: People's Parliament, the time at your disposal has been used. ) Can I use the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27171	No, you can't use the time of the parliamentary group because we're now in session when words are given by presidents, or authorized representatives. Thank you. (National Ambassador Bozidar Delic: Good. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz, and after that, the People's Messenger Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, don't worry, I'll be nice, I don't want to be hard on you, since I have the impression that you're a good friend with Mr. Miskovic, I'm taking care of these things. As for this set of laws we have, I will now make the views of the DSS Parliament Club. I'll go by law. As far as the Civil Service Bill is concerned, we don't have any major objections to this law. Generally observed, he's acceptable, we were only thinking about whether civil service should be tied to military service at all or defined as community service or something like that, but we know that it's already, somehow, standard in other countries, although it's not the same as being a soldier and it's not the same to take care of the sick and clean the streets of the city, etc. We have several amendments that we have submitted, and we will see that the proposaler will also be made to these amendments, so we will make a decision on how we will eventually vote. As for the draft law on military, labour and material obligations, there, too, we have no significant proposals, we believe that this bill is in principle and a step forward in relation to what has been in the Serbian Army so far, to surprise you, we have always been constructive within the DSS, the question is just how you act as executive authority and what you do, what terms you use and media manipulations, and what in public you place to people, because society is completely undemocratic, with complete control of all the media under your executive authority. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Serbian Army, everyone knows that we participated in the adoption of the law. We don't have any significant objections here either, but we have the same amendments, so we'll see until voting day, depending on our relationship to our amendments, as well as the Defense Act, he's in a similar situation as this one on amendments to the Army Act. Now we come to those two laws where we have the biggest objections and we certainly will not vote in the voting day, which are: the draft law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, as well as the proposal for a law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. As for the draft law on VBA and VOA, I can say that there is one thing that is interesting, which preceded the creation of OBD. In the federal parliament, the Working Group was created in 2001 and in that task force was the current President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, and then the then Counterintelligence Service was abolished by many responsibilities (at the time I was a republican MP, not a federal MP, but the successor was VBA). A new law was proposed, so changes were made afterwards, I say, Boris Tadic took part in those changes. Among other things, let's say that the director, the boss, whatever the chief of the service is then called, submits a report to the president of the state. It is interesting that this bill now returns to the VBA many of these powers, including reporting to the President of the Republic, whether because the President of the Republic was then Kostunica, and now Boris Tadic, not to submit a report to Kostunica, but to report to Boris Tadic, as if it mattered what name and last name it is, rather than the state-leading institution. There is a difference between you and us with regard to institutions, we know that later that service by The Hague tribunal has been apostrophe of the largest or biggest problem in relations with The Hague tribunal, at least Carla del Ponte has said countless times, which means that you as the majority government in four governments, since five, since 2000, have, in fact, been the cause of poor co-operation with The Hague tribunal and slow integration to the EU. To return to the law itself now, the jurisdiction of the VBA is defined by Articles 5 and 6 and as regards jurisdiction, the proposer has introduced provisions on general security matters, which create a dilemma with us whether the VBA is competent, in addition to counterintelligence, in the broad sense, for the general security services in the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Armed Forces in general or for part of the general security affairs referred to in Article 6(1), i.e. the general security affairs are defined as the jurisdiction of the VBA in Article 5, and there is a lot of uncertainty there, but because of the nature of these jobs, it really cannot be achieved effectively. The bill states that the VBA controls, among other things, security protection of forces, facilities and resources, security measures,vralisation of tasks, jobs and activities, application of the protection measures of data secrecy, and secondly, issue security certificates. Such tasks characterise the VBA as a supervisor at the Ministry of Defence, but in the Serbian Army, which it is not and should not be. Traditional general security affairs, such as integration of security measures and day-to-day management and command, control of the orderly security regime and security education of members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, assessment of the security quality of the completion of certain formations and duties, physical, technical and fire protection of buildings, systems and resources of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, and others cannot be realised by the involvement of entities outside the organisation structure of units and institutions of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. Therefore, we believe that the VBA should be competent, first of all, for counterintelligence tasks, and general security tasks to carry out the competent service of the General Staff, integrated within the unit and institution command. General Security is one of the basic functions of command. It was never a disputed agreement of all the factors in the defence system that for the security of the unit is the most responsible commander of the unit. As a result, it is not rational for the legal provisions to limit the possibilities for the implementation of tasks, so the adoption of these laws and the opportunity for VBA to decontaminate itself from general security affairs, it seems to me that this has been missed, as the VBA has, in its time, freed itself from reconnaissance and electronic reconnaissance operations as typical functions of unit commands and military institutions. Also, the demarcation of jurisdiction between the VBA and the military police will focus those services on concrete operational co-operation rather than the very harmful relationship of rivalry that is present. On the over-authorization of the VBA may also be associated with a provision in Article 9 which obliges the national authorities, organisations, offices to listen well to the authorised member of the VBA,'registration of registers, databases, electronic databases' and others. At first glance, from this authority, the VBA must be excluded, at least like this, the first thing that came to mind, the National Assembly, the Government. Imagine, now, a member of the National Assembly is entering the VBA, not even the director, and now he's asking to enter the registers, this and that, meaning, must be an exception to the National Assembly, the Government, the Office of the President of the Republic, the BIA, and there are probably more institutions that can be placed on that list. With regard to the formulations, it must be more precise, which can be achieved by relying on the Law on the Protection of Classified Information or on a formulation that would be introduced – the authorities of the State Administration. Also, the individual provisions contained in this bill, which certainly have their place in the methodology of modern service work, have in the past been a cause for numerous abuses. This primarily refers to the purchase of documents and objects, the concealment of identity and property and the establishment of legal entities. As regards the purchase of documents and objects, the current form of the organisation and control of the network can be successfully controlled by financial authorities, bodies managed and internal control, but in the case of a hidden identity of the property as well as the establishment of a legal person, there must be prior consent, a solution or a command of the defence minister or a person authorised by it. A covert identity in practice means a fake ID card, a fake passport, a fake official and other ID, an MP's fake ID, a covert property property means a fake traffic permit, a fake burden certificate, etc. The proposed methodological procedures are necessary for the work of the Military Intelligence Agency and the VBA, but their application must be exceptional and strictly controlled at a high level of management, which so far has not been the case, especially as regards the VBA, everyone knows that it was the Agency with the least control in the country. We also believe that the VOA should be a clean intelligence service, that it is not designed for counterintelligence and security tasks, nor is it equipped with operational and technical means and systems, and its personnel are not educated or should at least not be educated for complex counterintelligence procedures. The results of their work should be delivered by the two agencies to the defence minister and users in Serbia, in accordance with their responsibilities, and the report on the work of the defence minister on all the contents of the defence ministry's reporting, as well as to the National Assembly's competent committee, the President of the Supreme Court, the General Inspector, who is being introduced here, etc. Emphasised proponents, which differ from the principles pursued by modern democratic society, refer to the closure of these two agencies as modern social systems and recorded concentration, centralisation of information functions. The five-year term of office of the Director of the Agency and its deputies and the Inspector-General, the equal status of the Director and his deputy, as well as their protection against possible resolution, most vividly illustrate the tendency of the closure of these two agencies as social systems. We believe that in these agencies, decentralisation is also necessary, which does not have this bill either. They have really relatively broad powers that are envisaged, for example, by the inspector general, and that is not a bad solution that is being introduced, however, we believe that there are shortcomings in this solution. For example, here is a list of what he needs to monitor, but nowhere is he able to suggest, to inform about what he's found in his supervision in the work of these two agencies, so there's no authority for him to propose measures or sanctions for those to whom his supervision was concerned, which in our opinion absolutely should exist. Let's just say, the Chief Inspector in the Police has such powers, in one good law on the police we've brought, if Mr. Sutanovac has already said that Mr. Dragan Jocic is the best of all of us from the DSS, then he could learn from the best of things when this was done. The biggest problem is Article 23. We've given the amendment here, and this tells what the intensity of this law is. In the first position, where it is said that the authorised official of the VBA has powers in detecting, investigating and documenting the criminal acts referred to in Article 6(2), points 3 and 4) and Article 6 of Article 3 of this Act, it shall be listed which and, be careful, as stated in point 9 of this Article – ''the powers of the police to monitor and record telephone and other conversations or communication by other technical means and optical recording of the person and taking other measures and actions, in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings. 'In other words, the authorised person of the VBA has the right to arrest, because if it is said that 'the taking of other measures and actions, in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings,' that means it! It simply can't if we talk about modern services, civilised services, if we talk about the EU, it can't! She can only seek the assistance of the military police or the police! Can't have a VBA officer arrested! That, read it one more time, it says here. As far as this law on multinational operations outside the Republic of Serbia is concerned, we absolutely do not believe in all this, both this annual plan and how it will be adopted. We're against doing it the way it was done last time. I repeat, I have repeatedly said, we are not against members of the Republika Srpska Army participating in peacekeeping operations, but first, they must be peace operations organised by the UN, second, not to be peace operations, not even those that truly send the UN, such as ISAF to Afghanistan, where all is entrusted to the NATO Pact. Why not NATO pact? Regardless of the Partnership for Peace, how many times we say, since February of last year, since the United States has recognised Kosovo's unfairly declared independence, we cannot co-operate with the NATO Pact in such a way and as they help create an independent state of Kosovo every day, while they train the security forces of Kosovo, we must not participate in such operations that serve only for the interest of Washington, NATO duck, such as ISAF. What do we care?- I'm sorry. The Taliban, there, chooses their people. They're chosen. If they want to create an Islamic republic or an Islamic state, what do we care? Then why do we have a relationship with the Vatican? And where has it been proven to have relations with terrorists, where is Bin Laden? Why should we participate in such things? We had that problem last time with a mission in Chad. We didn't mind participating in it, but we were opposed to participating in the contingent of the NATO Pact Member State. And we'll always be against it. That requires consensus, which is why you didn't understand, because one of the more important issues is military neutrality. It's not true, we heard here, in the previous debate, many delusions, whether it's cheaper for the state to be a member of the NATO Pact or military neutral. Well, I see, the economic downturn of the military neutral states in Europe, should I count them? Sweden, Finland, Ireland, Switzerland, Austria, Malta, Cyprus. Which one of them went down economically? Which one of them isn't more economically powerful than us? Which one of these states don't citizens live better? So, there is, if it wants to be done seriously, the state can be a military neutral member of the EU and have good relations with everyone, co-operate with everyone through the Partnership for Peace, but also through other projects and at all. Ireland is an island, literally an island. On the one hand, it is surrounded by the Atlantic and the United States, on the other hand by Great Britain, France, all NATO pact members. What does that have to do with us being an island surrounded by members of the NATO Pact? It doesn't matter. Those are your arguments that don't stand. And, if you want, call a referendum and let's convince ourselves at the referendum and talk about these arguments to the citizens. Don't try, on a small door, as well as this bill, to participate in NATO missions that are completely unnecessary. In question day, I will ask the Prime Minister officially to answer me, do our intelligence services have information that in Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian Autonomous province, the United States is planning to set up a missile shield and not only there, but also in Kopalnik, to use our radar system, which is one of the most modern in this part of Europe? Maybe they'll make it a little more up-to-date, but it's known, with a little investment, much less than what they were planning to do in the Czech Republic. If that's what they're planning, our security will be in danger, because we will immediately be the target of all those who oppose the behavior of the United States in the Islamic world above all, and those serious terrorists, not these Wahhabis that we've been chasing, down there, after Sandzak. These are serious questions for Serbia. The installation refinery is planned to build in Smedereva for only $200 million. They didn't get any permits by now. There are three such in Afghanistan, only to provide NATO's pact needs in Kosovo. Are we going to be such a country? That is why consensus is needed and answers are needed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27173	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27174	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable People's MPs, I've always had the pleasure of speaking after Mr. Shormaz's last days. I think his discussion is quite fine and there are some arguments, but there is always a question of what the alternative is. I think, looking at things so black and white, maybe we could accept some part of that discussion. I'm going to remind you all that today is our time, and this strategy, that it was cut off when we entered the Partnership for Peace in 2006. We all know that even the DS was not even part of the government of the Republic of Serbia at the time, that it was then a minority government supported by the SPS. So that's when a strategic decision was made, because we all know if we want to talk about it, that then the decision to join the Partnership for Peace was the point when you practically demonstrate the clear will of what your ultimate goal is. That was 2006. We all know that in 2006 we all knew what would happen to Kosovo, it was only a matter of what strategy would be applied: whether to succeed in obtaining most of the Security Council, so that Kosovo's independence would be declared, since Russia and China's opposition did not win the majority, a second strategy was obtained. Also, we all knew, Mr. Shormaz, in 2006, that they would declare independence and we all knew that America would be one of the first states, if not the first, to recognise that independence. So with all this knowledge, I firmly claim that we all knew, we made a decision to join the Partnership for Peace and then we entered the Partnership for Peace, too, at a small door pushed by the United States. We can't say within two or three years that we didn't know any facts or arguments when we were making decisions, believing then, I believe that it was a good decision and I am convinced that immediately after 2000 we entered the Partnership for Peace and NATO, that if we were to talk about a better solution to Kosovo's status, we would certainly have. You know better than I do that the conditions for joining NATO were much less controversial than they were today and were primarily political, not technical or military. I think it's a good law to use the Serbian Army in multinational operations. It's good that you support it, and it's good to regulate it legally. Indeed, some countries regulate it by making a decision, without the participation of the assembly, but I think Serbia is such a country where indeed Parliament must have the final word when we make such a decision regarding such operations. I believe that we will also respect everything that is written in this law, that we will have the opportunity to adopt these annual plans, that there will be fewer emergency situations where this engagement will be carried out outside of the annual plans, but in any case we have the Assembly, we have the Security Committee, we have the public, the media, and everyone will be involved in the decision-making process. I think it's a good thing we have the law. Indeed, he is good, and he clearly regulates all points and members in the way that we can make such a decision. That's how we reopen one foreign policy capacity. I wouldn't look back on that particular story of yours about Afghanistan right now, and whether we should be there or not, probably shouldn't. You know, but when you're part of a common society and organization, it's all benefits and disadvantages. If you help your partner in one field of military service, you can expect back-up political and economic support. That's how the world works. Ireland may survive as an island, but Serbia cannot. That's my deep confidence, so we're going to vote for this law. As for these less controversial laws, which are defenses, civil service, I think almost everyone will support it. There are some misunderstandings that have been removed. As far as civil service is concerned, I suppose the idea that this area should be settled and, of course, we all support it and that it will remain as a possibility for anyone who wishes to serve the military term. However, we need to have clear rules, because we ourselves have witnessed many cases where this civil service of the military has been transformed into a farce, that it practically made no sense, so either it will exist and then it will have meaning or absolutely will not exist, but we will support that law. What's most attractive is probably the question about the VBA and the VOO. I guess in some future period, we'll be changing that law again. What's good is that we've made a step forward to finally opening these institutions up for control. Who will be the Inspector General, how the man will do this job, to whom he will be responsible – these are all questions for discussion and for reasoned analysis, but it is good that the process has begun. I don't think we can expect any institutions to give fantastic results at first, but by setting up the Inspector-General on notice in 2009, they will certainly deliver results. In five or six years, the institution will have its own weight, credibility and become an organ that will seriously be able to control the work of these intelligence agencies, just as it will play its part in Internal Affairs. However, and that is why I would like to say that we MPs must continue to retain, and that we are looking for, a significant role of the Security Committee in the control of intelligence agencies and military agencies, of course, because the Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament is always, regardless of who is in power and who is in opposition, a multi-party committee that can properly exercise civilian control over these agencies. We've had two tours this year, I haven't had the opportunity and the pleasure to participate in those agencies, I don't believe it helped anything. However, in some ways we opened the door and showed that these things were not impossible to control. I, as a member of the Security Committee, will really try to get that committee to take its place and role in the control of these intelligence institutions. We believe that we will have the support of all other parliamentary parties here. So, we support these laws as undeniable reform laws, as a good start and as an opportunity for this control process to be established and to begin to establish greater transparency of the work of these institutions, because we have paid a politically high price when we talk about The Hague tribunal. They kept handing over reports to us officially or unofficially -- that they were institutions that prevent the completion of co-operation, that there was obstruction. Not to go back to the past, you remember that these institutions played a role after 2000 in the then conflicts between different leaders and parties. I mean, really, this is a good start. We will therefore support the law through the work of the Assembly and through the work of the Security Committee we will monitor how much progress has been made. Of course, with your support and cooperation, we will propose any changes that are necessary to improve this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27175	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27176	I've been mentioned several times and misread. For example, I didn't say that we support this law on the participation of our soldiers and on multinational operations, whatever you call them. On the contrary, I said, "We don't vote." We support as DSS participation in peace operations, according to the Constitution, so that in Parliament we vote for it, although I agree with what Mr Delic said. So, according to the Constitution, we will be keeping an eye on any and any operations, and certainly not within the framework of the NATO Pact contingent or any of the NATO Pact member states. And I said what are the reasons? To appeal to 2006 and the Partnership for Peace, well, it's not a disputed decision, it's absolutely not controversial, but your reason is illogical. What is Russia's ultimate goal? Is Russia's ultimate goal of membership in the NATO Pact? She is also a member of the Partnership for Peace. Is that Russia's ultimate goal? And why our entry into the Partnership for Peace programme in 2006 would mean the ultimate goal of entering the NATO Pact. That's not true, it's a partnership relationship and co-operation with the NATO Pact. We don't say it shouldn't be, though it shouldn't exist. I'm saying my own opinion now. It's the only military alliance in the world. I think the world would be happier if there was no military alliance, but that international law was respected and that there was no single military alliance. It's impossible, it's obvious that a certain state wants to be a police officer and to wonder about everyone in the world. And when I appeal to international law, that is what we used to count on. Maybe you knew in 2006 what they were going to do in 2008. I'm not arguing that you might not know that. We're not that! We trusted in international law. We had organized negotiations, first with Ahtisaari – they were seen to be set up. With the 'three' - it was only a buy of time, but we did everything we could then as a state, as far as I know together in cohabitation, the President of the Republic and the Government, to do in those negotiations what is international law. The thugs didn't want that! They did the opposite. It's the only possible and normal word. What do we have to deal with now?- I'm sorry. Also, one of the great delusions is – if we enter the NATO Pact, I heard it yesterday from one of our colleagues, that it will be easier to return to Kosovo. Son of a bitch! One of the first conditions will be to recognise Kosovo's independence, even if we are invited to enter the NATO Pact. So it will be one of the first conditions, and it will come as a condition, if this is not enough for you about visa liberalisation, and for EU accession. Then we'll see if Europe has no alternative?- I'm sorry. At the same time, we will never recognise Kosovo and we will not enter the EU if that is a condition! It's a policy that you support and that's what they say. So, in Afghanistan, and that's a sad thing to say, and that's what I'm gonna end up with... Three minutes. Here, just one sentence and I'll finish it. If we participate with the Army in the NATO Pact, as a member of the NATO Pact, for example, in Afghanistan – it is not good, but on the other hand we will have economic benefits. What, then, is the Serbian Army - a mercenaries' army?- I'm sorry. You can't have that kind of relationship. We're sending our soldiers to die in Afghanistan, and this is where we're going to charge the Americans for Serbia's budget -- that's not serious!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27177	The right to a replica has an MP named Vlajko Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27178	Whatever you're saying, I'm not going to say that it's irresponsible and irresponsible and I respect all your arguments, but that's exactly where two concepts conflict. What happened in 2008, it happened, I'm telling you, we all knew it in 2006, but it doesn't matter. Maybe now someone forgot they knew. I want to say what our alternative is. If independence has been declared in 2008, does this plan of yours and yours, what do we do, do we get more countries to help us bring back Kosovo and Metohija? Do you have a plan to intervene militaryly to return Kosovo and Metohija to Serbia? What is the military alliance outside NATO that Serbia needs or can join to eventually achieve its interests? Here I am only talking about achieving Serbia's interest through participation, for example, in these multinational operations. You know well that this independence of Kosovo is not because of Kostunica or Djindjic or I don't know who, it's a process that lasted 30 or 40 years and it came to an end in 2008 when they did it. What can we do? Wait for the next 50 years to work international law? The international law obviously did not work there, as it did not work on the Abkhazia case, where Russia violated international law when it was in their interest. Large forces can trample international law when they call for international law when it is in their interest. What can Serbia do? Do you have any plans? All right, if you have a plan, I'll back it up. But I don't see that we can fix our status without cooperating with those who, as you say, have violated international law. I am sorry that we are the victim of a violation of international law and I am sorry that we were not those partners who may have violated international law along with them. And, right to tell you, in Serbia's interest, I would rather agree to be a partner to someone and to violate international law than to defend international law like this, and as a result, we have lost Kosovo, we have Serbia's isolation and we have no perspective. That's the result of 30 or 40 years of process. They can't wait five decades for someone in the world to remember and see if they apply or don't apply international law. After all, we have tried through our diplomatic action (as I embrace that international right) and we will try again to use the Institute of International Law. I'm not much of an optimist, but we tried. It's one thing, and real life is another. That's why we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27179	Right on line, MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27180	We won't do anything personal, I don't want to be sorry. I'm not going to be sorry. The fight has to continue. Of course we have a strategy, of course we have a plan, it's all done, it's all abandoned, and that's why the election was called last year. If we had a consensus, as we don't, and you're talking about what we're going to do here, and you're going to vote for a national security strategy that says what one measure is, I've read to you two or three times in these two days, and what is the right of the state of Serbia. Now don't like my colleagues from the DS to tell you, ask the gentlemen in uniform to explain to you what it says in the Strategy. That's not what we wrote. That's what you brought to the assembly and you'll vote for it. There's nothing to talk about whether we're sorry or not. International law is still in force and we have to fight for it. We said that you should sue the states that have confessed, you decided to seek the court's opinion. There, that's the difference. If someone's saying what we'd do, we're talking. What it means to run and then the foreign minister's statement, around this time, puts pressure on another 30 new states to recognise Kosovo's independence. Do you have information, Minister, what kind of public statement is that? Do you know what our foreign minister would do? Our foreign minister would say -- 30 countries are being pressured by the Washington administration, as the foreign minister knows that Washington is pressing. It's a responsible attitude towards the people. It's a responsible attitude towards the citizens. How long, the deception? How long have you been distracting me? How long do you think you're gonna do things by marketing?- I'm sorry. You invent various conflicts, the Mages, which Mr. Velimir Ilic is talking about, and the people – hundreds of thousands fired, none of the actions you promised. When we talk about strategies, well, we took part in the adoption of this law, we are proud of it, excellent, fair law, devised by the actions of Mladjan Dinkic and the promises of a thousand euros per share. We never said that as executive authority. We've never promised people that, but we've given them the opportunity to make a fair distribution. That's the way it works. We think that's how it's done. It should be made clear that if Washington is the one who is putting pressure on 30 states right now, and that's what the foreign minister said, let's say, Bangladesh, which I don't know if we have any currency exchanges in economic relations, and he said it's being pressured, if that's what happens here, why don't we say that? If that's what Washington is doing, and that's the backbone of the NATO Pact, what are we doing here? We say again, "No, not to membership, not to say, "not to cooperate." Don't keep mixing those two terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27181	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups coming forward after they have not been reported in the electronic system? No, I don't. I remind the MPs that, in that case, we are moving to a debate in principle, and on the application for a word. I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, application for a word, in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: LDP, SPS-JS, NS, ZES, DSS, Forward Serbia and the SRS. The first reported in the order of the application of the MPs is MP Sasa Dujovic, followed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27182	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable government representatives, respected ministers, a set of proposed laws from this area aims to advance and regulate an area related to Serbia's Army, the defence of the Republic of Serbia, military, labour and material obligations, civil service and the use of Serbia's Army in multinational operations outside the Republic of Serbia. After wars waged on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, the area remained extremely unsettled or with legal solutions, least of all, in an attempt. After the proposed laws have been passed, we believe that, above all, the members of the Serbian Army and also the armed forces will be relieved of the task they have ahead of them, which is primarily the protection of citizens, property, in short, the protection of the statehood of the Republic of Serbia throughout their constitutionally defined territory. Throughout the history of the bright tradition created by the Serbian army, it is an obligation for all of us to do everything today to enable the professionalisation of the Serbian Army, and to protect, above all, the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. In general, the proposal for a law on defence is well-prepared. It is especially commendable for the part that envisions co-operation with the NGO sector in order to implement projects that are affirming and aimed at improving Serbia's defence readyness of Serbia's armed forces. After the war conflicts that took place on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, as a consequence, we have a large number of war veterans gathered in various organisations, which can be a quality partner to state institutions in implementing the Law on Defence of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for a law on the Serbian Army has sparked a major controversy in the public, especially among military pensioners and social health insurance for military insurance. Contradictoral statements in the public have created a picture to reduce the rights acquired in these users and place them in an unequal position. The problem is complex and comprehensive, but it wouldn't be so big if it weren't for living people, their social security, their health and their existence. It is the fate of hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens whose rights in the area of the social rights of military insurance workers, to a greater or lesser extent, have been questioned. Another serious question is raised, and this is how the proposal defines a solution to military pensions. I think it is necessary to think about how to coordinate them, because the solution offered is not good, military pensions in my opinion should monitor salary growth in the military and that would be extremely natural. The draft law on military, labour and material obligations has been well done. They fully regulate the matter in question and give the state a free hand to use human and material resources to defend the country. With the sake of this bill's proposal, it will remain unclear what professionalisation of the military and other armed forces and security is, if the defence is general law and obligations, if all Serbian citizens are subject to the general military obligation. I believe that the proposer predicted through sublegal acts the protection of citizens against the possible abuse of these rights, which can otherwise be widely seen and applied. The draft civil service law, in addition to the politely regulated legislation it regulates and the dilemma of whether this issue could have been part of the Law on Defence, not of a special law. The bill on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside Serbia detailed the way the armed forces take part outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary to take care of how to decide to send members of the armed forces into the mission, primarily peace and humanitarian. Because the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia are more factors, and the Serbian Constitution obliges to make assembly decisions to send only one of the factors, which is the Serbian Army. At the end of everything, I stress that the legal proposals that are subject to discussion and debate at this point are acceptable to the movement of veterans. The SPS-JS parliamentary club will vote on those proposals in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27183	Dear People's MPs, this is what we end up doing in the morning part of the session. I set a break and continue our work at 15.00 hours in a order of MPs. According to applications for the word first in line, in the afternoon part there is a National MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, and after that, MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27184	The word has been made by the People's MP, Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27185	It's only the second day of the regular autumn session. There are almost no members of the ruling party in the assembly, as in the song "The list is yellow, but by the trees, it is already down". I like this "fall" thing the most. "Yellow" is a car, despite the entire media censorship in the office of former defence minister, where as a dragster, the marketing team "Idola" is working, so there's no "k" of "Kurira", there's a mess in NIN because of stories of anti-racet shields, and on TVs that we once released are constantly the same lobbyists, according to the "sarm" principle -- order of gays, order of NATO, and everything is over-stamped "yellow". I would also understand the MPs of the ruling majority, to participate in the set of these military and security laws by replacing the roasting of peppers, by peeling the same and making the winter. I would also understand their male colleagues, who must consider the details of the negotiations with today's special foreign guest, Eulex. When they already co-operate to recognise Kosovo's so-called independence, then, people, they must at least materialise that co-operation. I would understand all of this if it weren't for paid folk representatives, who, if they weren't already interested in national and state-of-the-art issues, could at least act serious and give meaning to such an important issue, through the elemental presence of the body, if their spirit were already 'vulnerable'. Now, the Minister of Defence is on the Cave, and as far as I can see, there is no Minister of Trade and Services, interestingly enough, it can be expected that the president of that "yellow" party is somewhere again on a Karpathic tour; he is visiting the castles of Count Dracula, because whenever something gets thick, he is there. Certainly, unfortunately, the competent minister of general practice is not there, so I cannot ask some questions that would belong to his portfolio, which is, for example, what happens to this debt of Iraq, which owes us more than a billion and 200 million dollars? But, well, about that then, when there's a trade and services, it's likely that Minister Shunatovac will show up, and then I'll ask him that question. Even now, it is no longer a question of what Serbia is trading -- the southern province, in an announcement by the northern province, and then, as NATO says. One principled man who consistently led a state-run policy, the result of which you, gentlemen and ladies, from the "semaphora coalition" called, returned his mandate to the people because he did not agree to be a merchant and did not agree to be a servant. Therefore, he also has the moral right to make a new deal with the people in the elections that are, however, the only way out for Serbia. He remembers the people these months and Vojislav Kostunica and Velimir Ilic. Remember, then, when on our coat of arms, the party's practically coat of arms instead of the famous four "S", there are four "O"s: the bereaved, the deceived, the devastated and the impoverished Serbia. Of course, the "dragstor marketing" of the former defence minister responded immediately, so he put security, military, defence, etc. on the agenda of the First Regular Session. However, according to the old principle that exists only in the Serbian Parliament and in commercials for "no coffee – three in one", in our case "six in one", which is, of course, better than "fifteen in one", which was agriculture. The same ones who made the first NATO state on Europe's territory with the capital Bonstille, which is soon to receive the shield, aim at revising the Dayton Agreement and breaking Republika Srpska. The work of course is "Biden's Eight"; the meeting in Butmir should lead to a change in the BiH Constitution, which would allow NATO to enter. In a situation where the government of Republika Srpska intends to call a referendum on joining NATO, any country that has a serious security strategy and the goal of achieving national interests, not only to support a referendum on NATO in Republika Srpska, would also call it here in Serbia. With us, however, "yellow" continues to break Serbia, negotiating "NATO slap" behind the back of its own people. You know what, maybe I'm a blonde, maybe women shouldn't get involved in military security issues, but they're extremely seductive failures both on the form plan and on the content plan in a series of these laws. Regularly leaving out the term NATO aggression, and in a formal and termological sense, direct translations of American terms are being introduced. Every student knows that cheating has to be quick, so they always steal the slips. But if the failure, for example, is the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside Serbia's borders, it is neither unconscious nor random. After all, NATO aggression on our country is a good example of such a multinational operation. In Article 2 of this Law on the use of the Army in multinational operations, it is said that it is about operations to preserve, maintain and build peace in the world, i.e. establishing peace. Building peace in the world is not defined properly, but according to the American model. The American model by definition means that the term "war" is no longer used, but "to fight for peace". The war conflict is the "intervention of peace". "Merciful Angel" we have already experienced, and about the humanitarian character of these multinational operations, gentlemen, speak to the parents of Milice Rakic, who unfortunately became the summation name of all our victims of aggression, which in your opinion did not happen, but was merely an intervention with colleteral damages. Try that rhetoric in front of the Institute of Oncology, where you have both direct and delayed victims, or as you already accept to call it, collateral damage to ammunition facts with impoverished uranium. You know, Serbia should only participate in peacekeeping missions to preserve peace with its mandate in the UN, and by decision of this assembly. I must note that, in addition to the absence of MPs of the ruling majority, those few who are present, they spoke of Serbia's military neutrality with detestation, the expression of narcissistic contempt. You know, the resolution on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia was brought by the National Assembly, the Supreme Legislative Body, on 26 December 2007. I am very sorry that you must apologize to the foreign mentors and those you are negotiating with, how to complete this protocol on co-operation and complicity in recognising the so-called independent state of Kosovo, but this resolution is an expression of the will of the people and of this National Assembly. Especially her point six, which I'm going to remind you of right in the context of discussions on so-called multinational operations. Due to the NATO's overall role in the pact since Serbia's illegal bombing in 1999, without a Security Council decision, to Annex 11, rejected Ahtisaari's plan, whether you "yellow" really rejected it, which states that NATO is the final authority in independent Kosovo, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is making a decision to declare the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the existing military alliances, to the possible calling of a referendum, which would lead to a final decision on the issue. When it comes to military neutrality and the objectives of foreign policy strategy and security, if we are an EU strategic partner, why is our country being kidnapped by legal violence part of the territory? If we are a strategic partner of the United States, why do they appear daily as a mentor of the so-called independent state of Kosovo? And, now, before President Medvedev's visit to Serbia, the question again for you, gentlemen, who are at the top of this party state, can Serbia really convince Russia of a genuine strategic partnership, without consent in the area of human freedom? With regard to national organisations, Serbia is acting quite the opposite with regard to Russia. While in Moscow and Russia, "the parades of shame" have been banned for the next hundred years, they are headed for the Serbian Palace. As the work of national organisations is encouraged in Russia, Serbia is banned. While Russia bans the work of an intergovernmental NGO that destroys society internally, lowers traditional religious and national values, the sector is financed from budgets and media propaganda in Serbia. In Serbia, no national organisation, counting and traditional associations, such as the BiH Association of Serbs, which deals with publishing, educational publishing work, receives a single dinar of state aid, while all other non-governmental sectors receive fourm euros a year. And finally, whether in Russia an attack on the Russian Orthodox Church is permitted, to the extent permitted in Serbia, where the closure and condemnation of church dignitaries who disagree with the parade of "Sodom and Gomorrah" is required, where the person of His Holiness of Patriarch Paul is mocked and caricated. The question may have gone a little wide, but it is a matter of national security, a matter of national interest. As for this copying school and the American model, can you explain to me, gentlemen, why in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Army Law, the term "student" is replaced by the term "student". (President: Time. Bring the end, please. I'm done. If you tell me that there are cadets in the Russian army, I'll tell you -- no, in Serbian military tradition there's a good Serbian word called "pitomac" and as far as I know, since the founding of our academy, with these war breaks, since 1837, there's always been the word "pitomac". Leave the cadets at the West Point. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27186	Thank you. Let me let you know that we'll be working after 6:00 today. In our assessment, it will be quite a short time, 30-40 minutes, and by the end of the agenda, in accordance with Article 85(2). Rules of Procedure. We also made sure that TV broadcasts run for about half an hour. If we do more than that, it'll be on a delayed transmission. Mr. Ratkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27187	Madam President, Mr Minister, the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, are certainly to be set up in front of the Republic of Serbia, and thus this high house, an imperative that we must resolve at this meeting, and this imperative means the beginning of a normative framework for certain areas, areas of defence and the military, and at the same time the process of completing the reforms and above all the professionalisation of the Army of Serbia. The set of laws that lies ahead of us represents not only a normative and formal legal framework that provides legal solutions for more effective implementation of Serbia's military missions and tasks, but also has its own international and diplomatic dimension, which implies the involvement of professional military personnel and the involvement of our defence capacities in regional and international initiatives. I would like to say that the quality of the proposed documents stems from the fact that the transparency in drawing up these documents was like never before in this sector, so all the interested entities in society, I don't only think about military faces, I mean both current and future recruits, their parents, all those directly or indirectly related to the defence system, was more than expressed. Thus, this transparency allowed for quality solutions to be reached, the Constitution prescribed principles through these laws and concreteised. The proposed law on military, labour and material obligations and civil service law ensures effective functioning of military, labour and material obligations. I would particularly like to emphasise the Institute of Civil Service, or the regulation of civil service, done in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the standards of developed European countries. Also, the Institute of Obstruction of Consciousness is consistently and literally elaborated. It is also, if we take the comparative experiences of some countries, perhaps even more advanced than some Western democracy countries. The Civil Service Act, which we also have in the context of reviewing this set of laws, provides for the achievement of complaints to the recruit and member of the reserve. I will remind the civilian service, according to the proposed solutions, is executed from nineteen to twenty-seven years of life, in exceptional cases until the thirties. The determination of civil services and the reference to civil service are carried out in co-operation with the competent republican authorities, as well as with local self-government authorities. The rights and obligations of persons in civil service and the institution in which the civil service is carried out and the training of persons in civil service for civil protection matters are established. These are functional solutions, but they are also democratic solutions that allow the transparency of these laws and greater participation and control of civil structures. What has particularly drawn attention to both professional and wider public, certainly this law on the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind you that the Serbian Army mission is not consumed and is not only implemented in terms of defending the country and providing protection to the population in security risks, it is also provided in the participation of our Army in multinational operations, whether regional or wider importance and character. These operations are not only of multinational importance, they are also of multidisciplinary importance and include not only members of the Serbian Army, they include members of the composition of the Serbian Republic's MUP and other bodies. A whole set of these laws goes one way that is defined in our strategic definition of European integration, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is a normative framework for the creation of a professional, efficient and cheaper army, which is also more important in terms of the engagement of material and human resources. A particular aspect that we must not bypass is the civilian and democratic control of military institutions we have not yet had. So with full right and I can say that these laws are not only of systemic character, they represent, in a certain sense, a revolutionary step in the normative regulation of this area. The law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency has caused a lot of controversy in the public. I must remind myself that, in the public debates, before the draft of this law was drawn up and before the proposals were sent to this house, civil sector representatives, citizens' associations, all those interested entities were involved. We simply need to stress that this aspect, on the one hand, must be demystified. VOA and VBA must be clearly placed in institutional frameworks and this law does just that. So, he decidently and strictly prescribes the powers of Voa and VBA. Their activities are primarily preventive, aimed at preventing risk and security threats and in one extremely high quality way this law balances and balance, on the one hand, between the need for functional military intelligence and military security services and, on the other hand, protection of the human rights corps. I think this last thing I said should be analyzed specifically. In any event, a citizen who considers that his right has been violated by individual procedures or by the operation of the service shall in any event have the right to engage in mechanisms for judicial and other protection. I am pleased that representatives of individual opposition parties are also announcing support for certain legal solutions, not all of them, but certain laws that are in front of us today. I would like to invite all MPs to vote in favour of these laws, as I called for yesterday two strategic documents, the National Security Strategy and the RS Defence Strategy. These are the documents deprived of politics. These are important strategic documents, and a set of defence laws in any case ensures that Serbia becomes a leader in this part of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27188	Thank you, Mr. Ratkovic. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27189	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all allow me two dipressions. First of all, I don't think it's a good idea that out of six very important laws, everyone is under the Defense Department's authority, we're discussing it in a package. The laws of this domain are not passed every day. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. I think we should have tried as Parliament to discuss these laws individually. It wouldn't mean excessive waste of time. On the contrary, I take it from what Mr. Ratkovic just said, in the interest of all of us in this assembly, that we should pass as high-quality laws in this area as possible. Secondly, with respect to the present minister, I think the defence minister should still be sitting here. I don't mean to be malice, but it's weird that the Minister of Trade and Service is sitting in place of the Secretary of Defense. It calls for some unusual association. Of course, I won't talk about all the laws. This is not even possible in any overexposure. I'll talk about the worst law. It's undoubtedly this law on VBA and VOA. I read it carefully and I have, I must say, very dreary impressions of that law. I kind of feel like that law only has two members, when I read it correctly. The first member would say that these agencies do not fall under any law and other member when it comes into force. In fact, this law in the works that describe jobs, modes of work, and so on of these agencies has been written chaoticly, so I think and I'm afraid it's deliberately written chaotic, where it's mixed and important and irrelevant jobs, where irrelevant jobs are displayed as important and important jobs being displayed as irrelevant. I just don't think it's possible to fix it. I will especially look back at the parts for which this congregation should be responsible by logic, which is the control of all security services, including these. The National Assembly, those two words – the National Assembly is mentioned only in two places in the law. It is mentioned in Article 52, which reads: "The National Assembly is overseeing the work of the VBA and the VOA, in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the basics of the security arrangements of the Republic of Serbia and of this law. ''In this law there is nothing about the National Assembly, except once a year, the Inspector General reports to the competent authority—the National Assembly is no more. Furthermore, the post of Inspector General is being introduced. It's very good as an idea. Be careful what conditions he must meet – he must work for nine years in that ministry. You expect someone who has been in the service for nine years, not since yesterday but nine years, therefore, an integral part of that service, with respect for the character of that service, for which we all know what it must be, to be the Inspector General of that same service. How do you think he can do that? Furthermore, the same Chief Inspector, said in Article 54, is responsible for the work of the defence minister. Then what does the Chief Inspector want with him? The Secretary of Defense himself is responsible for the work of all the services of this domain, including these. For his work, the Inspector General would have to be responsible to the Assembly. At least five members are missing here to describe in detail how the Assembly needs to exercise civil control of these services. Gentlemen, you're making service as it may have been in 1946, but I remind you it's now 2009. We're full of Europe's mouth. This law has no 'e' from Europe. I'm not in favour of that, or rather, I'm in favour of having very good services, they're very important services for every country, even for ours, but first they have to be precisely defined, to know exactly what they can and can't do, from this law that doesn't follow. Then there are levers as they are controlled, but not by someone who has been a member of the ministry for nine years to control the ministry. That's impossible. I'm sorry, that's impossible! This can be done by being responsible to the congregation, and there will be some mechanisms in addition to that, that the congregation will exercise civilian control over those services. To get back to the beginning, not only are we talking, even, about six laws from the Army's domain in one package, but they're also really mixed with "babs and frogs." You have some bill proposals that are decent, and you have this miracle of the law that you have proposed and I ask you to withdraw it. However, I doubt Mr. Trade and Services Minister can do it, but what's suggested is no good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27190	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27191	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, respected ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry of Defence have proposed to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence. The Defence Act is one of the most significant laws and, as we have said during the debate, the SPS-JS Parliament Club believes that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law should certainly be adopted. In addition to the law, the names of certain areas are more precisely defined, the individual rights and obligations of the defence minister and the ministry themselves are set out in more detail. The only, perhaps, possible objection would be that the defence minister has some sort of great authority, and responsibility is not exactly, it seems, the best-defined. In view of the upcoming reforms, these amendments should certainly be adopted, with a view to considering certain suggestions, with a view to considering certain proposals through amendments, and all in order to obtain a better quality legal solution. For example, Article 24 provides for mandatory security checks for persons performing planning and handling defence plans and defence-related jobs, a basic prerequisite for the functioning of the defence system. It's a good thing it's a regulated area of military uniforms and markings, but it seems to me, the problem is we have a lot of uniforms that aren't in use, and they're slightly different from the ones in force. We think that the amendments and additions to the Defence Act will not affect the level of the budget, i.e. it will not change the budget of the Republic of Serbia more significantly. The amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army make it more clear that the defence ministry's direct intention is to serious relations within Serbia's Army, above all, by introducing a military inspector into the defence system, reduce corruption and abuse in the service. The appointment of a military inspector, as referred to in Article 53a, may in a certain way and amend it in a context of internal control of the work of the military police in relation to the legality of the application of military powers by an organisational unit organised by the National Defence Inspectorate, with the reason that it avoids the possibility that the person who proposed the person has influence on him, because he is subject to and in his composition, even though he formally reports to the defence minister. I also believe that, when it comes to Article 53b, we can, in a certain way, correct this legislative proposal if, for example, we add at the end of the article, on the basis of the evidence collected, the D.A.'s office reports that the overruled powers, if it is established in fact that all the necessary actions have not been taken in pre-criminal proceedings by the military police authority, are initiated through the D.A.'s office to take the necessary actions. We will discuss amendments in the discussion of details. The draft law on military, labour and material obligations very correctly and professionally, I would say, solves the doubts faced by the competent authorities of the Ministry of Defence and the military departments in local self-government, the 1999 experience suggests there have been a lot of violations in the law. Issues have been addressed as to who goes to Serbia's Army and who goes to civil service, or civil service, especially in the work on labour and material obligations. The penalty measures for the offenders of this law are adequate, they should only be implemented to the end and without exception. The law should be improved over time, as is foreseen by the adoption of regulations that will define certain areas and certain parts of the law closer. Article 66. The bill should perhaps be more precisely defined in the service work in Serbia's military with dual citizenship. Some countries in the environment do not have an obligation to serve the army, and people with dual citizenship issue confirmation that they have regulated the military obligation. A member of the 54th law provides for an active reserve as an excellent solution if the Serbian Army is professionalised. The Civil Service Act sets out how to go to civil service, the rights of persons who go to the service of civil service and the obligations of companies and institutions towards persons who are serving. According to this law, it seems to me that in a certain way the term “refuse of conscience ” is not clear, but it is essential at this point. In fact, there is a need to systematically regulate into which organizations and companies, recruits can leave. Cleaning the streets, charging the parking lot is beneath the honor of serving in a civilian. There's a real problem that small municipalities don't have the capacity to accept anyone who wants to regulate military obligations this way. As for the draft law on the use of the military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, the law tries to resolve this area, although it has a weak foothold in the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think at this point it would be most realistic that the involvement of professional military personnel in peacekeeping operations remains on the basis of volunteering, and the conditions offered by the Ministry of Defence will surely attract a large number of volunteers. The law regulates this area on the security and protection of our persons in peace operations, but we think that, when it comes to this law, a consensus of all relevant political actors should be reached. Article 24, for example, guarantees those persons incomes as in Serbia's Army, and Article 25 allows for an increase in wages, work experience and various compensations, but does not regulate how much these incomes are. Closer terms and the way of the right is signed by the defence minister and may be in a certain way and these excessive powers to regulate this area, especially as the law requires the persons to be required to participate in peacekeeping operations. This law cannot be, as I say, fully implemented for large financial costs, and the budget is more than modest for the functioning of the Ministry of Defence in general. As for the draft law on VBA and VOA, it seems to me that it has been very professionally done and one, I would say, in addition to the recent discussions, in my view, of the best legal proposals to be adopted at this meeting of the National Assembly. The only objection is, with this end, to Article 5 where the area has been expelled – general security measures, which should not be carried out by a specialised agency, such as a security agency, but rather the obligation of the commanding authority and the military police authorities to do these tasks very professionally, I would conclude in the end. Once again, I would like to say at the very end, the SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day will positively declare the proposed legislative solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27192	I thank Mr. Milicevic. The word has a folk MP, Mr Bozidar Delic. Please, just sign in, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27193	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue where I am when it comes to the Law on Multinational Operations. I said, on that occasion, that the defence minister, Mr Sutanovac, in an interview with the "Time", number 978, of October 1st 2009, said "The law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia is a new, modern law, which should allow Serbia to take adequate participation in peace operations around the world, thus raising not only the reputation of the army, but also the reputation of Serbia in the world. Under the bill, Parliament is the only one who can approve of going into such operations, and all participants of the peacekeeping mission are volunteered. “ I completely agree with Mr. Minister, but I ask him then – why is this law not called a law on peace missions or peace operations, but a law on multinational operations? And if the minister didn't think what he was saying, he's already on the next page of the interview, where he says, "I'm sorry that no decision on the participation of our members in the 2003 mission in Afghanistan, when then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic suggested it, I am convinced that certain problems created in the territory of the Republic of Serbia after that time were certainly avoided that we were partners in the collective security system. My smallness, and in 2003, made a small contribution to the hotheads of Prime Minister Zivkovic's disavowing the references of 800 of our troops to Afghanistan. Our soldiers, at the request of the Americans, were supposed to be sent to operations --'search and destroy', because, apparently, we Serbs gained good experience in the long-standing anti-terrorism struggle. At the College of Chiefs of Staff, we discussed the government's request, directed, normally, our opinion and said what all Serbia can wait for if it makes one such decision. But what made the government hesitate then is what we did, after all, and how much money it takes to get those 800 people in the first group, so six months to a year in Afghanistan. It only took 50 million dollars for the original equipment at the moment, and another $50 million for six months. The government didn't last long when we warned them that our soldiers would lose their lives there, but when we mentioned $100 million to them, they didn't mention it anymore. "And Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, today he spoke here and he says peace operations. Well, gentlemen, we have absolutely no problem, if you replace this name of multinational operation with the name - peace operations, then we will agree with you, with some interventions in Article 2(2) of this law and especially in points 2), 3) and 4). The heart of the Serbian Progressive Party's amendment is about intervention in all members, just to replace the term'multinational operations' with the term 'peace operations'. Let me draw your attention to another member of this law. This is Article 43(2) of the Transitional Provisions. This view says that on the date of entry into force of this law, the provisions of Article 9(2) of point 9 and Article 12 of Section 9 of point 12 of the Defence Act, which relate to certain powers of the Serbian Parliament, cease to apply. Legal experts know as well as the knowers of this issue, this is not exactly the usual way to change the basic law by one law, but it is possible, because if this law says that the Assembly will be presented with an annual reference plan in these operations and that it will give its opinion on this annual plan, then this, I say, is deleted from some of the Parliament's instructions – that when it refers to each of these missions, it gives its opinion. It also hides the possibility of abuses, which could be done by the government on behalf of the Assembly. The inconclusiveness of the government, unprofessionalness, has already been said before. We have a few military laws here. Here, we just heard the term "student" and "cadet". We have laws before us, in one category of military faces are called students, and in another cadets. Those laws will be passed on the same day. Well, what kind of government doesn't have the experts to adapt the law they wrote a few months ago to these changes they want to impose on us today? So on the same day, we're going to pass a law with two different terms or, here, we're adopting amendments to the Defense Act, but in these changes, there's no mention of Article 43, which I'm now talking about changing in a whole other law. What kind of professional government service are these?- I'm sorry. It is a shame to refer such documents to the Assembly and then to say that the opposition in turn is obstructing the government's work. We have an unserious government! Let me also mention this last law, and it applies to military services, to say VBA and the Military Intelligence Service, VOA. The laws were absolutely necessary. With our amendments, we have drawn attention to some members who should be precise or to some things that should be changed. This is where Mr. Shami, in his discussion, touched the core of the problem. It shows - Inspector-General. That's the problem. Some other security services have already been fully placed under party control. By introducing the Inspector General, this is also the case with military services, although at 1) the point of his duties is just talking about how he should ensure this impartiality, nonpartial membership, and so on and uninteresting engagement within those services. That's just funny. And if you wanted to secure that complete civilian control, then that chief inspector doesn't need us to propose a defence minister, then it's elected by the government. The right solution would be, gentlemen, if the government had offered to propose to the Assembly several candidates, and this assembly would have chosen the Inspector General, and, then, that the General Inspector was sending reports to the Assembly and informing the Minister of Defence about the controls and supervision he has carried out over the work of these services. And something else is also symptomatic of this law. It is said that this inspector general should have at least nine years of experience, or service on these security matters, our proposal is otherwise to be 20 years. It is known that in these services for nine years people only go through basic duties, and the duty of the Inspector General is the highest duty, Maltena, which can be achieved in these services. Probably someone thought there might be no party personnel who have been in these services for 20 years, so these young people who have stood up for the nine years of Serbia's agony should be placed in such places?- I'm sorry. If our amendment were to be adopted, the people who spent 20 years in that service have come to the greatest duties that exist in these services and could do the job, but here, for example, the Internal Affairs Institution is absolutely under-worked in law. It's something the minister needs to provide, which is about his agency directors and himself. Apparently, they didn't have much interest in it, because the issue of Internal Affairs didn't concern them very much, but the Inspector General did. The position of the Serbian Progressive Party is that this solution is also the law, if it remains in its current form that the General Inspector is elected by the Government, it is unacceptable and we will not vote for it. But it would certainly be acceptable if several amendments were accepted, including this amendment, for the Assembly to elect the General Inspector and to be accountable to the Assembly and the Assembly Committee on Defence and Security, and to attend the meetings of the Assembly Security Committee occasionally. We are constantly talking about civilian control of the army. Here, we even get objections from the defence minister and from different places that as a Assembly we have not engaged enough and as the most responsible legislator we do not carry out our part and do not assume our share of responsibility for civilian control of the military. And how will we, when only framework laws are passed in this assembly, and then to the Government, or ministers, are given to write regulations themselves and determine the very essence of the law. That's why I always say - I feel ugly when I read some of these laws and I look at 250 of us here, especially watching the opposition part, because here everything will be adopted, everything that's sent from the government. We are a simple transmission of the government's will and never for these two mandates, since I've been in the Assembly, has happened to be told from here – stop, this is wrong, this is not in the interest of the Serbian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27194	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27195	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, you know the fact that the SRS is paying maximum attention to every draft law delivered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it is safe and responsible for accessing the basic analysis of the proposed legal solutions. We also acted on the proposal for a set of laws delivered by the Government, which regulate the most sensitive issues related to the defence of sovereignty, territorial integrity and survival of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the draft law on military, labour and material obligations, the SRS generally appreciated that the proposed solutions are unacceptable, as such a law systematically undermines the fighting ability and defence of the Serbian state. A set of proposed military laws makes it clear that the DS is consciously fulfilling Western powers' tasks and that it is the bearer of a project to weaken defence power and the Republic of Serbia. That Western forces, and especially the United States, have worked for many years to break up the Yugoslav Army and now the Serbian Army, confirms the fact that State Secretary Colin Powell, on February 26th 2001, has asked then Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic to reform urgently. That same year, in late August, NATO's chief commander, Wesley Clark, and the leader of the terrorist KLA, Hashim Thaci, met in Pristina. During the conversation, at one point, Clark said to Thaci, "Don't worry, it's all going as planned. The Ministry of Defence will be aware of heavy weapons in the planned frameworks. At least 250 T84 tanks must be destroyed and more than 42 multi-point rocket launchers used." Wesley Clark added, "We are fully aware of this and we are doing everything as you were told earlier. Their armed potential will be reduced to such an extent that they will never be able to threaten you again. Look at what happened to their air force. The planes are grounded because there's no kerosene. Their soldiers have no basic conditions for combat training. We need to know where every bullet is spent. Our people, who are with them as advisors, the state thing under control. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens, it is unequivocal that a joint criminal enterprise against the Republic of Serbia is involved, in which, in all likelihood, other than America and other Western forces, some state officials from the ruling coalition act are involved! The SRS believes that the Civil Service Act should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure until the moment the potential dangers to the state of Serbia cease, i.e. aggression in general or parts of its territory. All the pressures and blackmails of the West and America so far regarding the change of several thousand laws to join the EU, the arrest of alleged crimes indictees, and in particular Ratko Mladic, the IMF blackmail, the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija, the opening of new hotspots in Vojvodina and the pouring of'salts on the wound', by causing international and religious conflicts and intolerance in the Old Serbia, or the Raski area, are merely forsaking the definitely breaking of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, all the countries of the world pay extraordinary attention to the military obligation, because through the way it is implemented, regulated by law, the most direct way of expressing the country's commitment to the defence system is defined by the obligations of state authorities, other legal entities and businesses, and in particular the rights and obligations of citizens in the defence system. This practically means that these legal solutions are defined by the state of Serbia as to how they will be organised, how to prepare and how to defend their sovereignty to challenges and threats to the security of the country and its citizens. Can we agree that the security environment, or the environment of Serbia, is so favourable that we can allow ourselves to rely only on "powerful" diplomacy in the defence of sovereignty and to fully uncritically build in systemic solutions the recommendations of the authorities and international standards and agreements that are made only in terms of recommendations, which means that they are not binding, first of all, the EU, and that the EU will not under its security umbrella. The SRS believes that all proposed military laws should be adopted by consensus in the Serbian Parliament and should be the result of the consent of all or most parliamentary parties, rather than imposing a solution to a political option that, at all costs, seeks to impose foreign mentors' requirements. Definitely, the destruction of the Army began on 15 March 2003, with Boris Tadic on the duty of Serbia-Montenegro Defence Minister (now current president of the Republic of Serbia) who was then with his adviser, Mr Rakic (now head of the Cabin) at consultations, in fact, a briefing at the Marshall Centre, where he was given precise guidance on how to systematically reform the Army and its combative state are reduced to a thin level, so that he can't realize any of the tasks that the military has under the Constitution. For this reason, I ask all MPs to rise above the tightest interests and to critically analyse the proposed laws, and in particular the proposal for a law on military, labour and material obligations, in order to develop to strengthen the military's combat preparedness, to help the military strengthen and, as such, defend the country's sovereignty and become a factor of stability in the Balkans. The importance of these laws is given to the ruling coalition by the fact that, for creditors of such important and key laws, persons without key qualifications and credibility have been directed to the survival of the military and state as a whole. I am not sure that Ms Slavica Jerkovic, as a government trustee, could understand and correctly assess whether any proposed amendment should be accepted, as it is only on the party line, which, according to our information, has recently worked as a lawyer in a farming community in Obrenovac. The second trustee of the government, Mr Igor Jovicic, is a member of the DS. Mr. Jovicic is known as the Secretary General of the Federal Government, a man who blindly obeyed the orders of Separatist Svetozar Marovic, and is also responsible for some unexposed affairs, especially around the "Satellite" affair, is now State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. What are his qualifications for these very important areas, it is not difficult to conclude. For the third trustee appointed by the government, Colonel Goran Zekovic, the SRS has had information from the Ministry of Defence that it was a good federal officer who has performed his duties honorably so far, working to strengthen the battle effort in the units in which he served. Mr. Colonel, as a kind of officer, don't give in to the plots and traps of the DS and withdraw from the defense of such bad laws and, unlike the Hague indictees who lost everything but preserved the military honor, you have nothing to lose. I suppose that, however, the law will not be voted by the MP, Mr Konstantin Arsenovic, Lieutenant General in Retired, who has spent his entire working life working to strengthen the battletime. I am convinced that MP Arsenovic will be able to identify the bad solutions and will convince MPs from his parliamentary group that the bill's proposals do not match the current time and will thus be defined during the vote. I should like to draw attention to the fact that the Civil Service Bill, which the Government has delivered to us, is essentially not only the decommissioning of the defence system, but the direct submergement of the battle effort that the Democratic Party started in 2003, and now this law only wants to implement them. All the solutions in the bill have already been incorporated into the current Civil Service Regulation and are now required by us that the Serbian Parliament legalises this act, that we MPs be complicit in self-destructing its own state, nation and religion. Today I ask the question of both Minister Sutanovac and Colonel Zekovic and the Government of Serbia and all MPs – will the state defend trained officers and soldiers or someone who washed toilets in hospitals and nursing homes, published books in some library, worked as a guard in a bank or post office, a funeral home or another city administration service? He won't! Because, like, tomorrow, they couldn't defend themselves or their families. When it comes to the defence of the state, there is no objection to the conscience provided for by this law. All military personnel must attend regular military service. The objection of conscience could be misused and soldiers who would honor military service would be hesitated, for the person serving in civil service is in great advantage. I'll just give you some examples. A civil service recruit serves in his town. A recruit serving in a barracks is mostly in a different city. Civil service recruits are free after hours, sleeps in his own house, and is in civilian all the time. The recruit who serves in the barracks has no hours, sleeps in the barracks, spends time and, almost, is always in uniform. A civil service recruit is with his family and friends every day. A recruit serving military time in a barracks with family and friends is when he's released at home, on weekends or on regular leave. A civil service recruit can't be banned or punished. A recruit serving military time in a barracks can be punished by a ban on leaving the barracks, as well as by a prison. The most dramatic difference, however, awaits them only as soldiers in the Serbian Army's reserve. The recruit who served in civil service will never be invited to a military exercise, maneuver, or war! A recruit who has served honorably in military service, under arms, in a barracks, until his 60 years of life is subject to obligations, military exercises, maneuvers and compulsory participation in war. Tell me, then, who is willing to serve military time under arms, in the barracks, besides such a detimulative and drastic difference?- I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, such poor military laws are the result of the professional work of alleged experts who have introduced chaos into the defense system, as it allows recruits to serve in schools, libraries, universities and other city services. It is fortunate that no law on the legalization of prostitution has been passed, so at least for now, it will not serve military service in public houses. The proposals for military laws we are discussing are formulated with a goal - the worse the defense system, the better for the execution of foreign mentors' actions. This must end, and the parliament of the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to analyse and order measures on systematic defence, so that the military can implement the Constitution of established obligations. Mr. Minister, if you do not withdraw from the procedure the Civil Service Bill, then tell the citizens of Serbia that it is coming to the end of the oldest state in the Balkans! If, in turn, it is adopted and effective before the European Union falls apart, then tell the citizens - goodbye, Serbia! Because in that case, we won't even be able to defend her name. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to redecorate, systematize, this law on military, labour and material obligations, as well as other military laws, and to reduce some powers as it concerns the Army of Serbia, not the private army of the Democratic Party. These chapters and powers are particularly expressed in the section – Disposal, termination and release from the obligation to serve the military term. This chapter is on page 11. The bill, from Articles 39 to 46, where there are no serious reasons why exactly the defence minister should decide who will be a member of the commission, and what kind of expert cook is needed, or is it enough just to be a member of the DS? The Democratic Party has chosen the best way to abuse in these members of the bill, because, according to its own assessment of non-professional persons, some recruits would be privileged and freed from military service and perhaps mobilization, in the event of war, immediate war danger and emergency. In the draft law on military, labour and material obligations, in Chapter III – Working obligation, and in Chapter V – Material obligation, the Serbian Radical Party Parliamentary Group is interested in how does the minister think to implement members of this law in practice, from Articles 82 to 125? Because this bill does not specify what obligations foreign companies, institutions or banks have in implementing this law. Do you really expect foreign companies to participate in the obligations of defence of the Republic of Serbia, if aggression were to come right from the countries where they came from? They won't, and don't expect it! Nor will the owners of foreign companies make their mobile and immovable property available to the military, nor will it allow employees to return to their jobs if they respond to military exercises or mobilization. They, as well as ambassadors, bankers, will be the first to flee and carry with them all Serbian capital. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, the Serbian Radical Party will in the debate on details point to all the devastating consequences of such bad laws and its amendments trying to fix the laws, although it believes that with some proposals it is premature. Finally, I would like to add that the SRS MPs' group completely rejects the Civil Service Law proposal, although it does not mind accepting the part relating to the objection of conscience, i.e. the service of a military period without weapons, which would only apply to religious persons serving religious rituals and recognised religious communities in the Republic of Serbia. The explanation of the proposings and the appeal to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of civil service law has no basis, since the proposal for a law on military, labour and material obligations provides an objection to the conscience and service of the military without weapons. The amendments tabled on a proposal for a set of military laws, and particularly on military, labour and material obligations and civil service, the SRS intends to, despite the bad solutions, shortcomings and shortcomings, make its contribution in order to eliminate many misunderstandings and contradictions. The laws should be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, without prejudice to the country's defence system, even though the strategic definition of defending the integrity of the Republic of Serbia is not operationalised through the proposed law on military, labour and material obligations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27196	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27197	Madam President, I point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, I think you've been obliged to interrupt the previous speaker, warn him, and give him a warning about the insults he's made saying. I understand that his speech is vague, boring, pointless, as far as the subject is concerned, but, anyway, you have to follow when he insults. So he said this is about a joint criminal enterprise involving state authorities. Based on what he's said here, he really has to face serious sanctions. Secondly, he insulted the representatives of the ministry and the government here, knowing that they had no right to answer the word and to tell the truth. If he as a football coach thinks he can talk about the defence strategy and the defense laws and criticise people who are qualified to write those laws, it's his personal business. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Do not insult Parliament and the MPs. But he's not allowed to insult anyone in this home, even if he was a football player who knew he was naked, not just judging a penalty.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27198	Mrs. Kolundjia points to something I'd like to remind you of. I ask you to keep verbalization in line with the dignity of the home we belong to, whose reputation we should take care of. That was the answer to something that preceded it. Therefore, the energy in expression, and sometimes the political acuity that paints the contents, of course, allowed, but I warn you that qualifications of the type of "criminal association" do not avoid but rather to justify them, because if there is one, someone would have to bear sanctions for it. Otherwise, you carry sanctions for insulting the dignity of those who do their job with extreme security. Let this be a real warning for now, I ask you not to put me in a position to impose sanctions. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Martinovic, come in. Just sign up, Mr. Martinovic. No, you're not. You have to do it again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand why Mrs. Hope Kolundji reacted so hard. Mr Ljubisa Petkovic, as an MP for the SRS, presented facts concerning the bill's proposals and for individuals working in the government and the Ministry of Defence. I don't know why you're so bothered with the construction of a joint criminal enterprise, Mrs. Kolundji, well, it's the construction of the UN tribunal. For you, the sacred goal is to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. How can there be no mention of a "joint criminal enterprise" in the National Assembly, and Serbs in The Hague tribunal are sentenced to almost a thousand years in prison for a "joint criminal enterprise"?- I'm sorry. I don't understand how government representatives at the National Assembly can't argue with MPs. Of course they can and they have to go to bed. The problem is that the government sent people here not to flaunt, but to keep quiet. You want Parliament to turn into a place to be silent. We don't want that. We want to talk openly and freely about every topic on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament. There is no more important topic at this point, such as defense and security of the state! Instead of criticizing the government for sending here a man who has no real reason to have a soft relationship with defence and security, you insult the MPs of the SRS. Does that mean we have to ask you if we can or can't use any words? If that's any new rule you've formulated today or yesterday, let us know, and we'll ask you. Publish on entering the National Assembly a list of forbidden words You must not mention: thieves, criminals, a joint criminal enterprise, the destruction of the state, recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, you must not insult Wesley Clark, Javier Solana, NATO Pact and so on!- I'm sorry. But, please, let us know in an adequate way so that we know what words we can...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27201	It's been two minutes. Mrs. Kolundjia has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27202	Not only do we not mind you talking here, on the contrary, I think it goes in favor of you talking, because it's obvious that you don't even know the subject, that what you're saying doesn't stand, that you're making up, that you're accusing without any basis. What I was reacting for is not what you're talking about, but what the gentleman said. He said, not because he said ''the joint criminal enterprise, but that – the representatives of the state are involved. So it's something that's inadmissible to say about this pay phone. Second of all, it's no problem that you want to talk to the minister, but he's been calling people who sit here and don't have the right to answer him, and you know it very well. That's what this is about. That's what's inadmissible. What I said about the gentleman - I only cited his calling and education on the official website. So, he's a football coach, he writes it on the site, I didn't invent what he's into, he's just that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27203	The word has been made by the People's MP, Mr. Dragan Shormaz. Sign in, Mr. Shormaz. (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27204	Do I have a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27205	Mr. Shormaz, just for a moment, I'm just warning you that the discussions on the same subject or the advertising of the Rules of Procedure on the same subject are made up of conconsequences, which are well known to you. You want me to give you my word and punish you if you talk about the same topics? Mr. Shormaz, come in. Do you want a word? Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27206	So, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I really have no intention of insulting Mrs. Nada Kolundji, on the contrary, deeply respecting that she is a national MP and I had no intention of insulting her even during my previous presentation. I'm just inviting her to speak a little more quietly when it comes to the MPs of the SRS. We didn't insult anyone. If someone worked as a lawyer in the farming community, is that an insult? All the lawyers who work in agricultural cooperatives in Serbia are you people of the lower race. When you tell them that they work in a farming community they're less valuable than the ones employed by the Privatisation Agency, that's not true at all. I have a suggestion for you, Mrs. Djukic – Dejanović. [[Applause]] In order for me to tell you what I intend to say to the MPs you must turn on my microphone, I cannot speak informally to you. And now I have to talk from my stomach whether I want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure or if I've answered the line. It would be correct to give me in some way the word as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, I apologize if I offended someone, I really had no intention. I call on both Mrs. Kolundji and all the MPs to discuss the subject on the agenda, there is no need for us to be offended here, the topic is extremely serious and interested in all citizens of Serbia. I call on Mrs. Kolundzija, who is head of the MEP Group for European Serbia, to talk about this issue with reason, argument, without excessive negative emotions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27207	Mr. Shormaz, just sign in again, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in this remaining time of ours, I will probably not use it until the end, because in this situation there is little purpose, as far as I can see, we are talking for two days about this very important portfolio, a very important part of our country, we are talking about national security, about the defence system, and here, again, and now, in Parliament, there are situations which are politics and teaching to each other, which certainly cannot contribute to either the defence system, nor the national security system, nor Parliament's reputation, who participates in this. It is interesting that the representatives of the executive government in the country's days are hysterically accusing, without any basis, of, say, the DSS of various things, about violence and when we're not the government, and of, I don't know, maintaining some parades, which we haven't tried to prevent or dispute at any moment, and so on. Constructions go, and it is known who pronounces them and invents them, as they make up that we are against the EU, as we are made up to be against participation in peacekeeping missions. So, then, after that, they give lectures to others in Parliament as well as how to do and behave. They repeat the following, as regards four laws, civil service laws, amendments and additions to the Labour, Military and Material Obligation Act, as regards the DSS, we believe that they are a step forward in relation to existing laws from an old system. So, basically, they're a better solution than we've ever had, since the time the state ruled the doctrine of an armed people, which I hope we left a long time ago. Although I see that today and yesterday in the debate there were some fellow Members of the people, who were still at that time, which we recognized in the explanations and attitudes they made. These aren't bad solutions, we've given some amendments to them. Also, at the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Army of Serbia, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, we have given some amendments concerning these amendments that the people of the Ministry have offered. We think that this could be the way to fix or specify the changes that have been made. Of course, it will depend on whether these amendments are accepted or not. You'll see that there are extremely specific amendments that specify the situation. Mr. Shami explained this well before me, and I've been trying to explain this law to the public, in the last few days, the draft law on military and military intelligence. However, we will admit, his adoption has been discussed for a long time, as you know, he came by emergency procedure, last Thursday was adopted by the government. So he came to us in the process pretty quickly, suddenly, and it's always about the time we had to prepare and so on. But for such a short time as we were preparing, we saw that this law is essentially not a step forward, as far as the organization and work of the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency is concerned, because there are intertwinations in what is jurisdiction. We still believe that, as the name says, the Military Intelligence Agency is a business of only intelligence activity and that, of course, in all those jobs that have an interest in the work of the Serbian Army and not in some other areas. There have been civil talks here, citizens' rights if they are threatened, etc., but they must never be threatened by these agencies. On the other hand, the Military Security Agency, which in our opinion, which does not say in the law, says that it should also have security and counterintelligence services, should only deal with counterintelligence, it is very clear everywhere in the world done. Well, look, Mrs. Hope, since you're looking at me, you'll see in the jurisdiction that the VBA is tasked with performing security and counterintelligence. We think the Military Security Agency only needs to do counterintelligence work, not general security work. There are jobs that only the Ministry of Defense does, there's what the Army does, the command system, things that concern general security, but, well, that's what we're supposed to do, we're only bringing up our objections. We're not voting for the law. We have submitted amendments that can help the law, especially in the field of labour control, where we have tried to strengthen our amendments, above all, the control of these agencies by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is our job, and so are the amendments. Also, we wanted to specify the work of that inspector general, who already boasts in advance as a good solution, and that in practice we still don't know if there's going to be a good solution at all. We also said that we have objections to the work of that inspector and even to his choice, because, I will remind you again, that is what Mr. Shami said, the proposal provides that this man should have nine years of work in the profession, and that he should be from the civil sector, so he should be a civilian person and should have the experience of nine years of working in the profession. What kind of profession is that, and where could it have acquired its expertise in counterintelligence? Where could he have gained that profession and had that experience of nine years, if he hadn't just worked at a military security agency or intelligence? Where could he get that nine-year profession and experience he's got?- I'm sorry. So, literally, like Mr. Shami said, it's a service. He needs a man from the service to control the service. Now, that's a little harder going, and it's hard to call civilian control of the Military Intelligence Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency. That's the first one. Second, and when we choose him and when he's appointed by the minister, again, what's his job except for the supervision itself? So it's up to him to monitor, essentially to help the Secretary of Defense do some other things. The inspector monitors them and then he comes to the minister and says what he saw, and that's all. That's what he needs to get paid for, and that's civilian control. If that's what we're going to do, why not at least allow that inspector to propose measures against those who violate the rules of service in those agencies, which violate the law at the very least. You know, the Chief Inspector of the Police, not to have the right to propose measures, sanctions, but also to have an inspection service, has the right to investigate within the police. That's what we brought into the Police Act. This one has only the right of supervision and to go to the minister to report to him and end what he saw, and moreover, no more questions asked. I repeat again, we believe that this step is also a step back, it has nothing to do with the so-proclaimed story of European values. The people of the ruling majority are full of mouths about European values. We believe that the traditional values of the Serbian people are part of European values and that we have no more to be ashamed of and to pursue something different and higher when Serbian culture, tradition and history is an integral part of European culture, tradition and history. Every nation in Europe has had dark periods and bright periods, so I don't see what we in our history, closer or further, have to be ashamed of, but we just have to be proud and that we were Europe. As far as EU issues are concerned, we have said several times what the Democratic Party of Serbia's stance means -- in the EU, but first let's see what they think of Serbia. When they tell us that, then we'll make a decision. That's what your president says, but he's contradictory. He says, "Europe has no alternative, but if we are asked to join the EU only after Kosovo's recognition, then we will not. 'Well, that's contradictory, that there's no alternative when there's 'but'. Obviously, since there's already "but" then it's completely pointless for you to "no alternative," but, well, propaganda does everything. It'll be clear to the citizens very soon, if they don't already know everything. Article 23 definitely contains something that is not European values, something that is not the standards of the military security agency, primarily the Military Security Agency (this member refers to it) and what counterintelligence services in the world are doing. So, it can't say, "The authorised official of the VBA in detecting, investigating and documenting the criminal acts referred to in Article 6 paragraph 3) and Article 4) of Article 6(3) of this Act has the following powers," so see how many powers there are, which is not disputed, most of them are ''1 checking and identifying the identity of the person and the identification of the subject; 2) calling; 3) requesting notice; 4) temporary confiscation of the case; 5) viewing of space, objects and documents and counterterrorism review. '"I remind you it's only about the Army. So they have rights to all of this, but only within the military system, the Ministry of Defense. Further: ''6) observation; 7) collection, processing and use of personal data; 8) polygraph testing;' although we all know that this is no evidence in court, but come on, it stands. And, under point nine, it's controversial, ''9 police powers to carry out monitoring and recording of phone and other conversations or communication by other technical means and optical facial recording and taking other measures and actions. '"This doesn't have to be so controversial, but it has to be in accordance with those other laws we've passed under the jurisdiction of the court responsible for it. I'm not saying it doesn't stand, but (point), '' in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings. ''It can't, because according to the law governing the criminal procedure of police authority, 'arrestment', 'incarceration' and those measures. You know this well, a VBA officer can't have that authority, he can't! He can ask for assistance. That's what the military police are for. That's what the police are for. He can ask for assistance, and he can't arrest! These are the remarks we have on these laws. I can say again briefly that we will not vote for this bill on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, for political reasons, and for our position. Because we believe that both the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy, you have tried to open the door to Serbia's entry into NATO pact, not mentioning military neutrality for a moment. That's unacceptable! So one of the defence objectives, one of the national security objectives must be military neutrality. We've spoken countless times about what it's about. It is not disputed our participation in peacekeeping operations, but it must only be if these operations are organised by the UN and not given into NATO's mandate. We will always have that attitude in the congregation. We will not go where NATO has a mandate exclusively, these are currently two operations: ISAF in Afghanistan and, unfortunately, at KIM. So there may be a NATO pact member state to play a commanding role in the peace operation, etc., but if we go under UN decision and not in the contingent of the NATO Pact Member State, as is the case in Chad. Under our flag, our markings, with our contingent – yes! And then I agree, we should do everything positive and contribute to the reputation of the military and the state, but not in the contingent with the NATO Pact, not just because he bombed us, but because NATO is the primary factor, the driver, the power to create an independent state in our territory. They train the security forces of Kosovo, we all know that's what their officers do. They've built the largest base on KIM since the Vietnam war, they're seriously planning on putting rocket shields together, whether they're combined with Turkey or just on KIM. That is why Turkish generals, soldiers, defence ministers and so on are indicative and powerful visits, etc. Serbia, even using a radar system on Kopalnik. They're seriously thinking about it. Let someone deny me that it's not like that, but not from the government. I mean, who put this government together doesn't have to know it's done. Have the U.S. ambassador deny that it's not true. We will ask this question until we get an answer, because it is something that can severely jeopardise the security and territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state. I'm asking everyone, that's why I'm talking about national consensus, to get serious about it. So he can do peace operations, but he knows under what conditions, he can't do it without Parliament's decision. There are indeterminateities here, which is why we have given amendments, let's say: "The National Assembly of Serbia is making a decision on sending a peacekeeping mission to Chad. 'And then, you say, on the basis of the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic makes the decision. I guess, based on the National Assembly's decision, he carries out a decision in that, uh, chain of command. He's not bringing her! The constitution says that this decision is made only by the National Assembly. Also, that's where we gave the amendments to be precise. Yes, the President of the Republic, it is now, tomorrow it will be someone else, thank God. But if under the Constitution it is Parliament's jurisdiction - Parliament is making a decision. In that chain of command, he's still only implementing that decision. Parliament cannot make a decision, so that, then, he, the President of the Republic, makes a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27209	Mr. Shormaz, 18 minutes. Thank you. The word has an MP, Zoran Antic. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27210	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a united debate on six laws, and it seems to me that two laws, first of all, on the law on the use of the Serbian Army in multinational operations and on the law on the Military and Military Intelligence Agency, have had quite one decent debate. Unfortunately, there wasn't enough time, because of the magnitude and weight of this matter that we're discussing today, that even these four laws that are also very important say something more. I think first of all, one criticism should be given to the ministry's gentlemen that after two years we have amendments and additions to the Law on Defence and the Law on the Serbian Army and that, I would say, in even hundreds of institutes. As the SNS Parliamentary Group, we have submitted a large number of amendments to these laws and we hope that with one correct relationship one part of these amendments will be adopted. What I would like to talk about in this time at my disposal is, above all, the civil service law and the law on military, labour and material obligations. Comparing these two laws can come to one conclusion, it seems to me that these proposed laws of military and civil service are not equal, that civil service is in great advantage of military service. The position of the Serbian Progressive Party is that there must be no difference, that military service is needed and that as long as the conditions are not obtained to professionalise the Army, and then, we will see what the need for military service will be. But about that one. It's obvious there's a big difference, and if you let me, first of all, I'd like to deal with what's formal, what the laws say. First, as far as serving time is concerned: when it comes to military service — six months, when it comes to civil service — nine months. You all know that during civil service, it lasts eight hours in institutions or institutions where it is served, that it has a weekend off. When you compare all these obligations, military service and civil service, you'll see that it's about the same fund hours. We have one banal thing about regular leave: in a law that treats civil service, you have a regular leave of absence that is thirteen days, and that in military service you have a regular leave of absence that is ten days. Unnecessarily different, I think. You're scheduled for civil service and emergency leave, and you're not scheduled for military service. The record of whether regular leave, extraordinary or rewarding, has been used shall be kept by the responsible person in the institution in which it is served, when it comes to civil service. You know how it works in Serbia, as far as civil service is concerned. Most of the time, it comes down to getting back to you and getting you fired right away. They are more disturbed by you than they need, because you have made one legal clause mandatory by the responsible persons in the institutions and institutions where they serve, that recruits cannot be assigned to jobs that would potentially mean to them, that you must fire someone from that institution, or possibly, to do jobs for which the specification has not been established, or to establish a job. Therefore, they are very often unnecessary in these institutions, including the very record of whether or not they are present or not they are quite unsupervised. We have in the Civil Service Act the possibility that at a time of regular service, a person can travel abroad. You don't have that when it's military service. You have a fact that when it comes to military wages, they have the right to both. The person who's at civil service has travel expenses and nutrition. When it comes to disciplinary responsibility, one thing is that these sanctions are being strengthened, when it comes to military service, that an institute of banning from leaving the barracks is 15 days, that, if a soldier is punished by that penalty, it is not considered a military term, but that is why the weekend, which is unworkable, counts for those who serve in the civil service, is a military term. That the person who conducts the disciplinary procedure in civil service from the institution or institution where the recruit serves. It also provides great opportunities for abuse. The fact is that this civil service law is fully laid down in the second plan by a territorial authority, which should play a much greater role and which a number of jobs, especially when it comes to disciplinary responsibility, when it comes to regular, extraordinary, absence, could take place in a much more serious way than it will be done in civil-time institutions. When it comes to the recruiting commission, there are serious opportunities for abuse, it is downgraded to the municipality level by this legal project. It is necessary for those persons who have found incompetence to serve the military deadline to have an ex post check on a higher authority, and that it does not need, possibly, the initiative to give a territorial authority, but to go by automation. I'm convinced this civil service center will not be able to do all the work, because it's with the Ministry of Defense. The scope of these jobs is great, and I doubt we'll have one quality that's necessary when it comes to civil service of the military. I would, given how much time I have left, make another complaint. I think the Institute by which diplomatic and consular representations should keep records and monitor our recruits abroad, is highly ill-conceived in both law and law. It's the Department of Defense's job. Diplomatic-consular representations, possibly, should assist in this, but complete records should be kept by the ministry. So, I'm convinced we're going to have a lot of problems, a lot of poorly kept records. What I would still like to say is that the civil protection provided for by this law and the obligation when civil service is a military term is quite sloppyly done in the previous period. If an analysis is carried out, I'm sure you'd find that most recruits did not have any practical training when it comes to civil protection, and the law itself touched the authority. It took a lot more time to dedicate to that institute. If it is already going to civil service, I think the training of recruits serving military time in civil service and how important it is to society as a whole. In the end, I would also invite MPs and government representatives to look at the amendments the Serbian Progressive Party has prepared. I believe that we have a large number of very serious amendments and that by adopting one part of these amendments we could avoid these insymmetry, I would say even humiliation, in a way, for recruits who have decided to serve in barracks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27211	The word has an MP, Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I don't know where Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija has acquired all military knowledge, but it seems to me that her nakaradan logic by which the Minister of Trade can, on behalf of the Government, explain military laws professionally, but a football coach who, by circumstances, is a war participant and a reserve major, has no right to criticise these drafts of the law. I'm a journalist by profession, but I'm a spare officer of the Serbian Army and the Republika Srpska Army. I spent four years on battlefields, 42 months in the direct war zone, so I hope Mrs. Kolundjia doesn't mind me talking about this. As with my colleague, Petkovic, I believe that from 5 October 2000 to today, there has been a continuing and planned deterioration of military power and the battle effort of the Serbian Army, from two parallel centres. One centre is the US and NATO Pact, the second centre of state leadership of the Republic of Serbia. I'll try to explain it. Serbia's military weakness is seen, above all, in a drastic downsizing of the number of soldiers and officers, the criminal destruction of military technique and early retirement of military personnel. The most dramatic example of the destruction of military technology is the already famous destruction of 2,000 arrows, anti-aircraft hand systems under the orders of the then defence minister and the current president of the state of Boris Tadic. The thing about destroying military technology has gone so far that today's tanks, which are expensively paid and which are still as weapons of fear and shivering for every infantry, are sold as old iron per kilogram without being provided any, let alone an adequate replacement. Practically, by order of top commander Boris Tadic and DS, the Serbian Army has been disarming itself for several years now. In the last eight years, several hundred officers have been away from the Serbian Army, their cleanup has been carried out. It is the officers who successfully commanded the Army of Serbia at the time of the NATO pact's aggression. They opposed the enemy who was 40 times more powerful in the people, and in technology, perhaps all 400 times. It's about officers who would want any army in the world. Practically, the only good Serbia has since NATO's aggression is those officers and their war experience that they won in that war, and you sent those officers into early retirement. Such a attitude towards the people would not be understood even if Serbia were economically stronger than it is, even if Serbia had no security threat. Serbia's army, a strong army that successfully opposed NATO's pact, objectively, impressed both the domestic and world public, an institution that, despite all the affairs, suicides, plus the Serbian Orthodox Church enjoyed the greatest trust of domestic and global public, no one in Serbia or the world takes seriously, as a serious factor in deterring a new aggressor. Our officials' claims that they came to power on October 5th, and are now in power, that Serbia will never war again, are unserious and irresponsible. Serbia, unfortunately, will have to fight and, in terms of historical proportions, will have to be convinced, unfortunately, it will not wait long. First of all, we're a country that's occupied by a part of the territory. Eventually, in five, 25, or 50 years, Serbia will, by nature, have to free its territory. When that happens, it depends on the change in international circumstances, depending on when those who are our friends become stronger than those who are our enemies. In order for the Serbian Army to free its territory, regardless of the circumstances, it must represent an adequate military force. Serbia must have a strong army even in case KIM's territory is denied. Here's why. The first reason is that Serbian enemies did not give up their intention to continue occupying Serbia's territory, to further tear Serbia's territory apart. I ask the question - is there anyone in this room who really believes that the US and NATO pact has given up on these plans?- I'm sorry. I'm convinced there's no one here. However, no one will say this publicly, those in power because the US and NATO pact helped to come to power on October 5th, because they help them stay in power, those in the opposition that are advertised as future authorities count that they will need that power tomorrow and that they will be welcomed. As can be seen, it is a matter of personal and party reasons which are superior to essential, national and state interests. Also, to ask a question – is there anyone who believes that the Cypriots have given up the idea of creating a great Albania or that Croatia or Hungary have given up their plans to separate Vojvodina from Serbia and that the upper limit is 400 metres from here, on Brank's bridge, or that Haris Silajdzic, Mustafa Ceric and other ideological followers of Ali Izetbegovic have given up their intention to destroy the Republika Srpska and that the Rasko area attaches BiH? I remind you that Republika Srpska, the Republic of Serbia as a signator of the Dayton Agreement is obliged to defend the constitutional order of BiH and to defend the existence of Republika Srpska. For all this, Serbia must have a strong army, because only a strong army in Serbia can be a factor in deterring those who want to destroy the Republic of Serbia, those who want to keep KIM under occupation and those who want to separate the Vojvodina from Serbia. That's true. Any other interpretation is either an illusion or a deliberate delusion of Serbian citizens who are being placed in order to create psychological assumptions that Serbian citizens tomorrow are easier to agree to the occupation of another part of Serbia's territory, as they are now practically processing psychologically and medialy to agree that the KiM occupation is a done deal. For Serbia to have a good and strong army, one of the preconditions is that it has good legal solutions. In the opinion of us from the SRS – the bill's proposals, the legal solutions, when it comes to this set of military laws, there are solutions that are directly in the function of weakening the military power and the battle effort of the Serbian Army. Of course, the worst of these solutions is the creation of the practice of the so-called civil service of the military deadline. That's impossible. That's impossible even from a linguistic point of view. How can something that is military be civilian, or how can something that is civil be military? When you say that someone serves civil service military service it's like you say – today I'm drunk of dry water, it's just not possible. In the opinion of us from the SRS – civil military service is a time mine in the defence system of the Republic of Serbia, which breaks the system in a fundamental, practical military sense and morally. We believe that it is necessary to break the civil service practice of the military, not only because it weakens the defence power of the Republic of Serbia, but also because the Army of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian military tradition, defends the Republic of Serbia, exposes itself to a public-lawed joke. The introduction of the civil service of the military deadline was not only destroyed and the degraded Army of Serbia and the defence power of the country, but one of the most beautiful traditions that existed in the Serb people was destroyed, which is the escorting the son of the recruit into the army. You know that up until a few years ago, until you came to power, Serbs sent their sons to the army with pride with music, with the presence of relatives and neighbors. Today, all the more masseous do so in silence, with shame, as if the sons, among them and the children of the only, sent to the army to defend the homeland, but to send them to the parade of pride. Why? Because they don't usually go to barracks, where recruits have been sent to hospitals, health homes, utility companies, theaters, kindergartens, etc. Instead of a rifle, with officers, with soldiers, our sons are increasingly hanging out with children and aunts in kindergartens. They take urine samples in health labs from their grandmothers and walk the houses of Belgrade actresses in Belgrade theatres. You know, it was once the greatest honor to serve the Army at the Special Officers' School in Bilja. Today's greatest privilege is to be a drink carrier or watcher of wigs at the National Theatre in Belgrade. Now, when someone sends a son to the military in that way, it is in my opinion much more honorable to do what was once unimaginable, go to a doctor, pay him to get medical assurance that your son is not capable of serving the Army. Here is a practical question – what will happen if Serbia is at war for the next 20 or 30 years? By nature, things will be forced to mobilize several tens of thousands of soldiers who served a military deadline and never took a rifle into their hands. Guys, do you understand what this is about? They did military service, and they don't know what the gun looks like. The bullets went off. That's nakaradic. What will they represent on the battlefield? Nothing. Clay pigeons. Well, they'll kill more of their comrades if you don't think you're setting them up during the war some course here at the National Theatre. They'll kill their comrades more than the enemy soldiers. Practically, instead of raising our sons to defend our country, we raise them to be cowards, to be deserters, unable to live, let alone be able to defend their country, to fight war. Another bad solution is a solution that needs to change if we want to have an army. It's a provision that the military deadline lasts six months. Anyone who understands this subject knows that in six months, it is not possible to train a soldier to master all the military skills necessary to defend his country, and the regular service of the military term exists precisely for those reasons. Watch the absurd situation – part of the state is occupied, and the state reduces the length of the military deadline by one third, first from twelve months to nine months, and from nine months to six months! The next thing I want to point out is a solution whereby persons over 30 can't be professional soldiers in the Serbian Army. It's something that's completely insane, something that has nothing to do with a healthy brain. We had a war in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999. We had thousands of young men who fought heroically on Paštrik, in Kosharam, stopped the North Atlantic Division, stopped the NATO Pact. These guys have been at war for five or six months, they've felt blood, the smell of gunpowder. These are the guys any army in the world would want. Real professionals. They cannot be professional members of the Serbian Army. For what? Well, it's been ten years and now they're 31 years old. They can't defend the country. I can't be a deterrent factor, but some guys, dads and mom's sons, models that are six feet tall, can have the ideal weight, etc. Do you really think that the guys you're about to see based on some of the contests are better guaranteed by the defence of the Republic of Serbia than the guys who burned three months of the day and night in Kosharam? Every day they buried their comrades and refused to attack the NATO Pact. Even if it wasn't for war, it's completely insane that someone who is thirty-two years old, who meets all psychophysical preconditions, or 39 years old, who wants to serve his country, can't be a professional member of Serbia's Army. It's absolutely not normal for another reason. It is not normal because we are practically introducing practices to defend Serbia by guys who are 18.20 or 25 years old. If tomorrow comes to war, they'll die. Well, is it better to kill those who are inexperienced, who are Serbian youth, or is it better to kill people who are 35.40.50 years old, who have a war experience behind them, who have done something in life and left something behind? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27213	People's MP Milan Škrbić came to the floor. You have your word, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27214	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, gentlemen of the ministry, I am sorry that we have little time to open the debate, not united, but individual, about each law individually, and many MPs have so far agreed in their presentation because these are important laws that we are talking about and we have had to open up each individual debate. The laws we are considering are very important for every country, and therefore for our country Serbia, especially today when the country is in very difficult shape on all issues. We pass laws quickly in a united debate, so we bring something written on paper, and no one talks about whether these laws will be possible in these terms or when they are passed, they will only satisfy some foreign employers, advisers they have in our ministries who know how much. I am sure that we will all agree in one dictionary – that the reform of our army is really necessary. Intruders, ignorances, surfaces there's no room. The army is a very complex and specific mechanism, and therefore these system laws are very, very important and, as such, do not suffer rapid, insecure, large and particularly subtle reforms under the pretext – an army of new spirit and image. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence and this package propose amending certain rules or adopting some new laws in order to bring domestic legislation into line with EU legislation, i.e. to ensure respect for human rights and freedoms to European standards. While the representatives of the Ministry of Defence are considering a number of modes and ways to satisfy all those whose real or fined objection to conscience ensures that in a rather comfortable way they are evaluating all their obligations, without weapons and stay in the barracks or wearing clothes worn by other people, let us also remember those who have made an honorable payment to their country, and today because of the elemental accident, or war events, they have arrived on the street and on the margins of life. It is also about military pensioners who fled to Serbia after the outbreak of the war in Slovenia, Croatia, BiH. There is no law, nor can the EU or anyone else forbid us to treat these people as the law, honor, humanity and obligations impose upon us. Likewise, the Ministry of Defense should not have pushed this problem under the rug all these years and assumed these and similar, allegedly, more important laws. In the remaining time I have, I will try to explain to the citizens first and foremost the disastrous consequences of civil service of the military. So, the greatest damage to Vojsci was caused by Boris Tadic by the adoption of a regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the exercise of military obligations, which allowed the recruits at the time of Serbia-Montenegro, hence, and Serbia, to regulate their obligation as a civil service of the military deadline. The regulation has done more damage to the military's functioning and combat lives than NATO's bombings. The so-called reformers, together with various advisers, military analysts and some NGOs, led a terrible media campaign to promote civil service of the military deadline, although this possibility, I will remind you, was introduced in 1993. The objection of conscience led to absurdity. The recruits, without any verification and justification, were granted requests for civil service of the military deadline, and even those who were on normal military service could, in the first three months of military service, write down requests to move to civil service, which I repeat, was immediately approved. It remethylated training, created indiscipline and prevented the realization of training plans. A planned campaign has shattered youth motivation to serve the military and parents to send children to the military. With such a solution, Tadic violated the Constitutional Charter, which required that the right to object be recognised only by a recruit who enters military service and becomes a soldier. I will remind you of the results of such a thought-out campaign during this period where the number of requirements for this military service, and what is directly reflected in the human potential, rose sharply compared to that in 1993, when this military service was allowed. So, since 1993, from the entry into force of the amendments and the addition of the Military Obligation Regulation until September 2003, the interest in civil service of the military deadline was very low and ranged within 0.01% of the total number addressed in 1995 to 0.06% in 2002. Then what happened? Exactly what I was talking about earlier: a terrible campaign of demeaning the army, officers, minors, has led to a massive approach to military service in this famous civilian way. However, by amending and supplementing the regulation at the time of Tadic's ministry, the situation has changed sharply. In 1995, there were also 15,000 recruits in civil service, which means almost 20%, not counting 8,500 younger than 21 years of age, who came on their own request to serve the military term. When comparing countries in the environment, in Italy, for example, an alternative service or civil service is resolved within 12 to 15 months, while we have only 30 days. In the Czech Republic, Romania and Bulgaria, civil service lasted 24 months at the time, with us for 13 months, and today for nine months, as if by an emergency procedure, as if we were competing who more civilians would be heading for the military section for civilian military service. In a survey conducted by the media at the time with young people awaiting military service, 72% felt that they did not need country defence training, as well as training to participate in the protection and rescue of citizens, material and cultural goods. The Civil Service Department, recruits, argued that it was very useful for society, and based it primarily on material, existential, family and other reasons, other than ideological, which actually constitute a real basis for objecting to conscience. The practical realization of Tadic's regulation has brought many abuses, and we must stress that, because it will probably expect us in the coming period if this law is passed. For example, organisations, institutions in the form of health institutions, cultural institution, educational, pre-school institutions, centres for social work, gerontological centres etc. They've given privileged position to those military bonds that abuse conscience, abuse, repeat. Civil service of the military has also negatively affected the employment of citizens, here's how. During the control of the work of the organization, an institution, some of them were found to fire employees because their work was carried out by soldiers at the service of the military service. I'll give you two examples. As an example, they can serve the "Clinic Centre of Serbia", where there are 17 workers and Kovin -- the "Nurpsychiatric Hospital" in which there are 30 workers left without a job. In a word, Tadic's Regulation led to many abuses, was a front for avoiding military obligations and seriously threatened the completion of Serbia-Montenegro's Army at the time, as only in 2004, there were 10,000 recruits less than the planned number, and that year 76% of the army's composition was completed. The tremendously devastating effect of the regulation, which was brought in with the aim of leaving the army without soldiers, was so dangerous for the military that his successor Davinic too had to admit that there was a failure in the Civil Service Regulation. This regulation has been amended, so the objection of conscience is recognised only by recruits – each complaint will be checked as indicated and the instructions for the civil service of the military term will no longer be attached to education, preferences and the identification of recruits. Of course, at the time Minister Tadic, later Serbia's president and member of the High Defence Council, did not come forward about the change of that disastrous regulation, which he was the creator of. Because of the civil service of the military deadline, the natural reduction of the recruiting potential, the fall of birth, health incompetence, the migration of young people and the departure abroad, all those who have not regulated the military commitment, the bringing down of military obligations to the level of volunteering, calls on individual politicians not to go to the military, which is why we have witnessed these extremely strong negative campaigns against Serbia's Army. Let us remember that then Minister Vuk Draskovic publicly urged recruits not to respond to military service. The total in 2004 was 13% lower than in 2003. In 2004, 78% of the planned 44,000 recruits for military service in units and military institutions were sent if the 85,000 recruits under 21 were excluded. The so-called reformers were followed up by some media racing in negative articles on the military, gossip and affairs. On the other hand, there were almost no affirmative inscriptions on the Army, even members of certain so-called NGOs said they were amazed at what happened to those people who still had confidence in the military. That's why they say -- people should be educated, in the sense that our army is no good, with a message between the ranks that some of the foreign armies are good and welcome in our territory. All I'm saying is the facts of our not so long ago. When the one-year effect of the so-called reformers headed by Boris Tadic, in early 2003 and early 2004, it can be said that they did not define what kind of military we need and for which state; they did not bring the key documents without which the military reform is impossible; they indicated the reduction of the army to 20 to 25,000 people; they allowed foreigners to dictate what kind of military force we will have; they economically exhausted it, and they decapitated it with human beings; they caused the outflow of young elders; they reduced the combatability, firepower, moral standard of troops; they politicised it, brought dissent and divided it into the political line; they did nothing to modernise, which was the most important issue of reform; they reduced honor and dignity of military professions and significantly reduced the interest of young people for military call; they had put all the members of NATO and the NATO terrorists who defended against NATO. They started preparing forces to engage in crisis hotspots, and they didn't do anything on the return of our army and police to Cosmet, but that's why they strongly politically promoted themselves, for all the failures portrayed as great successes and were courting the bosses abroad. If we talked about this, we could really say a lot, but time doesn't allow me, so in these few minutes I'm going to say a few words about the law itself and some members. When we read in detail every member of the Civil Service Bill proposal, we will come up with information that speaks of the indeterminateness of many members. We of the SRS have submitted a lot of amendments. In this brief period of time, I will give just one or two examples of such indetermination, which, later, when passed, will be adopted by the congregation majority, I absolutely believe, without a problem, leading to the error of many who are enforcing the law. For example, Article 2 paragraph 1 point 3) states: 'the persons who object to the conscience are a military bonder', etc. "Other justifiable reasons of conscience," that I'm not reading right now, there's little time, it's not regulated, and there's a need to define the reasons, because in practice, it's happened and it's confusing to the members of the first-degree committees and others, because the other legitimate reasons for consciences are nowhere defined and everything can be wronged. So it's not defined. That is how it is in Articles 4 and 5, and in Article 7 and so on and so on until Article 73, as far as this law is concerned. Here, my time is up, I don't have any more time. Thank you, but we'll talk more in principle. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27215	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta. Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27216	Good afternoon, everyone. I'm glad you understood that I was away before noon. As you know, the Ministry of Defence did not refer the laws to the Assembly, but to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so it really matters. That's what the law says, not who represented it. Dear Ambassador, I would have understood all of this if you hadn't told me otherwise in Somboro a few days ago. You personally told me that things were moving better, that the situation had to be better, that there were no more parents and families on the oath that was in Somboro, that today the greater UTS, the addition to the apartment, than the salary at the time when you were in power, that the pensioners who were left without an apartment and no apartments were left at the time when you ruled Serbia. That's what you and I talked about a few days ago. You forgot, in Sombor? Sir, what's your problem is you have a short memory. You told me all this in the presence of several Serbian Army officers, even boasting, you said that so many citizens had long not gathered in Sombor on oath. Is that what happened? Now you're talking about the state of morale being low. The state of morality is much more than it was at the time when you were making hats for professional members of the Serbian Army. What's a fact, it's that today a professional soldier can be anyone who's capable and meets the conditions of 45 years, not 30 years. So this law is just changing the age limit to allow for those who, until yesterday or today, could be up to 40 so that they can be up to 45, so there is no fact that is referred to as a grudge. On the other hand, you're talking about military pensioners. Indeed, we should know that today's military pensions are more than the average salary in Serbia. The allowance for a flat that today is received by military pensioners who have no settled housing issue is greater than they had paid 10 years ago. It's a real situation. Morales, is he in danger or not? We can comment on that, too. Just three years ago, 27 civilian candidates were running for 240 seats at the Military Academy, and this year 1,000 candidates. This year, there were 12 candidates for military high school education in one free place. It hasn't happened in years. If we're talking civil service, we've also talked about it, Mr. Skrbić, that for the first time since the possibility of civil service, a number of young men have reported serving military service in uniforms. So things change in a positive way. However, what is a fact, if you are against this possibility of civil service, you should present it in the campaign when the elections are, that citizens know what they are voting for, not that you're talking in the campaign that it's completely irrelevant for you, and then come to Parliament and say that it's bad. I'll tell you one more thing, I've been checking out that large number of people who came to you, or your party, or others, in front of my ministry, they've filed some demands for my resignation, and when you check the names, you see that no one has served the Army. You know from various "faces" and other different organizations, "thousands of three hundred and eighty" and I don't know how many, no army has served, and they have a grudge over the situation in the Army. That's what you're talking about here. Given that there are a large number of amendments concerning the name of multinational operations and that it is not obvious why they are called multinationals, I will give you only one example – there cannot be peace operations when we participate in the ceasefire in Romania, Bulgaria or Montenegro. It's very simple, it's a termology that exists both in the East and in the West and in the North and in the South. For those who wonder why we want our members of the Military Academy to return the term 'cadets', I want to say – that name came from 1837, and then it was called 'pitomac', which is thought to be pesoratistic at the Military Academy, because in one time it was also a term for the protégé of the correctional homes, so in the 1990s the term 'pitomac' and the term'student' was abolished, and since members of the Military Academy are not classical students, we want to give them back the name that existed in history and Serbian tradition, it is's 'cadet'. For those of you who don't know today, say, in Russia, in high school, they're called cadets. If someone thinks it's Euro-Atlantic, then you'll have to ask how it's possible that such a thing exists in Russia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27217	Thank you. Mr. Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27218	Thank you very much. It is true that, as president of So Apatin, I took part with pride in the oath of soldiers at the Infantry Recruitment Centre in Apatin or Sombor, in that barracks, and it is true that I said that it was wonderful and beautiful to see an increasing number of people serving military time in uniform, with a rifle in their hand, as it used to be. It is also true that I was just talking about 2003 and 2004, when the terrible media propaganda started, you were not a minister then, you were in the police, I was talking about Boris Tadic when he was a minister and that's true. But you just mentioned some of the data that you checked, who served the military deadline, and I'm interested – on which basis you can verify these personality data and which was the legal basis, whether you use those data for the interstellar interests or in some other way. I believe, as far as I know and know this matter, that you can't use that data, that you get it as a minister, because there's absolutely no legal basis. We will all agree here that it is good and that the military deadline is served in uniform, and we will vote against the civil service or the law that proposes it. [[Applause]] We speak about the same thing, it's good that more young people serve in uniform. It's not good to muddle Serbia's army. It is absolutely not good to talk about the war here, because it is never known, just at a time when Mr Tadic spoke as a minister at certain conferences or educations, Bulgaria also appeared with some of its ministers with territorial claims about the Shop, Dimitrovgrad, etc. So our army must be prepared to defend its homeland and its borders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27219	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27220	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the so-called reform of the Serbian Army, launched by Boris Tadic, and now it looks like it will end Mr Dragan Sutanovac, is actually an Americanisation of the Serbian Army. Birds on the border know more English than Serbian is heard at the General Staff and Ministry of the Military. Birds on the border in Serbia know that you have brought American officers to the Army of Serbia and General Staff. The fact that you personally, Mr. Sutanovac, are taking pictures with NATO bombers, with children's killers in Serbia, can only serve you honorably, and certainly not with this people and this country! You're talking about a short memory. Well, Mr. Sutanovac, if you didn't have a brief memory then you certainly wouldn't have insisted on entering the NATO Pact. I hope you're not so short of a memory that you've forgotten about NATO aggression, that you've forgotten about as many civilian victims, about so many murdered children, and about as much material damage as your friends have done to Serbian citizens. The fact that you are their student, Mr. Sutanovac, is your personal matter, but you must not and do not have the right to propagate in public, you have no right to propagate in the world and you have no right to propagate in this House! You yourself know the fact that if you had thought to check in public how many citizens of Serbia want us to enter the NATO Pact, so that the data for you would be defeated and what you love personally, keep to yourself, try to act as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These days when we started this very serious debate about the very serious proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which relate to the Serbian Army, we had no intention of talking to you personally. You're initiating that kind of conversation yourself, it's characteristic of you. We had no intention of mentioning it to you when you were employed at the Federal Police Department, that you took a 24-year-old severance fee and that the law never allowed you to return to state authorities again. We didn't ask you who was responsible for the death of the military pilots. We have tried to really talk about the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, unfortunately, you represent in this Parliament. The other day, you were publicly boasting that there was an increase in the number of young people who wanted to serve military service in uniforms and that there was less and less of those who wanted to serve the army and that's something that wasn't your credit, be sure. It is not because you have abolished even military beans, to completely eliminate everything that is traditional in the Serbian Army, it is due to the fact that more and more young people in Serbia are patriotically oriented and thank God that so and thank God that they do not follow your example. When it comes to the proposals of these laws, which you have delivered to us in the package, the truth, you are not responsible, but the ruling majority, why we are discussing six or seven laws in a single debate, is something that is also inadmissible and what actually says that the ruling majority just wants to take off the agenda some drafts of the law, completely uninterested to participate in the debate, and therefore the ruling majority does not mind that the six laws are spoken of in a united debate. Today was an interesting reaction from one of the ruling majority colleagues, showing nervousness. It is probably understandable, given the fact that there are also in the ruling majority of people who have not forgotten what happened in Serbia in the 1999 NATO aggression. I suppose you have noticed, given that it is impossible to talk about all these laws, we in our parliamentary group have made one division, or an agreement that each of the MPs speaking in the principle debate is only talking about one bill so that, as far as possible, we can show the citizens of Serbia more of what the Serbian government has proposed to us. I will talk about the bill on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. We have noticed that there are three groups of shortcomings in this bill. One, which is most important, is unconstitutional, and some of the provisions of the bill are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. One number of provisions of this law are in mutual collegiation. The third group of objections is that there are some very imprecise provisions in some members of the law that are not in line with the Labour and Family Law Act, and they speak of matter that is from these areas. It seems to me, Mr. Minister, that someone who has translated this law is not too fond of you, so it seems possible that these remarks may come from the fact that you have a very bad translation of this law. We have submitted a large number of amendments to this bill and we will discuss it in detail in the principle debate, and now I will try, as much as I have time left, to comment on some of the most characteristic members of the law. I would really like to hear your answers, or at least hope that you will understand some of this correctly and that you will accept, if you want the law, as much as it is applicable and consistent with the Constitution. Article 1 in the 2nd position – you say that everything that is not directly governed by this law is subject to rules on defence, civil protection and Serbia's military and concluded international contracts in the area of security, defence and military co-operation, as well as regulations governing the jurisdiction and work of other defence forces. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this formulation - the concluded international agreements, extends through a number of members in this law. Our amendment intervention in each such case was that it had to stand "a ratified international contract". The state of Serbia is not bound by any international treaty that has not been ratified in this parliament. We really think you'll appreciate these remarks, if you're not going to abuse this law when you bring it in. In Article 2(1), point (3) speaks of multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, within the meaning of this law, which covers missions, tasks in the preservation of national, regional and global security and peace in the world, among other things, are 'joint defence operations in accordance with the defence rules' - this point is in conflict with Article 13. A bill of this law. It would really be good for you to take this well-intentioned and to change either this point or the second position of Article 13, which says: 'In the event of a declaration of war or an emergency, it is not possible to refer to multinational operations members of the Army of Serbia to the abolition of the war or emergency, except for the multinational operation referred to in Article 2(1) of point 3 of this law. In Article 3rd point 1), this member speaks of sending the army of Serbia and other forces into multinational operations and you say it is based on principles, and then it is one of the principles – ''that the participation of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in a concrete operation is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and international law. 'Our army, wherever it is, Mr. Minister, must behave in accordance with international law. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia cannot be applied outside the Serbian state. I assume the lawyers, your associates, know that and that this is some kind of mistake. I hope you accept this through our amendments as well. In this same article, point 3) you say that "the activities of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in connection with participation in multinational public operations are objectively represented. ''It's very interesting that you have entered such a provision into the bill, because two questions are now being asked here. First of all, who in public represents Serbia's Army and other defence forces in connection with participation in multinational operations? Is this about someone representing who's supposed to be military or military bar, or is this some kind of predetermined hack on the press besides such a rigorous Public Information Act? Even through this law, you should ban journalists from reporting on these activities through autocensorship. Secondly, an even more interesting question – what do you plan to do if you prohibit the law from letting the public know about it, that is, that is to say that it is objectively presented in public? I suppose it is understood that in the public of these activities, the Serbian Army, at least on behalf of the Ministry and the General Staff, will be presented objectively. In Article 4, the term 'completed Contracts', which you do not predict are also ratified, and in the position of Article 4, you say, 'Employment of the obligation under Article 1 of this Article shall be provided by the Government and the Ministry of Defence, in accordance with the rules on defence, or by the competent authorities according to the powers laid down in the concluded international contracts. '"This is an absolute source of abuse and such an undefined provision should never be in this or in any other law. Also, we predicted that Article 5 should be deleted. The proposal of this law, and in the position of Article 2 of this Article 5, you say: 'Members of other defence forces, in accordance with the needs, may engage in multinational operations under Article 2(2) of this Act and that they are obliged to act in accordance with the law, decisions of the competent authorities and principles and rules of international humanitarian law' Here you did not foresee the Constitution, so this is the same in collapsing with that Article 3 which I was already talking about, and it would be good to define whether you will retain this provision 'in accordance with the Constitution', so that it will be in each member where necessary, or you will accept our amendment so that you will rely solely on international law outside of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 7, you are talking about preparing and referring to multinational operations and withdrawing from these operations, and then, among other things, you say, "The annual plan of use is based" at point 2) on "the commitments that the Republic of Serbia has made to international security, defence and military co-operation and civil protection contracts. '"It's unclear through the whole law who took these obligations unless there's a ratification of these contracts in the National Assembly. Indeed, fellow MPs, I hope that you will take this seriously and that in the voting day, you will take care to adopt these amendments, so that we do not come to a situation where everyone can think about who comes to a certain important state function in order to abuse it, that the executive power can do the affairs of Parliament in this way and through this law, which is absolutely inadmissible and which is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 10(3) has something that is really dangerous, which should never remain in the law and is absolutely contrary to Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "Extremely, the government can approve the participation of other defence forces in humanitarian operations that are not foreseen by the Annual Plan of Use, in the event of an immediate removal of the natural, technical and environmental disasters of larger scales, as well as the provision of assistance to civilian authorities in crisis situations." For the sake of the public, I'll read article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says "Serbian Army can be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". So there are no exceptions and there is no possibility that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do anything in this area beyond the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 12, you say, "Only members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces who have completed training in the country or abroad can be referred to in multinational operations," and so on. However, nowhere through this law is it prescribed who directs members of the military or other persons to training in a country or abroad – this must indeed be precisely defined. This, as regulated in Article 12, could mean that anyone can go under NATO's indictment to some schooling and come back here as some sort of expert being referred by someone, since the law doesn't say who, under what conditions, directs such persons to training. In Article 14 of the last position, it is interesting that you have provided for criteria for selecting and selecting members of the Serbian Army, members of the MUP, civil protection staff and staff in the authorities of the state administration who are preparing and training for participation in multinational operations and how the certification of training is issued by the competent minister. This cannot possibly be in the power of the minister, no matter who the minister is, because the minister is a civilian and the minister himself is not qualified for something like this. These criteria can only be determined by the General Staff. This is exclusively in the military's jurisdiction and cannot possibly be in charge of even the Ministry, let alone the minister! He is an interesting member of the 20th position, which says in the 2nd position: "In order to carry out multinational operations requiring joint participation by members of the Serbian Army and members of the interior ministry in order to provide assistance in crisis situations, it is completed in accordance with an agreement concluded by the defence minister and the interior minister. ''Well, I guess we have the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I guess the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in charge of something like this, not that the minister concludes some kind of agreement within a government. This is amazing. Given that the time left for our parliamentary group is near over, I don't have time to go further by members, it will, of course, be in principle debate, I just want to point out that several places in this law mention family members. For example, in his last position, Article 35 states that the costs of Article 1 and 2 of this article, i.e. in the event of death of a member of the military and other defence forces to members of the deceased's family, shall be the compensation for the actual funeral expenses. There can't be a term in the law - family members. It's got to be a term that's under the Family Law, and that's the term: "steal the members of the rope family." This doesn't just stand here, in many places it's mentioned completely inaccurately, it must certainly be precise. "Family" in the sense that it's marked here, it's a lot wider than "family rope" that has the right to do this. I'm finishing up, Madam President, just one more sentence, and it concerns the inconsistency of this law with the Labour Act. You didn't write when, after these missions, or going into multinational operations, the person who goes has to go back to work with who he left. There's still a lot of objections, we'll talk about it. I'm sorry I didn't make it all, but I hope, Minister, even though you've had a chat with your colleagues, that you've heard objections and that at least you'll give some answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27221	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude a joint search, I ask, do the presidents, or representatives of some parliamentary groups, who have not used their right to Article 93? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Velimir Ilic, first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27222	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I am very sorry that today at this meeting, as well as some of the previous days, before this break that was, we have some problems again. If we come to the session, we're being perfectly correct, Madam Chairman, and you're being correct. In one minute to twelve, on one omen, and you've already done it several times, you've given the word to those who are not the heads of the parliamentary groups, while we were already preparing to go out. He talked for a minute, then you broke up and then you left us all day to sit and wait. In fact, we were there, we were supposed to say Martinovic, Ostojić and I, right, and we were waiting to get word in front of the parliamentary groups. And who's gonna wait two minutes to two?- I'm sorry. Because there will be no time to speak, and it has been said that at two breaks of session and will continue at 15.00 hours. Don't do that anymore! It happened once that we started with a new agenda, that it also took a minute, and then after that minute, of course, we scheduled another session and what was happening, and that's very incorrect. If we want to preserve this House's dignity, let's be very correct. If we are towards you, so be you toward us. I remember, well, in the spring session when we had another minister here from the government, who came, he gave us a short opening speech, and that afternoon we adopted 15 laws from agriculture. I remember a nice discussion I had, and then I said, "Woe to the peasants after such a quick decision to adopt 15 revolutionary laws in agriculture for the morning, in principle! ''We are today adopting the same number of laws, as far as armies are concerned, relating to a common debate, and surely someone will be happy and commended when it comes out of Parliament, here, we have succeeded, you see, in the course of one day so many laws to adopt, which are extremely important to Serbia. This law on Serbia's participation in multinational forces required a serious debate, a special one, to discuss it – to hear the minister, his presentation and his guarantees, which is what is at stake, who is standing and what is it. What does "multinational forces" mean, and who are those forces? Where are the UN, where is NATO and where is who on which side? Who commands these forces? Who's calling them? Where are they used? We were listening to another minister today who gave the opening statement, you know, there was a series so he mentioned himself, there, some, Tuta Bulgarian, so I understood, when Chakalja was talking about Tutti Bulgaria, you might remember, since we are here, somewhere, a generation, so we didn't understand anything. The man read something in his beard, mumbled, finished, sat down and left, and we are now making big decisions that mean a lot to Serbia. Also, we are passing a law on two agencies that are extremely important to Serbia, just like that, the order-work, it doesn't matter, the minister didn't explain, he didn't explain, we couldn't ask, MPs discussed all day. That, of course, will be voted by most of them, as well as everything else. Let's remember again the agriculture law when the peasants were completely ruined in this season after those new laws that meant, like, a revolution, as the minister said. Here, now we're making one big set of laws again, also in a hurry. Irresponsible! To pass these kinds of laws from the People's Defence without the presence of a minister, it's really incorrect and it's humiliating for this parliament. The Minister of Commerce came here to stay, the man sat correctly and didn't answer, and he didn't comment. Whatever anyone asked, he kept it quiet. I heard a lot of discussions here today. It was said that everything had gone wrong since October 5th, and one team discussed it. And I say it's not like that! On October 5th, they were good intentions, but in this government, Rasim Ljajic is a participant on October 5th! These are some other people who came, of course, on their wings on October 5th and do whatever they want. Some of them, I remember at the late Djindjic, weren't allowed to catch the lock, the doorknob, they weren't allowed to touch. I remember perfectly when I was in Parliament discussing when the Army Minister, one, who, after an adventure even more, did not tell him such a brilliant career, I discussed and said, you know what, this one reminds me of some lady Simanu – I remember, when I was a kid we had in the neighborhood some sister persu who was acting alike. And that was my discussion in Parliament that everyone attacked. Look what happened this time with the Army, I wasn't wrong. After that, I attended a shameful ceremony, which was accompanied on all the world media, when we at the Technical and Remont Institute in Chačka, it was an authorized institution for the then Yugoslavia, destroying our own weapons that were remarkable! They came from outside, came from abroad, I was then Mayor Chacka, they invited me, I stood there watching miracles, people destroying new weapons, columns, order standing, machines bending, breaking, bending, we rejoice, champagne opening, those who came from outside opened a bottle of champagne for the first destroyed weapon. I've seen miracles too! What happened after that? During that time, the Shiplars are arming themselves with the most modern weaponry, which they get from some of them that are stretching on us as friends. We've been watching a few shows recently where it shows and shows. In the environment, everyone is arming themselves and preparing themselves most modernly, and we are destroying what the people of Serbia acquired with bloody sweat and what we used to be proud of! We also destroyed the facilities, the minors, and we destroyed this Technical and Remont Institute, the people, the best personnel we've ever had, we've pissed off like unspeakable, insubordination. Yesterday I heard a statement from a minister who was very disappointed in me, he said -- we replaced the director of "Freedom" because he was a member of New Serbia. He wasn't a member of New Serbia, he's my high school friend and a college roommate, and he's been replaced. He wasn't given any permission on the contracts he made, I know it guaranteed, because he begged here, he came, he begged, he got an export licence and he didn't get it, and now, of course, he's going to get someone else and he's going to go. Why are we suitable for exporting? Because our workers work for 82 dinars per hour on such responsible and difficult jobs, and that's why we're attractive, the world doesn't want grandmothers, there, with some risky jobs for such small money, and we're proud to do it! In the pleasure of Partizan, people worked for 82 dinars per hour, through a student cooperative. I repeat, I spoke about it yesterday. Therefore, nothing good awaits us, Mr. Minister. You can replicate to me here now, I won't even listen to you. And it's not right for me to listen to you. I didn't deserve it. I love this Serbia. I have five children living here. Do you know when I'm sick of you, Mr. Minister? When you came to the Cupside with a military helicopter, with all the cobras. Well, no one will come, you eat cabbage, your father-in-law sings, and you can do a little soloing, you could also play, and no one would touch you, I guarantee. But it's not nice, suddenly something's getting dark out of the sky, some start falling out, chasing. What's going on? The Minister of Defense is on his way. You trained someone maybe. Is that right? That's when I saw it was time to go home, so we who didn't pick up for that variant picked up and left, of course. She knows Natasha, it's over there in her neighborhood. Isn't that right, Natasha? Natasha's from that neighborhood, she knows it well. Therefore, we have passed these laws today, we have passed a series of laws today that may disappoint many in Serbia. The participation of our children somewhere on the battlefields, I remember the speech of Zoran Zivkovic in the government when he was prime minister, when he asked to go to some battlefields, gave no god that we had left – many mothers would cry about it. We will create many problems for ourselves, and we have not defined anything, because our Constitution is clear and loud, our congregation decisions are clear and loud – that we are a military neutral country. We've had enough wars, we've fought! A lot has been killed in this Serbia, bombed, broken down, and we will feel the consequences of these war destructions for centuries! Why would our children go to other countries to share that accident with others?- I'm sorry. I remember well NATO bombs, and then the military top of me as the president of the municipality ordered me to go report to families whose sons were killed, to get a flyer. I remember those were the hardest days of life, when they came down, and we had to report to the families, and there was a dream behind us if someone passed out, it was hard for them to go on. That was a creepy time. We shouldn't be experimenting with these people right now. We shouldn't talk too much about that NATO, they're still fresh. In my community children die of leukemia and cancer in primary school, and let them die in kindergarten! Our emissary, sitting next to me, treated her son with cancer, in elementary school. A lot of people did it because it was evil that made NATO bombing. And we, many of the participants, who were building after the bombing, were building these factories that you're now talking about, which were leveled with the ground, we had a lot of health interventions, operations and consequences of all this. Mr. Minister, you weren't active at the time, you were holding a bar and enjoying yourself, I'm sure you had a good time. I remind you, gentlemen of the People's MPs, think hard before you vote this whole thing and accept it like this, blanco, for what it's worth. This is about a serious country that has a tradition that has roots and has origins. Generations have died for this country, gentlemen. Our greatest honor was to send your son into the army. And I'm waiting that day as the happiest day, and all the Serbs were looking forward to it, regardless, and in wartime conditions, they were being sent away, not like now. Mr. Minister, I don't remember seeing a soldier, and I travel through Serbia every day. Every night I go through a certain relationship through the Woodland. I haven't seen a soldier in Shumadia. Tell me where I'm going to take my son to take a picture with a soldier. I've never seen him in person. Maybe I'm not paying attention, I'm not going into some bumps, some corners, I'm not hanging around the border, but I don't know where there's soldiers to see, where the nearest destination can see soldiers in person. We used to watch them, thank God, we were proud of them, and now they're gone. I don't know if one of you gentlemen is seeing the Army somewhere.- I'm sorry. It's an invisible army. I've seen these in civilian service, though. It is a disgrace and a shame for Serbia and many young people are ashamed. No wonder today we talk about problems among young people when our old ones always spoke – The Army was one of the largest schools and the greatest college for everyone and students and for every citizen. The army was a turning point in the life of a young man – after the army it was a completely different man, with other obligations and other goals. I know that the goal of many weak Serbia is. Serbia is getting weaker every day, military, economic. Serbia has been quarreled more and more every day, not to repeat how much the Serbian economy owes. Serbia is struggling to survive. Serbia has been so quarreled, we have never had so many attacks on the Serbian Orthodox Church from various institutions that someone has put on the outside and we have never had so many problems. Here came some ministers who sat in government and announced the biggest affairs in the army – they will clear up. "It was shaking up, the mouse was born," nothing! Nobody touched or cleared anything! So, seriously, Mr. Minister, say a few words about these topics. Don't rephrase to me now, I don't need you to replicate anything. It's all clear to me! It's clear to me what their intentions are, when I see people coming to certain functions. I understand the strategy that's happening on the outside and I listen to you and many who have been attacking some military leaders for days, who have left, have been replaced. I remember one night when 57 highest-ranking officers were replaced, when she was the cleaning lady on VMA, during the night, and everything else, when it was cleaned up, those crisis headquarters, when they flew into military factories, they were being replaced. We've barely saved a few. Thank God we kept them till today. But some have been destroyed. Mr. Minister, I didn't hear you, Serbia is a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement for Serbs in Republika Srpska. After these events in BiH, I didn't hear you say what kind of guarantee we are, and what do we guarantee Serbs in Republika Srpska? We're guaranteed, I repeat, the Dayton Agreement. Is the Dayton still in place or not? If it's all right, we as a guarantee, we didn't speak one word to that people there. Is there anyone who can say anything, say anything, let's hear it? I was listening here today to some MP groups who said this was too brave, that they were brave, that they needed to enter into reforms. They lead us bravely, a representative of G17 plus nine years in the area of finance, macro-economy, and here's where they brought us. Don't let them guide us anymore, because their courage has cost Serbia much! The less they do, the better for us. When I hear they're doing something, having some activity, I say, it's hard for us! When I hear they're doing nothing, I'm overjoyed. Believe me, that's the thing. There was a discussion here today that we would be the strongest military force in the region. The man spoke, he didn't even blink – we'll be the strongest military force in the region. Hope, I don't know, for equality, peace and so forth and so forth. I remember when some of them said the same thing -- Milosevic is a factor of stability in the Balkans, and then, after that, there's none of it, they destroyed a man and so on. So don't trust them too much. Let's do something for Serbia, make a real army, measure this people. We know that the army needs to be equipped, that it takes a lot of money, gentlemen. That there should be a strong economy and a strong economy in the country. We know that the budget is now charged from the loan, that everything is done from the loan. We're so in debt that we don't know where we're going or what we're going to do, how we're going to pay it back, if the economy is more in charge than the state. At this point, Serbia's economy is more in charge than Serbia's state! They're here somewhere, but one billion more. (President: Time. Therefore, and the village has failed, do not hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27223	Time, Mr. Ilich. It's been 20 minutes, thank you. Mr. Ilich, I will give the word to the Minister. I must say that you used an entirely inappropriate term, when you were talking about holding a session, that the session was conducted "mangupa". I must tell you that the leadership session is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, at twenty to two there were no more interested heads of Parliament for a word, and your time is up to two hours and Mrs. Comic gave her word to Mr. Sasa Dujovic. Therefore, we had a real obligation to have a session with the Rules of Procedure until 1400 hours. The word is Mr. Dragan Sutanovac, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27224	Dear Mr. Ilic, I'm not sick of you. You're even sweet to me, even when you were talking about your colleagues not stealing, but stealing, I realized you didn't mean it. I know that some Chacans will resent me for answering you today, that they will say – let him go, he can't repeat what he said. But you insulted me. You insulted me the first time you said I came in on a helicopter on a commission, which is not true. It'll be confirmed by your countrymen from Chačka and the Dark Ones. You insulted me the same way when you said I said Ljujic was a member of New Serbia. I never said that, but I said you were a member of the Communist Union. I'm behind it. You were even the Secretary of the Communist Union in Chačka, am I right? So it has nothing to do with Ljuic or New Serbia. I know you said it on TV, and I liked it when you didn't have a brother. I know you've brought a lot of things out in public. I've always liked that. I've never had enough of you, even though this discussion of yours was below every level, you'll never get sick of me. No matter how hard you try, you'll be as sweet to me as Velya from Chaka, whatever you say about me or my family, family, the Darklings, or I don't know who you're all talking about today. However, what's more important than this is not my fault that the laws here come together by 10, 15, or six or eight laws, I'm prepared to separate all the time of this world, to personally explain to you what these laws mean to you, to explain to you. Come to the Ministry whenever you want, let me explain to you how the defence industry works today, what the results are today, what they were like two years ago. As it's possible for some changes to speed up the operation, we can bring some money to the companies. How it's possible not to destroy the weapon anymore. On the contrary, it is produced and sold. Is that something in my term or in your term of office, whether the military was shrinking in your term or in my term of office and whether the military is professionalising in my or your term of office. You're right when you say you can't see a member of the Serbian Army in Serbia today, and that's an inheritance that is politically much older than you and I. It is an inheritance from 1991 or 1992, when a decision was made that members of the then-JNA do not go in uniform around the city. Believe me, we're working hard at the Department of Defense to get our uniforms back into town. Because if we go in the direction of professionalization, you're right, we won't have anywhere to see, we won't have a date, we won't have a party. The army will be very alienated from the people, and that's not our wish. We want the army to be a part of the people, that the army suffers what the people suffers, that the army may be on the poverty of the homeland, however archaic it sounds, but that's true. We want to be a regional leader. If others tell us that, if ten ambassadors are gathered on our military exercises today, all military envoys, if a delegation from BiH, Chief of Staff, Deputy Chief of Staff from Montenegro, High Delegations from Turkey, if we have a drill with Romania in the same day, I do not see why you would disrespect our defence system and our Army. It's not as bad as you'd like it to be, or how you want to show it. You can only find out if you want to come to us. I say again - welcome. Whatever you think of me, the Ministry of Defense and your ministry, you're an MP, you can come and get information. We will inform you of everything: whether I have served the Army, whether my associates are, in particular, all of the Serbian Army's reserve officers here, whether they participated in the war, whether they are honorable people or not. And you, and the others who've had some grudges here, can all come to the Ministry and get information and make everything clear to them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27225	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Ilicu, what's the basis of the call, I'm sorry? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27226	You see, you're very misinformed about some things. I also know who your advisor is, and this counselor of yours in Chačka, when you get here, and I'm very surprised, your great expert, strategist, he's just a country accordionist who played "smooth." Well, since you don't know, and maybe you do, maybe you've been to "smoking," he's not some level that he can give you real information. You must find some people who are much more informed when you come to give you some information. Well, it is your great friend, who you've kissed so much, hugged and boasted about, so to speak, it's been a little awkward and watching it so much in some places. So...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27227	Mr. Ilichu, use appropriate terms, please. Don't call it "grabbing" or anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27228	Excuse me, Mr. Minister. There's no point in discussing and talking like that. My discussion was very serious. I warned you both yesterday and today about some very serious problems, not private ones, I have nothing against you personally, and I like you a nice and kind man. I'm telling you it's a difficult situation. Maybe they're lying to you in the environment. Come on, once you're in the mood, there's some other people in the Army who don't think the same way you do in your environment. I see some have gone very disappointed, and many have done for Serbia, for the military, many have done in the wars. I'd like you to see them sometime, have coffee with them, hear them. I'll be so glad. You may change your mind, Mr. Minister. And I was once in error, when you inform me and say – great, everyone taps you, and tomorrow when you are not in that place you will hear many who will tell you many other opinions. And you'll see, I'm afraid it's not too late for the Army, because when these laws are passed, it's too late. - As you announce the Statute of the Vojvodina, when it is passed it will be too late if it is not fixed, and something bad cannot be fixed with amendments. I'd be delighted if we had the best army and I'd be proud of it. And to be the strongest in the environment, that everyone respects us and appreciates us. But believe me, what do you think you're flying with, what does JAT think he's flying with? I know that condition very well. He's got to invest, he's got no money. In my life, I felt the most miserable when I looked at some people who thought like you and were in the stars, when they bombed us and we watched... And then we shot them...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27229	Mr. Ilichu, it's been three minutes. The word is Mr. Martinović Alexander.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in his "Phelosophy of History", Hegel, among other things, wrote that human history is not a land of happiness and that the periods of happiness in it are empty leaves. I think it is a great accident for Serbia and this parliament to explain these bill proposals to a man who, at the very least, had to resign because of everything that happened in Serbia's military this year, but also in earlier years. Let me remind you of some facts. Since the DOS took over power in Serbia, in an unconstitutional and illegal manner in 2000, a black series of accidents in Serbia's military air force has been recorded. At the end of October 2000, in the vicinity of the Airport in Golubovci near Podgorica, one Super seagull G4 was lost, but two pilots were saved by jumping out. During 2001, there was no crash of military aircraft, but the black series continued in 2002, when a "Gazala" helicopter was lost around Nis, whose two crew members managed to survive. Another Utva 75 was damaged during an emergency landing in the vicinity of Brodjevci near Kraljev, on 11 October 2003, and two crew members were injured. On the last day of December of the same year, the centre of Kragujevac fell "Gazela" which was scheduled to participate in the New Year's marking programme for about 500 children from kindergartens and schools in the city. Only great luck was avoided tragedy, and two crew members, a cameraman, a man costumed in Santa Claus and one child, who were in a helicopter, went through with minor and severe injuries. In 2004 and 2005, one Utva 75 and a Gazela helicopter were lost, whose crew survived, while there were no accidents in 2006 and 2007. In 2008, the Serbian Army lost two planes and one pilot. On May 21st, in the vicinity of the village of Baranda in the municipality of Opovo, Major Thomas Janik jumped out of the Eagle plane during an emergency flight, and on September 24th at Batajnica Airport, Lieutenant Colonel Istvan Canas was killed, preparing to take part in the flight's "G4". Finally, in July 2009, the pilot Rade Rangelovic and soldier Milan Ulemek died in Batajnica. In Japan, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when a train enters a Tokyo station later than expected, the minister of traffic resigns. In Serbia, soldiers die year after year, officers die and absolutely no defence minister since the DOS took power has found it appropriate to resign as a moral act. Since my colleagues talked about other bill proposals, I'm going to say something about the Bill on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency. Although colleagues from the ruling coalition praised these bill proposals, as if they were written by security and law experts, you will see that it is not true at all. In Article 2. VBA and VOA have been defined as management bodies within the Ministry of Defence. The promoter boasts that they intended to form some kind of unique security structure system in the Republic of Serbia. If something is a system, it has to possess an identical legal nature. What is the legal nature of VBA and Voa? In the opinion of the motionor's representative, according to the government, these should be the authorities of the administration as part of the Ministry of Defence. And look what BIA is. BIA, the 2002 Security Information Agency Act, was defined as a special organisation. The question now arises which, allegedly a single system of security-intelligence structures in the Republic of Serbia, and therefore these institutions have a different legal nature, so BIA is a special organisation and VBA and VOA are the authorities of the defence ministry. Another question is now asked: What are the authorities of the administration that do not carry out administrative work? If you look at article 6. The bill of law and a member who regulates the powers, tasks and tasks of the VOA, you will see that there is literally not one single administrative job these two bodies are doing. Something's the authority of the administration, not doing administrative work. Every student who studies any law school knows that the management body is the state body that does administrative work. We now have something that has absolutely nowhere in the world, that there are government bodies that don't do administrative work. If you get me any administrative work, say, from Article 6. Bill of law, I'm ready to take back everything I've said. Furthermore, Article 3 says that VBA and VOA are political, ideological and interestingly neutral. '"I really don't understand this provision. Now the question is: is patriotism an ideology? Yes, it is. This means that VBA and VOA must not be patriotically oriented, because their task is to be ideologically neutral. And that they should be ideologically defined, to be people who have deep patriotic beliefs and who will put all their professional potentials in the service of the state of Serbia and its citizens. I can't imagine which member of the VBA is ideologically neutral. So he doesn't care if he works for Serbia, for the United States or whether he works for the NATO Pact. What does "interestly neutral" mean? I suppose it is an interest of the members of these two agencies to defend the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, to protect our country's defence system. It's their primary interest. And now you're saying that the members of these two agencies are particularly neutral. If they're interestingly neutral, if they're ideologically neutral, well, what do we need these agencies for? Then they'd better not exist. Perhaps you wanted to say something else – that they should not be classified as any political party. Then you should have written it like that. Therefore, no member, including VBA and VOA, should be members of political parties. They should be neutral compared to political parties, they must not be neutral compared to the state, compared to the citizens, in relation to the interests of the country. Article 6, where the jobs and tasks of the VBA are defined, says the VBA, among other things, reveals, monitors and prevents internal and international terrorism, extremism and other forms of organised violence directed against the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. Now the question is asked – and what is extremism? For example, extremism is when a member of the alleged civil democratic NGO sector says there is still a vacant place for the first civilized man in the Patriarchy of the Serbian Orthodox Church. For me, extremism is, for example, Peter Lukovic's statements, for me, extremism is what Sonja Licht does, what she does. If you say you're going to fight such phenomena, here, I'm willing to back it up, but I'm afraid under the extremism that you will treat only your political insolents and that they will return to Serbia in 1948 and leather coats, secret recording, secret tracking and appearances like father spying on the son, son of a father, brother and so on. Speaking of extremism, Mr. Minister, let me inform you of an unkind event that took place in the Vrbas municipality. A national MP who moved from the SRS to this new MP club, Igor Becic, attacked SRS activists while in Vrbas they wanted to place billboards that read: “The SNS vote is the DS vote”! He physically attacked those people. The police are here. He started calling for his immunity and threatening to the police if they didn't meet his orders that everyone would lose their job at the Home Office. Otherwise, it is a member of a party that says it is fighting for normal and decent Serbia. Those who fight for normal and decent Serbia in Vrbas, somewhere, about 20 days ago, attacked one SRS activist again, but he was not a Serb but Hungarian, Stevan Balog, and inflicted physical injuries on him. If by extremes you mean these kinds of phenomena, then, Mr. Minister, I'm prepared to support you in that, but I'm afraid that you, under the extremism, really mean those who don't think the same way you or those who don't think the same way the NATO Pact in Mons thinks. Then, in Article 6, you say the VBA reveals and investigates and documents the crimes of the anti-constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, crimes against humanity and so on. What does that mean now? The VBA is no longer an authority dealing with intelligence and counterintelligence, but the VBA is police, and VBA is a public prosecutor's office. It's the opposite of the RS Constitution. It's completely contrary to the Code of Criminal Procedure. What is the right of the VBA to take charge of the police and the public prosecutor's office? Is that a democratic right? Is that consistent with European fluids? Absolutely not. Such a provision is contrary to the Constitution, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and in practice can lead to numerous abuses. In Article 7, you say that the VBA collects data from state authorities, organisations and services, autonomous provinces, local self-government units and organisations that exercise public authority. Now let me remind you, Mr. Minister, when the Law on State Administration was passed, it was announced as a miracle unseen, that it was European law, reform law, in line with the principles of the OSCE and so on. There, for the authorities of autonomous provinces, local self-government units and organisations that exercise public authority, a summary name is used – public authorities. Wu, you're not using that term right now. Do you think the State Administration Act isn't good or is it something else? There's no system again. You say you're for a single security system. You're not! You don't even respect the laws that apply in this country. There is no system if this system is broken, if different terminology is used and essentially the same institution has a different legal nature. In Article 14, where specific procedures and measures are defined, when'special procedures and measures' are said, it means permanent methods, listening, monitoring, opening letters, etc., all of this can be done on the basis of a written and reasoned order, imagine, Supreme Cassation Court. Imagine, this body does not exist, you say, that the law enters into force within 8 days of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". If you take a law that regulates the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court, you will see that it has the sole authority to annul the judgments of the lower courts. What does it have to do with repealing the judgments of the lower courts by giving orders to take measures that fall under covert monitoring, secret obtaining documents and cases, secret insight into personal data records, covert electronic surveillance, etc. What does the Supreme Court have to do with all this stuff? It has absolutely nothing to do with it. Who's supposed to do that? Well, if one court instance is to approve of the application of special measures and procedures, I suppose it should be the Constitutional Court. I guess the Constitutional Court is the Supreme Protector of Human Freedoms in Serbia. When you have no one left to speak to, the Constitution gives you the right to file a constitutional appeal and to seek the protection of your right before the Constitutional Court. When it comes to special procedures and measures and how human rights and freedoms are violated. You know that very well. Instead of saying that the Constitutional Court is in charge, you say that it is a competent institution that has not yet lived in Serbia. In Article 23, Mr. Minister, since you talked about terminology, it is said that the authorized official of the VBA performs one of the actions you called "observation". As far as I know in Serbian, it's called tracking. Correct me if I'm wrong. I don't understand why you use foreign terms when you have quite enough home words for these phenomena. Today you have said one word: "proliferation" and use that term in this bill as well. Do you know what a proliferation is? Take the Lexicon of foreign words and expressions of Milan Vujaklia, there you will find that the term proliferation is used only in biology and botany. In biology, it means multiplying cells by dividing, and in the botanium, it appears that the bud pops up in some part of the plant where it's not usual. Now, if you tell me this has to do with the VBA law, I'm ready to withdraw everything I've said. Now I'm going to do something about civilian control, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It says – special procedures and measures shall be taken on the basis of the orders of the Director of the VOA or of the persons authorised by it. The application of special procedures and measures shall be governed by the defence minister, on a proposal from the Director of the VOA, with the opinion of the National Security Council. Practically, all regarding special measures and procedures, which are: covert monitoring, recording, listening, reading other people's letters, etc., everything remains within the Ministry of Defence. What government?- I'm sorry. What National Assembly?- I'm sorry. What Security Committee?- I'm sorry. That's what the Ministry decides, not even the Ministry, but one man, the Secretary of Defense. If this is civilian control, which you allegedly fought for on October 5, 2000, then I don't know what the term civil security control means. In Article 31, it says – if VBA or VOA comes into possession of data, information from other security services is required to provide them with that data. If the data and information are not of the responsibility of the Security Service, the VBA or the VOA shall immediately destroy them within 30 days, on which the Commission will draw up a record. I ask you, Mr. Minister, how are you going to destroy something that has been orally spoken to you? How are you going to destroy something you came up with based on direct knowledge? You saw it with your own eyes. How do you plan to destroy that? You should have said, I guess, when it comes to information that has written form. It's impossible to destroy something that you've been told orally. It's just physically impossible. There's something else about civilian control. In Article 34, you say – VBA and VOA regularly, as appropriate and upon request, supply the necessary information and evaluations of the importance of defence, beware of whom, President of the Republic, Minister of Defence and Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army. There is no mention of the National Assembly, its competent working body, the Committee for the Defence and Security of the National Assembly. There's not a single word here, a single letter about civilian control of the military. There's no parliamentary control of military security services. She's absolutely gone! You've prescribed that by law. The National Assembly has nothing for you to interfere with how VBA and VOA function. It's a matter of the President of the Republic, one man, the Secretary of Defense, another man and Chief of Staff, third man. The People's Messengers have nothing to look for. One provision, Mr. Minister, believe me, which is funny, in article 38 you say – VBA director, or VOA director solves in administrative matters for members of the agency. This is where the lawyers sit. I respect the fact that you're not a lawyer, but I believe you have lawyers at the Department of Defense. What does this mean? A member of VBA or VOA submits a request for a building permit, it's a administrative matter, it's an administrative business, who issues a building permit? According to you, Director of the VBA. So he settles in administrative matters for members of the agency. Where is it in the world? You have no idea what the bill says. So when a member of the VBA needs a building permit, he doesn't go to the city or the municipality where he lives to look for the competent department, no, contact the director of the VBA. When he needs a passport, it's a administrative matter again, he talks to the director of the VBA. When he needs a child's allowance, because that's the administrative thing, he's talking to his director again. That, Mr. Minister, is nowhere in the world. And if you want to save the dignity of both your own and the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, including these agencies, please delete this point, it's pointless, it's ridiculous. Anyone who in practice implements this bill, or law, since you are likely to vote it, is likely to get baptized. Now, in article 48, you are returning to the practice of the hated Slobodan Milosevic. Listen, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, you were once accused of being left behind by your party of being the rest of the dark, totalitarian times. They accused Slobodan Milosevic of having lawyers, judges, prosecutors in his day, of setting up criminal proceedings, of getting rid of people who were supposed to be convicted, etc. Now look at what it says in Article 48: ''If a criminal case is initiated against a member or former member of the VBA, i.e. the VOA or persons with whom a secret co-operation with the VBA or the VOA is established, unless criminal proceedings are initiated on the basis of criminal charges of the VBA or the VOA. '"What does that mean? The VBA has its lawyers. So, you keep up the 90s practice and you indirectly admit that VBA has its own lawyers -- you start the procedure, you can't get the lawyer you want, but the one we advise, the one we propose, and of course, we're going to propose to you your man. Further, risk insurance. VBA and VOA may contract life insurance, death insurance or loss of work capacity for their members, in accordance with the risks involved in performing the service. This is fine, but then you had to define a way to protect the data of those individuals that are being provided. Thank you, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27231	Mr. Martinovic, thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by Mr Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27232	Can I speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27233	I can't give you my word, Mr. Nikolic, you have to have a card and you have to register, I'm sorry. I've made consultations in the presidency. It's a unique view that it's impossible. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank all the debaters and to express great satisfaction that it is obvious that these laws will receive support in the Serbian Parliament and that vast majority. What I wanted in the end to only comment on, if you allow me, and it concerns a personal sense of responsibility, that the position in which I am wearing a certain responsibility that is not suitable for some other ministries and that, believe me, in a certain way, personally affects me. When a fellow MP counted all the accidents that happened eight years ago, talking about Kansas, Arangelovic, I expected you to at least get out of your piety to those people, not speak from a place that is not appropriate. You compared the army of Serbia and the railroad of Japan, compared the death of a pilot with a 10-second delay in Tokyo. At the very least – inappropriate, at the very least – sad! And believe me, I know you didn't mean anything by it, but simply, you want to attack and you don't have any system of values in which you would have called for the minister to resign if there was an emergency, as happened in the Serbian Army, to the accident, both this and last year. What Serbian citizens must and should know, in the past year, according to the data I have, eight pilots in the world have died and more who have been transported by helicopters. Unfortunately, it happens in all the armies of the world. Recently, a pilot of the French Air Force, who flew to Rafal, was killed with a 5,000-hour crash, and I wish you had the courage to comment and crash two planes of the Russian acro-group when the head of the acro-group who has thousands of hours of impact died. It's tragic that you consider patriotism to be an ideology. Patriotism is a positive feeling compared to country. I teach my sons to love their country, to be patriots, and patriotism is like the ideology of absolute negativity of positive feelings, because it can even go to Nazism. Those whose patriotism was the only ideology, they laughed in their parliaments like you, and then burned their parliaments. Patriotism, the way we see it, is a healthy, beautiful, positive sense of responsibility for your country and love for your people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27235	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Martinovic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really had no intention, nor was it in my head to mock anyone's death in Serbia. I did not compare the pilot's death with the train delays, but compared the ministers' morals in Japan and the ministers' morals in Serbia. There, the minister resigned for a far more benign phenomenon than the death of a pilot. So I compared the ministers, not the death of the pilot and the delay of the train. What is patriotism, Mr. Sutanovac, and yet again I respect the fact that you are not a lawyer and that you have little understanding of social sciences? Patriotism is another word for nationalism. If you take any political encyclopedia anywhere in the West, you'll see that nationalism is the same as patriotism and that it's a couple of ideological phenomena. Now, what ideology is, Mr. Sutanovac, about it was written by Dr. Vojislav Seselj, "The Ideology of Serbian Nationalism". Well, since you don't understand ideologies, and since you don't understand what ideology is, here we in the SRS are ready to give you this probably the most valuable piece of life for the president of the SRS Vojislav Seselj. [[Applause]] (Employees get out of the O.R.: read, read! Give it up. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-07-0.u27237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I conclude the principle of the search on: the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Military, Labour and Material Obligation, the Proposal for a Law on Civil Service, the Proposal for a Law on the Application of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency. Thank you for your cooperation. Tomorrow's work starts at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235? Yeah. ) Mr Vladan Batić.
