ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34457	I would like to ask a question and ask for information about the election of judges in Kosovo and Metohija, which was carried out a few days ago, which, in fact, by its effects, has made a cleanup between judges in Kosovo and Metohija. Some judges who have long done the job have not been elected in the knowledge of the conditions in Kosovo and Metohija, and some others have been elected, who have very suspicious qualifications to perform such a duty. Six judges who have done their job in the most difficult conditions in the southern Serbian province, including the President of the District Court, a man who has 30 years of judicial training, the president of the Municipal Court, Ms. Branko Semonov, who is 25 years old, has also not been elected. Instead, some judges who either don't live in Kosovo and Metohija have been elected, which has been checked out, or have so far been working on the Kosovo judiciary, i.e. in the judiciary of an 'independent Kosovo'. There's a lot of cases like that. Among the judges from Leposavic, and four were elected, the three worked for the judicial system of 'independent Kosovo'. Then, from judges from Vučitrn, Vitina and Gjilan, nine were elected, the largest number does not live in Kosovo and Metohija. In this election, there was a lot of nepotism and all sorts of other things. I have all my names, and now I wouldn't hold you back. I mean, this is an extremely inappropriate act for a sensitive territory, for a sensitive part of Serbia. It is also known that Unmik is earlier, and today EULEX is trying these courts and judges to gradually engage in its judicial system, and then later in the judicial system of 'independent Kosovo'. The process has been going on for months and I fear this and this choice of judges is the introduction to this new situation in Kosovo and Metohija. It should also be noted that judges who have not been elected are all from Mitrovica. There's actually a cleanup. I would just like to remind you of 17 March 2008, when all the judges from Mitrovica were 32, and the administrative staff of the Court were arrested that morning and taken to Pristina. On that day, the people of Mitrovica rebelled, and there was a riot, as you remember. One Ukrainian soldier died and there were many injured people. The intervention of our organs and the agreement with the Unmika representatives calmed down. Judges were returned from prison in Pristina that same afternoon. Among them was Mrs. Branko Semonov, who was actually at the head of this resistance by the judges. If you remember, a few days earlier, before 17 March 2008, they entered the court building in Mitrovica to seek to do their job, to judge Serbia's laws and regulate their powers with Serbia. So it was their fight. Some of them are likely to be punished today for setting themselves up like that. First of all, the President of the District Court and the President of the Municipal Court. They were not chosen, as well as four of their colleagues, who were not also elected. This really was an unprecedented move. Kosovo could not be operated in the same way as the rest of Serbia. If judges are elected and some are not selected, it is a matter of concrete analysis of why some are chosen and why some are not. In Kosovo and Metohija, all judges who did their job had to be elected. In addition, several months ago, the justice minister and the State Secretary of Human Rights were there to discuss these problems, and they then promised judges that when the judge's election came, all judges would remain in their seats. So my question is and I'm asking for a notice -- why isn't it done like that and why did it happen, as I said, making cleanups between judges in Kosovo and Metohija courts?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34458	I would like to inform the National Assembly that the authorised representative for the LDP parliamentary group is member of the 235th National MP Zoran Ostojic, who wants a word. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34459	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, colleagues and colleagues. My question was addressed to the president of the Assembly, whom I expected to find as chairman, and I was challenged by one of her statements last night. Because of the citizens watching, I'll remind you. All MPs of the opposition recently asked for a final account and a report from the State Auditing Institution for the 2008 budget to be placed on the agenda before the debate on the budget. The president of the assembly rejected it by justifying some kind of business reasons, so she reiterated it last night in a statement to the media. I remind you that it is a day since we have proposed to put this on the agenda and to vote on it in some "smuggling" part of the DS and the unbelieving Tom proposed putting on the agenda changes and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties. So, the day after we suggested, that's what you gentlemen voted on. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic suggested putting on the agenda. Since we are expected to discuss budget rebalancing, I am really asking Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic – when will she stop misleading the public? We insist that the State Audit Institute report be put on the agenda. She said yesterday he was incomplete. What does that mean? Why is it incomplete? We should discuss this in the Assembly, why DRI does not have the capacity to audit all ministries, all local self-government, all public enterprises. Let's remember what happened at NIS with the audit and what was going on. We insist that the DRI enter political parties and see how money from the budget is spent, we invite them to come to the LDP first, but Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic says - can't be done in March. That's not true. It can be put in session before March, an emergency session can be scheduled after New Year's Eve. So, I'm just asking the President of the Assembly not to have a double archaic. When someone makes a deal and gets in after our proposal, then they can, and we, all the MPs of the opposition, say we're too late. Gentlemen, we've filed or we're going to file for the candidacy today. It is not the essence of European integration to fund European integration. It's not the essence of form, it's the content. The content is to see how people's money is spent. An audit institution is responsible for this in all normal countries. We've had it with severe birth problems, but it's as if someone cares that it's just a form. We insist that this is being discussed and we insist that the DRI enter political parties. I repeat, let it come first to the LDP, and then to everyone who spends money from the budget, we'll see how someone who spends money from the budget barely puts an end to the end, and someone who's not on the budget is crumbling and spending millions of euros in the local election campaign. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic needs to answer my question why she deceives the public that it cannot be put on the agenda. She even said one weird sentence, that it was incomplete. What does that mean? What the DRI did, that 27% she recorded, and she discovered a number of irregularities, no matter how much the Prime Minister says they're guilty of accounting, it's nothing to anyone. Since it's not complete, those who spent money past the law, who didn't respect public procurement, we're going to skip it, so when it's 100%, and it's going to be on "the world never," then we're going to take it seriously. I don't think that's right, and I don't think that this government is showing much of a full capacity to really lead an honest country towards the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34460	Thank you. Before we continue our work, allow me to inform you that part of our session today, starting at 10.00 hours, from the Grand Hall gallery of the National Assembly will be followed by a group of students from the New Sad secondary schools, members of the student parliament, who are now visiting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. These are: from Gimnasium "Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj" in Novi Sad - Nemanja Predojević, Budimir Ćirić, Nevena Đokić, Ilija Orlović, Emilia Jocic, Nikola Vukić and Jovana Milić; from Gimnasium "Isidora Sekulić" - Anja Šušak, Aleksandar Simurdić, Jelena Malešević and Milan Milosavljevic; from Gymnastics "Svetozar Marković" - Bajazit Pomak; from Gimnasium "Laza Kostić" - Nadja Balać; from Elektro-škole - Djordje Lukač; from the Medical School - Milos Dejanović; from the Ballet School - Marijana Penović; from the Technical School - Dragoslav Dimitrijević and Marko Kovač and from the Transport School - Marko Krtinić and Dragana Čirić. Welcome to your house, to your parliament, members of the student parliament. Does MP Zoran Ostojić want me to give him an answer, since I am obliged to do so because I am chairman? Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, does not deceive the public in giving reasons on the course of the review of the DRI report and the conclusions of the National Assembly Finance Committee. In order to be able to propose acts on the agenda within a business period, they must have an emergency procedure, which the Financial Committee has not had, unlike the amendment and addition of the Law on the financing of political parties, which has fulfilled that business obligation. The will of the majority of the National Assembly is not put on the agenda and will not be debated. So there's no deception to the public. There is a full and strict application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which clearly defines under whatever conditions and within which time limits any act may be put on the agenda, be referred to the Assembly and considered. It's my duty to say that, for the sake of respect for the procedure. So there's no deception... I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. The chairman, whoever he is, is obliged to give an answer regarding the work of the Assembly, or procedure in place, and I am only giving an answer to the procedure. So, the truth is that the duped public is about the procedure of putting it on the agenda. National MP Zoran Ostojić throws - Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, which I refer you to, clearly states that when MPs or members of 235 are held, there is no call for violations of the Rules of Procedure, no replicas, but only parliamentary questions are asked. The Rules of Procedure also make it clear in Article 104 that MPs are not allowed to earn neither to fellow MPs nor to the chairman, and that the chairman is obliged to warn of the respect of the Rules of Procedure, and after warning of the measures. So if we all read the Rules of Procedure a little bit more, everyone's better. Thank you. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34461	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, since I believe most of them know what I'm going to ask, because I have given my word and I have the honour of not giving up, so I won't give up, I ask the first Presidency of the Assembly what it will do to respect the rights of MPs here. What's this about? It's about today's agenda, budget rebalance, budget, money. Since the people ask where the money is, I have asked some people in very responsible positions for some money that is turning away from the reach and eyes of Serbian citizens, so some have responded within the legal deadline and some have not. Aleksandar Tijanic, Director of Public Service, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic and the present Minister Diana Dragutinovic did not respond. I want to inform the public and fellow MPs. Since they did not receive the papers that I received, I will ask for help from the Serbian Parliament, and if I do not have that help, I will copy all the materials that I have received and give to all my fellow Members who are participating, working or not working in this assembly, so that they will take responsibility with me for what I ask. It's about money from a public company called Telekom. There is one black triangle: Telekom - Shaper - Public Service. That's where hundreds of millions of dinars were swallowed. I've got all these papers on me and I'm waiting for the state authorities to do something about it, to start doing something. I ask the Presidency of the Assembly for a notice – how will it force these people who will not respond to me to deliver the notices I have asked for? When it comes to the Public Service, they do not (see from the papers I received) have an advertising agreement with Telekom, but have about Srdjan Shaper, so I wonder what prevented Telekom from making direct contracts with a branding, advertising with the Public Service. I would like to remind those responsible for the Public Service that they are the service of Serbian citizens, not the ruling coalition (as they have been acting lately, especially on information shows), that TV subscription is paid by all Serbian citizens (and I, above all, speak for them), and those who do not like how the ruling coalition works. So, I ask the presidency to plead and say what it will do to make Mr. Tianic respond. Indirectly, Mr. Radyuko, director of Telekom, answered me, and now I have about a dozen pounds of paper. I think that if the citizens of Serbia had a chance to read those contracts, they would be baptized with both their left and right hands. I remind you, it happens in a country where 500,000 people are hungry (it's a new data from last night). In one contract, Srdjan Shaper undertakes to pay a million dinars for humanitarian purposes. And if you were to see other numbers and annexes, where almost every 30, 40, 50 million each, and each annex is the same word to word, then this new judiciary that's chosen as elected and the prosecutor should do something about it. I got answers from all those organs that they're practically doing nothing. As we can see from yesterday's statements, the director of Telekom says he will no longer fund the Red Star and Partizan if they don't behave the way he thinks they should behave. My question is, Master, and who authorized you in the first place? It's the money of Serbian citizens. Who did you even ask to help anyone other than your actions? As a result, last year, the price of Telekom services increased by 63% to Serbian citizens, with the same public company showing a profit of 80m euros. Then why are the prices raised for the citizens? I have reason to believe that this price difference, which was unfounded for Serbian citizens, has become in private pockets. I say, I doubt it. So I'm asking you again to get an answer. Tijanic did not respond to me, Mirko Cvetkovic did not respond, Diana Dragutinovic did not respond. The others answered. Whether I like those answers or not, they respected the form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34462	The word has an MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just over a month ago I raised the issue of consulting the mafia in Serbia. I received an answer from the interior ministry that they have no knowledge and information that would suggest that such a mafia exists in Serbia. But either they didn't want to look at any data related to the companies involved in this business, or they simply had a warrant not to do it. Among other things, I asked Morgan Stanley, who privatised the Nis industry in 2003 and took about 10m euros for it at the time. I cited that I failed to find this company at the Business Registers Agency, and by law such a firm could not operate in Serbia. Let me remind you that at the time, the director of the Privatisation Agency was Mirko Cvetkovic. In the meantime, I was asked who was doing all the work that was being given to the Privatisation Agency the names of the consulting companies. There are about 1,500 of them in total, and I have here a list of 41 consulting companies that got about four billion dinars for the job. Now you see if there's a mob or not. I am sure that this mafia exists and that it includes the most political structures in Serbia, from the director of the Privatisation Agency, at the time Mirko Cvetkovic, to other political structures. I ask the question – how could a company do business in Serbia without being registered in a business register? I called the Business Register this morning and asked if it was possible for a foreign company to do the job without being registered. They told me it wasn't possible, but they asked what company it was to give me a concrete answer. When I said what was going on, they broke up my relationship and after five or six re-trying to get them, no one answered that phone number anymore. I direct the call to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to raise this issue regarding Morgan Stanley – how she could work, who hired her and that, if she worked illegally, and I'm sure it has to come to the data that she did, those who abused her position (for which reason - probably further investigation will determine that)... I am sure that these are material reasons, as the reason has always been dominant in privatisation carried out in Serbia over the past nine years. Serbia has been completely robbed There is something else small – the electricity system, public utility companies, Bor, etc., and the other one has been robbed. The value of the privatised enterprises is estimated to be between 30 billion and 40 billion euros and sold for 2,700,000. This speaks of the scales of the robbery that has been committed in Serbia over the past nine years, but also of the brutal violation of the law and the indemnity of the authorities when it comes to trying to at least somehow help end this. Because, here, there's something left of that property so that at least that property isn't sold as sold and this previous one, but they keep avoiding giving answers and trying to stop it. I ask the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to initiate this investigation and to provide within the deadline provided for, what has been done on this issue and whether they have been able to access certain data that would help Serbian citizens that those responsible for the robbery in the past nine years are responding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34464	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word in accordance with Article 235? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for a word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of Members of Parliament - I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Zeljko Tomic and Dragan Šormaz. Notice of invites to the session - I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Đukić-Dejanovic is on the subject of discussion of the 11th, 12th, 13th and 24th points of the sitting agenda, and according to Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, and Verice Kalanovic, the Minister for the National Investment Plan, called for the session to be attended by Ruzica Stojljkovic, the Assistant Minister of Finance and Zoran Milosevic, the Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy. We move to the 11-13th and 24th points of the agenda - THE PROPOSAL OF THE 2009 AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON: THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVES FOR 2009. I remind you, pursuant to Article 94, that the year, the accounting and audit and the Agency for Economic Registrars and the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Security (Common Principle and Single Search) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to a relatively large number of MPs. MEP group "For European Serbia" – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS Parliament group - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward, Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MEP group SPS - JS – 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group "New Serbia" – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform the MPs' groups that they have been authorised to represent them: MP Milan Nikolic – MP group SPS - JS, MP Donka Banovic - MP group DSS, MP Vlajko Senic - MP group G17 plus, MP Milorad Buha - SRS. If there are any further decisions on authorised representatives, please deliver them during the session. According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accounting and Audit, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers and a Single Review on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Insurance. Taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Art. I am also informing the MPs that this session is at the same time as during the meeting of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly. In view of the fact that the right of MPs to issue an opinion at committee meetings regardless of whether the report has arrived at a plenary session or not after the end of the session, and having regard to the fact that the MPs who wish to deliver their opinion on the matter have taken the decision and have made the decision, I would ask all the MPs present to deliver an opinion or to wish to issue an opinion at committee meetings following the work of these topics to apply to the electronic system and get the word. If they do not do so in this part of the course of the session, then after the end, according to the application for a word, when we ask if there is anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93, any MP who sets out an opinion will have the right to explain within five minutes the reasons for issuing an opinion on the proposals of the law in a joint principled search and a single search. Does the People's Parliament of the Prophet Radeta want to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ( ) Do the representatives of the promoter want a word? Diana Dragutinović? Yeah. ) Please register with the electronic system. The word is made by Minister Diana Dragutinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34465	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, allow me to present to you on behalf of the Government four draft laws: second rebalancing for 2009, amending and supplementing the Law on Accounting and Audit and the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers, and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Insurance. If we wanted to describe this in 2009 in words, it is probably best to say that it has been marked economically by the economic financial crisis and it is undeniable that this is the biggest crisis since World War II. This is the first year since the Republic of Serbia experienced negative economic growth during the transition period. The recession has affected the decline of public income. In a significant part of the year, in the first half of 2009, there was also a nominal decline in public revenues compared to the previous one in 2008. The main feature of the proposed rebalancing, which is in front of you, is to maintain the overall level of public expenditure, and to adapt the revenues to what is likely to happen, so the revenues will be significantly lower than those we planned in April, and thus, as a consequence, increase the deficit for 2009. This rebalancing established a new amount of deficit, resulting from lower revenues than planned. The expenditure, as I said, remains at the level of planned -- that's 719.8 billion. Incomes decrease from 649.3 to below 615 billion dinars. The proposed deficit increased by 34.3 billion and instead of 70.5 billion dinars, as we thought in April, will be 104.87. The most important causes of the change in the projection of income are precisely changed macroeconomic assumptions. First of all, GDP growth is lower. The fall is bigger than we planned. In April, we thought the drop would be up to 2%. Today we can almost safely say that the economic downturn is going to be between minus 3 and minus 3.5%. But what far more than the fall of GDP affects the decline of public revenues is an even greater and more dramatic drop in aggregate consumption, which is conditioned by the huge adjustment of the balance of payments. In 2008, we had an 18% deficit of GDP. In April, we thought the deficit would be less, 10% of GDP. Now almost certainly we can say that the balance of payments deficit will be around 6%, and thus, by adapting the current part of the balance of payments deficits to a large extent, the tax base for collecting taxes from consumption is reduced. On these negative changes, we were able to adapt in three ways. One way was to grow tax rates, another way was to drop expenditure, and another way to combine these two approaches. In standard conditions, which are not a crisis, we would probably define ourselves in one of these three ways. However, solid fiscal policy in times of crisis is counterproductive. There are most quoted episodes in which, after trying to close the gap between higher expenditures and lower incomes at tax rates -- all mainly quote the US experience of 1937 and Japan in 1997 -- an increase in tax rates pushed these two economies further into recession. Could they have further reduced the cost? I don't think so. This would further reduce demand and act as a boomerang for further downturn in economic activity. In that sense, we decided to increase the deficit, but in line with the agreed framework that we have with the IMF. I want to repeat that in these conditions, the deficit that we will achieve in 2009 will also be smaller than in most EU countries. In addition, the rebalancing creates greater flexibility for the government to react rapidly and operationally in the absence of a standard budget reserve size. When I say that it reacts faster and more operationally, I have to mention that in 2009 some expenditures could not have been planned well enough because uncertainty is high in the conditions of the crisis. Significant expenditure on social protection, subsidies and restructuring costs has been increased. I would take this opportunity once again and remind all of the measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia took during 2009. I think the economic downturn was still less than it could have been if these measures hadn't been applied. At the end of the year, at the end of November and in early December, the government and the National Bank of Serbia reacted with a package called the so-called "relief of the global economic crisis". Financial laws thus increase the liquidity of the banking sector. In late January, the government reacted to a second set of measures to preserve the liquidity of the economy: four billion dinars for subsidising interest rates; then loans for investments, loans for buying domestic products. In early May, the government also adopted additional stimulating measures for the economy -- again additional money for liquidity with a 3% interest rate per year, the introduction of dinar liquidity credits with a 10.5% interest rate per year, double-higher loans for exporters, more favourable consumer loans to purchase construction materials. In mid-September, the government adopted a stimulating package to subsidise housing loans for new construction, approved by banks since 1 October 2009. What are the concrete effects of these measurement packages? From March to October 2009, the banking sector approved around 900m euros in loans with subsidised interest rates and the highest liquidity credit. After all, it can definitely be said that these measures, along with the IMF programme and along with the Vienna Agreement and agreement with banks, made this crisis still prevail. Dear People's MPs and MPs, the fact that the second rebalancing in the same year is the best way of saying how unpredictable the conditions in which the government worked were. However, I believe that the fiscal policy we have led this year has been a good response to economic challenges. In addition to budget rebalances, dear MPs, you have before you a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Insurance. As you know, the collapse of the SFRY and recognition of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia have created a need for relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia in the area of social security to be regulated by the conclusion of a social security agreement. Meanwhile, our country has concluded social security agreements with all former republics. Slovenia is the last. This agreement has been pending for 18 years. The lack of this agreement has, in practice, made it impossible for a large number of people to exercise those rights stemming from the insurance training in the Republic of Slovenia. This law regulates the rights of pension-inhabited insurance, health care and compulsory health insurance, the right to cash compensation during maternity leave and unemployment rights. The application of this law will achieve significant financial savings. Finally, you have two interlinked laws, the law on amendments and additions to the Accounting and Audit Act and the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers. In short, I'm going to say about basic changes. Therefore, since 1 January 2010, financial reports by economic operators (this, of course, does not apply to the budget and budget users) have been submitted only to the Agency for Economic Registers, instead of the solution so far, where they were delivered to both the National Bank and the Agency for Economic Registers. In line with the above, the Agency for Business Registers will form a register of financial reports and data on the credit rating of legal entities and entrepreneurs. A significant newspaper is the Agency's obligation to publish on its websites the data on the financial reports of the audited obligors, with reports from the auditors, and to enable all possible users without compensation to gain insight into these financial reports. The paper also presents what will be delivered and published decisions on the distribution of profits, i.e. covering losses. What are the effects of delivering financial reports to only one institution? The overlap of identical transactions and functions carried out both with NBS and with the Agency for Economic Registers is eliminated. Rationalisation of the number of employees -- there is a downturn of 30 per cent. Also, the economy will be disbursed on the basis of double fees. It is estimated that the cost reduction on this basis will be 52 million dinars, and they all follow the costs related to paper, postage, time, employee engagement means another 40 million dinars. Finally, this law will ensure the integration of various registers on all business entities into a single information database. After all, I can only ask the MPs to support these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34466	Do the committees want the word? The Committee on Finance - National MP Branko Ljiljak? No, I don't. ) Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs - MP Meho Omerović? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word is by MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34467	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Assembly. I would like to point out only a few, it seems to me very important facts relating to the law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on social security. We heard the minister mentioning several important segments of this agreement. Let me just say that this agreement is based on the standards foreseen by the EU Regulation and our country in this area, as well as standards governing the social security of migrant workers. This implies the principle of equal treatment between the two parties, the equality of territory of foreign contractors in the use and exercise of this right, as well as for us a very important addition of insurance and export periods of natural and monetary giving. The proposed law will significantly contribute to the resolution of insurance companies, i.e. pensioners of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who, according to estimates and data from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, have about tens of thousands, who have so far been unable to exercise this right on the basis of their insurance standings in the Republic of Slovenia due to the absence of a social security agreement between the two countries. The minister noted, Slovenia is the last of the member states of the former SFRY after 18 years with which we, as well as in this way, should ratify this very important agreement. Furthermore, this law also provides for a smooth application that represents a comprehensive international agreement in the field of social security, which includes, as we have heard, provisions on the exercise of pension, disability, health insurance rights and, which is very important, including rights based on labour injuries and occupational illness and unemployment rights. A few reasons are very important, which I would like to point out, why this law is proposed by an emergency procedure. He was signed by two Ministers of Labour and Social Policy, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr Ivan Svetlik and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Mr Rasim Ljajic, September 29th. Our government sent this agreement to ratify us on November 19th. It is also important because it has waited very long for the conclusion of this agreement, which a large number of people were unable to exercise their rights based on the insurance training they acquired in the Republic of Slovenia. It is also necessary to point out the importance of this agreement and the fact that the application of the agreement would have very significant effects in the area of pension-inhabited insurance, as well as in the health area. In particular, I would point out that in this way the work of the compulsory insurance organisations would be significantly facilitated and significant financial savings would be achieved, as the application of this agreement would relieve the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I believe that almost all MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly will vote in favour of ratification of this agreement in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34468	Does the word rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want? No, I don't. ) Do the People's MPs who delivered an opinion at the committee meetings, at the session of the Legislative Committee, the MPs of the People's Parliament: The Belief of Radeta, Petar Jojic and Sreto Perić, and at the session of the Committee on Finance, the National MP Slobodan Maras. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the essential remarks that SRS MPs have on these four draft laws will speak to my colleagues during the principle debate. Of course, we have also submitted a number of amendments and we will also talk about details, but, like my fellow lawyers, on the Legislative Committee, I had to issue an opinion, above all to protect the legal profession. The way this session of the Legislative Committee is scheduled is something that is really inadmissible, not in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, and it is so not in line that it has never happened before. We received material about half an hour before the Legislative Committee was scheduled and held, and it is perfectly normal that it was not possible to conduct a serious debate on all these proposals. The minister didn't need to come to the Legislative Committee either because he knows the woman that it's just one formality, unfortunately. The Legislative Committee should play a much more important role in the work of this Parliament, but you have reduced it to a mere formality, in ten minutes you run over 14-15 proposals and then it is normal for you to expect that MPs who want to do this job seriously have to react. Here you have combined four draft laws and the minister asks the MPs to vote for these proposals in the voting day. Of course, as far as SRS MPs are concerned, it's not possible if we're considering the fact that we told you when you adopted the budget for this year, what we told you when you were bringing the first budget rebalance for this year. We, Mrs Dragutinovic, have drawn your attention that you are planning unreal incomes on planned excessive expenditures. You then claimed that it was all real, that you as a government were able to meet that budget in every respect, and now, a few days before the end of this year and before this session, you appear here with this budget rebalance proposal for this year. You were not in the opening statement, nor in the material we received, explaining what was also the subject of the debate, and when we talked about the draft budget law and its first rebalancing, on which these specialized services have spent some money that you may now be short of, which are contracts that you spent some money on, which are now a lack in your budget. We've been looking for that answer, we're looking for it now. We asked to discuss the DRI report for this year and for this rebalancing. There are many answers to questions that SRS MPs have asked not only to this government, but also to those previous governments. I remind the public, above all, that the DRI report included only 27% of budget users, and in this so many irregularities, so many offences, so many crimes, that eventually the Prime Minister would say that officials working in accounting would send some additional seminar to learn to do work that probably work well, but unfortunately they couldn't write something that wasn't real facts. These are, above all, the formal reasons, the formal-legal reasons for which I have ruled out opinions and why we can't vote for these proposals, and about the essential reasons, I said, you'll hear a lot during today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34470	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34471	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, no matter how painful and difficult your story is for Serbian citizens, it can have one positive effect. I'll explain it through a short story. When a lover and a lover of gambling unexpectedly won a great prize, a great gain, he still didn't know he was the winner. His friends, knowing that this could negatively affect his health, engage a psychologist who needed a few days to prepare him for such a great gain. When a psychologist estimated that maybe the thing is over now, he tells him – if you get it, and then he mentions a big number to him, at the sports bookies, what would you do? He answered very quickly; I would give you half. A psychologist, of course, unprepared for such a great gain, fainted. In the last few days, we've had visa liberalisation, we've got fiatization, we've got privatisation. Today, the president of the Republic is going to Brussels to take a request, so beautifully wrapped, to welcome Serbia into the EU. Tell the president, if he hasn't gotten there yet, he'll just ask them not to touch KIM, and your terms will remain. Now, what you Serbian citizens have brought back to reality, in real life, is that positive story compared to what we have in the last few days the opportunity to hear. So, to keep our citizens from fainting. Although hard to live on, you've now come here and told one of our big public finances problems. What's the basic problem? This government doesn't know how to manage public finances at a time of crisis and that's the point. But you tried, running into the IMF's arms, to make a deal how in what way they helped us here a little bit. Normally, in May 2009, a contract was concluded, so on 24 August this year was audited, then in October audits, and so on. You only prayed for that deficit to be slightly increased, to be tolerated, allowed up to 4.5% compared to the total gross income, and we boasted about it. They asked you for another promise. You said -- well, we're going to reduce the number of public sector employees and the republican administration, in local self-government, so what else can we do for you? We can freeze pensions, so we can freeze wages. You see, these are all kind of aggregate states. Well, that's what we can do at this point. Of course it's not the only thing, but there's no employment anywhere and there's no such situation here. The fiscal deficit is the difference between public income and public expenditure, and it must somehow be compensated. The holes have to be patched up in some way. In 2009, you resorted to some borrowings, some loans, as this deficit can thus be overcome. So then a loan was taken from the Russian Federation 350m euros, the World Bank 140m, the EU 200m, commercial loans (is this not true? 90 million, a total of 780 million, and the Ministry of Finance broadcast state records through the Treasury about 500 million, which is about a billion and 200 million. The day must come to iron it out, to come back. How can she do that? It can sell Telecom by selling EPS, selling forests, ore-richness, water, etc. This is what you can influence, i.e. to repay debt in this way, but it is very interesting to make a small comparison compared to what the public revenues were by projection of the 2010 budget. It was 649 billion, and the expenditures were 719 billion (right? ) and the budget deficit was around 70 billion at that point. Of all things, you've tried to reduce, increase, but the budget deficit has increased by about 35 billion dinars. For half the year, it was clear, when it could be seen how to fill the budget, so it was 281 billion, but the expenditures were 337 billion in half of 2009. By then, the budget deficit was already around 55 billion. Then it could be seen that at the end of the year, provided nothing drastic changes, it could be 110 billion dinars, but, well, we have about 105. You see, over the years, when certain checks are carried out, and public finances are to be managed, we can come up with data on what kind of situation will happen at the end of the year. I'm wondering where you came from with the budget rebalance before December 31st. Why didn't you leave it behind for New Year's Eve, and then exactly that we have the right condition that it is? I suggest you take care of your savings. Since it is obvious that in the coming year, by the time - I don't know, you'll be Minister of Finance, try to save so that you don't have to pull some money out of the dry drain later so that these Serbian citizens can at least make the most of their needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34472	Five minutes. Thank you. The word has been delivered by MP Slobodan Maras, who delivered an opinion at the meeting of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34473	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have issued an opinion on the Committee on Finance for a perfectly logical reason, because this budget rebalance is also the continuation of that April 2009, as well as the introduction, although it goes beyond, into the 2010 budget. With the full understanding we have of the economic and financial conditions that existed in 2009, we have heard two or three sentences from your assistant on the Finance Committee, where it is said in fact only that the rebalance from 70 jumped to 104 billion. Unfortunately, there are a lot of things left to say. I think it was important to say what a decline industrial production and construction activity, what a decline in exports, etc., and that it all led to a very difficult situation. As much understanding as we have about the situation where Serbia has found itself objectively due to the global economic crisis, we have a problem with what you planned for next year, and we have already talked about it, because there is no willingness to take a key step towards reforms in the country itself. I know it's probably least up to you and that you'd be willing, however long it takes, to tighten the belt of the state itself, but that's one political agreement that had to come much earlier. That is why in the previous principle debate, we resented that you did not come, that you did not respond to the invitation to sit down, talk, and together we see what would be best for this country when it comes to the 2010 budget, which are the reforms that would be necessary to implement and which way to go to finally get out of this dead end that we are in. I wanted to say something about this other law. What I'm interested in is that you mentioned earlier and what's in these changes, that the financial report along with the audit reports will only be delivered to the Agency for Economic Registers. I have to ask you, Madam Minister, how safe are you at the Agency for Economic Registers? How capable are they of doing this job on their own and how much trust can we have in the data that is, say, on their website? That's what I asked you last time. When we discussed the 2010 budget, we said that the subsidies for the Railways were extremely large, so we gave you examples of who is sitting on the Management Board of the Public Undertaking of the Railways. Let's just say, there's a board of directors who owns a company that doesn't exist at the Business Registers Agency. I also spoke to the director earlier, and we'll try to find out if the Government is the one who appointed a member of the Management Board of the Public Enterprise of a man who has a non-existent company or an Agency for Business Registers isn't running the register in the right way. That's why I'm asking you if we can trust one such agency that she can handle this job on her own. No evil intentions, but justifiable. If you have one such record, or if one company is not run by the Agency for Business Registers, and the director of the company is a member of the Management Board of Public Enterprise, then there is a big problem in the way the Government works. That's why we asked, not for bad intentions, but it's only normal, to discuss the 2008 final bill first, so we also asked to discuss the DRI Report, underlining - not for evil purposes, but for the only logical moves. We now have a budget rebalance that will be adopted 29, and 31 is in two days. We've only asked for one normal trail of events, that we can have the right picture, that the citizens have the right picture and that, if we need to help you, we can fix what's to be fixed. However, there is no good intentions on your part to do something together. All I can see is your intention to invite us, all MPs, to vote in voting day, and I don't see you doing anything more, not one step further than that. I think you should change that in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34474	Do any of the MPs who've issued an opinion on any of the board want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34475	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a bulky administration and no wonder the financial situation is the way it is. Tax bonds can no longer withstand the burden imposed on them by numerous ministries, agencies, funds, directorates and other budget users. Serbia has 25 ministries. What will 25 ministries do to Serbia? Serbia does not need more than 10 ministries. What does Serbia want with 111 republican organisations using taxpayers' financial resources? How can the government not try to save? Why is the finance minister and the government coming out of parliament's control framework? Madam President, it is time for you to take control, along with the MPs, of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia and its institutions and ministries cannot use taxpayers' funds like this, as this goes to drastic waste. China does not have 25 ministries; neither does big Russia have 25 ministries; neither does Germany, which today has more than 70 million, has 25 ministries. They are all corrupting taxpayers, workers and businesses, those who generate income, whose funds are being poured into the Republic of Serbia's budget. That can't be tolerated anymore. It's a massive administration. The people are hooking and asking - how long are we going to count certain institutions that have to be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? What's so little to give to agriculture? How come the Ministry of Science and Culture, led by Minister Djelic, is given eight and a half billion dinars without budget control? The Assembly must be the head controller. The congregation must be a computer and must control those who use the people's money. How can Djelic be given eight and a half billion, and the Ministry of Infrastructure has the cost of ten million? Imagine that. So Mrkonjic could have said - give me 200 million for travel expenses or special services. Madam Chairman, Mrs. Comic, the money is not controlled in that segment where it is used for specialized services. Huge resources are poured out and going to specialized services, and no one controls or performs the specification and realizes what these specialized services are doing, according to the contract. Are they getting new ones to work on a contract, are those services that shouldn't be considered? How can the congregation save and the government can't? It's the government who took money from the people, no more farm, no more assembly. This is a unique case in the world that the government controls the National Assembly and put itself above the National Assembly. Until the National Assembly, the State Auditor and the Budgetary Inspectorate determine how the funds of the taxpayers and this poor people are used, the government and individual ministries will spend the funds of the militia, unintendedly and who knows for what purposes. That's why the Serbian Radical Party advocates and demands... We succeeded, Madam Chairman, in last year's adoption, first of all, of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the budget auditor, to find him a special building and premises, but not yet filled with that state auditor and auditors. Then he'll shake his pants, apologize, every minister when the state auditor comes to him to control how he spent taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34476	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Cedomir Jovanovic was reported, followed by Milan J. Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34477	Mrs. Komic, there is no one from the presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Dragutinovic, for us this debate is actually a great opportunity in which we must find common interest. The opportunity to check how right we were when we defined economic policy for 2009, how much of our goals were achieved thanks to our efforts, how unsuccessful we were and what circumstances affected this failure, whether they were objective or subjective. What an epilogue this year is. You've said something about it, but you've avoided the essence, probably because you're tired of avoiding that diagnosis, and then I'm going to answer something for the end of the budget debate and our pension amendment. GDP has fallen 3%, someone will say 4%, and we've entered the year with a 3.5% growth projection. We, as an LDP, said that we would like to see that forecast come true, but not to see any arguments about it. That's why we warned you to make an unreal budget. Export decline 24%, 20% drop in investment, drop in industrial production 15%, drop in construction activity 24%, inflation 7.5%. Unfortunately, I would prefer that we were wrong when we announced all this at the end of 2008 in that debate in which we did not submit any amendments to the budget, so that the budget was adopted before 21 December so that the IMF could make a decision on providing some kind of support, not as it eventually followed the central bank and protect the course. What did the LDP suggest then, and why didn't you respect it? We've proposed targeted inflation of 2%, the freezing of wages and pensions that it's now coming to. So in a year you'll come to what we talked about pensions in this debate, so we turned out to be retired stepmom, and everyone else cares about pensioners so that eventually the pensioners will dream about what we're talking about. Once again, and that's the answer to the end of your debate that ended in a deaf time of night, when no one could even answer you anymore, and I saw it at 3:00 in the morning on TV, because I was waiting to see how you'd end the budget debate. Mrs Dragutinovic, until the young start working, pensioners will not get those pensions they earned, and the irresponsible state, with a disastrous policy, has spent and destroyed. Every penny of pensions you get comes from real work, and that's why we have to take care of those who work and those who have to work. That's why we suggested that amendment to pensions, very clear. If they could raise 10% linearly in 2009 then we'd better make a deal with each other in 2010 so we can find a way to cut those pensions so we can get room for new work. When it comes to exports, which fell 20%, we suggested, Mrs Dragutinovic, tax credit for exporters. We knew that the state had no money and we suggested tax lending, say, through the prolonged charge of value added tax. That's the kind of help we've proposed to the exporters. We don't mind your wanting to help the economy with the loans, but those loans you're talking about weren't cheap. For example, the only area in the economy that I grew in 2009 is agriculture. It's increased by 2.5%. Right, ma'am? And you've decided that only agricultural pensioners don't get pensions for 2009, but that their commitments will be transferred for 2011, and they will be able to account for those assets that the state owes them with an 8.5% interest rate. Why is the government's debt to pensioners increased by 8.5% and the economy's debt to the state in the form of those stimulating loans charged at a rate of 10.5%? So, you helped the economy by giving credits that were charged at a rate of 10.5%, and when, without asking farmers, you take money from them under the form of a loan, you will pay an interest of 8.5%. Agriculture, which was the only one growing and growing in the entire economic system. Now, that's that irresponsible state. And someone has to explain to us why your dinar is more expensive than the citizens of this country. When we talked about investments that fell 20%, that's logical. The money's pulling out of the perimeter to central. It is a clear origin of money that appeared in Serbia and the character of investors. But we're interested in why we made the wrong decisions. I'll remind you again of the Law on Planning and Construction. Fourteen versions of the bill were missed by the government through the resolution ministry. They didn't have touch points with each other. And then the government, defending itself against baseless accusations, decided to make it the simplest law to deny it all, but also to prevent construction. You know, Mrs Dragutinovic, besides "Luke Belgrade" something else was being built in this country and should be built. Because you want to prove your innocence to Luke Belgrade, you have disabled any construction in the country. And thank God someone from your government remembered to show the 1999-2000 budget and the difference between what was going on in this country until October 5th and after October 5th. Because it's not a normal situation where we, who are not in your government, are no longer defending economic policy in the last nine years than the government itself. You remembered it well yesterday to do it on the show. I hope the prime minister has learned something from you, not just the skill of the aikids, to use the energy of the opponent to escape the political duel. So the decline in construction activity is 24%, and the construction industry produces 40% of the country's GDP. Seven hundred companies lost their jobs, closed down, collapsed in 2009. In the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, you will hear the fact that another 500 companies are barely surviving and are expected to fail since 2010. Mrs Dragutinovic, on the basis of this rebalancing, it is obvious that we were right when we proposed some measures during the debate on the budget and economic policy at the end of last year for this year and therefore I would ask you to reconsider what we have suggested during the debate on the budget. Find a way to realize the elements of that program that we called "the deal for the future", which would allow us to solve such huge problems as the rebalancing itself points to. What is the fate of a country where industrial production falls by 15%, and this industrial production participates in exports of less than 20%, and exports have dropped 24%? Then there's the question of what we're exporting. Mostly agricultural products and raw materials. When we stop one furnace at Sartide, we drop 15-20% of our exports. In the agricultural season, when sugars work, then exports grow 30%. We, Mrs Dragutinovic, have a concept problem with the organisation of this country. We need re-industrialisation, such as when this country was stabilised after World War II, the process of industrialization began. I'm not advocating the five-year-olds, but I'm telling you that we need clear strategic plans to look like life in the King's, the Kruševec, Nis, Vranja, Leskovac, Zrenjanin, Kikindi, Somboru, the Subotics, in each of the cities of this country that were built around industrial complexes. Look at the chemical industry "Zupa" in Kruševec, then the "14th October", "The Trajal", "The Rubin". Not to mention Nis - machine industry, textile industry, electronic industry, tobacco industry. We don't have any factories in Belgrade anymore. That's what we need to think about. Re-industrialisation must be based on the reform of our education system, on reforming our foreign policy, because there is no new exports without new markets or returning to the old markets, where our doors are closed because of the wrong policy. We export twice as much, Mrs Dragutinovic, to Kosovo than to Russia. Once more in Montenegro than in Russia. These are the markets where we can show up with products that would then fix this bad blood count. You know better than I do what GDP is - private consumption, private investment, public spending, public investment and net exports. When we see all these elements in front of us, is it so we'll meet at the rebalancing site in a few months, where you'll look again at how you're going to and what you're going to do, and you'll be looking for a majority of them, and they'll go along with the treats and barbecues, and we suggest we make a deal and tell the society the truth. We have no reason to hide it because society is responsible, everyone is responsible for it. And then let's start solving these problems. Subsidized loans from the state -- that's the measure of every government under worse economic conditions -- that's what all governments in the world did. The deficit was even higher. Last time you commented, I came across information that Gordon Brown's deficit is almost 18%. It is no longer so important, but what, Mrs Dragutinovic, which distinguishes our policy from the policies of other countries, especially those that have already come out of the recession, is the ambition of our country to re-affirm practically the unsustainable thesis by which the state can fail, but nothing in it will fail. You started the process of opposite privatisation, so now the state takes action from private companies that are failing and that have no meaning for the state itself, except that the demagogues, of course, correspond to individual parties in the ruling coalition. There is no President of Parliament here, she has direct connections. I think it's a great example, that factory the owner gave back to the state, and the state took over. Well, what's going on in Lap's for ten days. How can one Sab, General Motors, Tin Brothers fail and you spend money we don't otherwise have, in vain, in utopian projects the state sends a message that it will live life instead of failed businesses? Whose account is it going to? Who's paying for it? Who's paying for the merger of a job internship in failed businesses? Who pays the debts of public enterprises towards the pension and health fund, so that they can be charged and realised some of the rights that are nominally existing, but are realistically invaluable without damage on the other side? This distinguishes your country's and your government's access from other countries that also help. We are in favour of helping, but to those to whom this help will truly be useful and enable them to survive and develop, not to extend what is inevitable. In Slovakia, 90% of the economy through transformation has been completely changed. Traditional branches of Slovak economy have been abandoned. In Hungary, 90% of transition companies did not wait for the end of the transition and the entry of Hungary into the EU, but some new ones were created. You say the state stimulated, say, housing. Ask people who deal with housing. They were destroyed by the state by its pointless announcements of cheap apartments. Out comes Minister Mrkonjic, as the elections are somewhere in Serbia, whether Vrbas, whether Vozdovac, is already important, so he says - the apartments will be 500 euros square. At the same time, families withdraw from the negotiations with banks, stop commercial construction, everyone waits for cheap apartments. How many cheap apartments have the state made in the last year, two, three, five? Belgrade needs 100,000 apartments. If we're lucky, the Ministry will push a thousand in 2010. But given the results of 2009, there will be no 10% of those thousands, there will be one building. Since we got this incentive for cheap housing in October, how many new jobs are open? None. I told you the statistics, the companies failed. That stimulating policy you're talking about, Mrs Dragutinovic, at concept level has a problem. She's not following economic logic, she's following political logic. It's about loans that went on behalf of liquidity. And what were companies threatened and inequitable? Because they had grown on loans for the past four or five years, which they were taking more than they belonged to, what they were buying and didn't ask, what they speculated, what they invested enormous amounts of money into buying land, and now when it had to be returned, then they didn't respect logic. Mrs Dragutinovic, the price of a square metre has dropped 70% in Dubai. In Belgrade and Novi Sad, these stimuli, among other things, are growing. Because banks don't enforce the mortgage law. Because we know very well that there are two forms of banking - the one in which you go to the credit committee as a businessman in every normal country and the one in which that credit committee bypasses by agreeing to take a crossboarder credit from a central bank or by showing up at that bank where the credit committee doesn't work exactly as pedantically and efficiently. These are our problems. In the following year, the economy is due to return half a billion euros on behalf of the interest and loans it has taken from the state. Am I right? About half a billion euros. But where is this business activity that's going to produce those half a billion and something else that's needed for these companies to be liquid in the future? We don't see her in these reports, she's gone. They will appear in a month, two or three with an attitude – well, once you've given us half a billion, give us a new half, don't let this go to waste. You know that's the way it is. And since 2010 may be an election year or it's close to the election year, then let's do what all governments have done in the last five years. Let's spend "Mobtel" on some political projects, come on NIP, let's spend all those billions that have entered the country on various grounds to spend on consumption. When they ask people where they are - in their unearthed salaries. It can't grow GDP 5-6% a year and grow wages 15-20%. Why don't you say so? It's not popular. If I told you something, if we'd seen what was popular and what wasn't, Milosevic would be president today. There was 95% of Serbia against Milosevic's extradition to The Hague tribunal and about so much for better standards, higher salaries, new apartments and the EU. Today we are handing over the EU's bid and this is a wonderful day. This is the triumph of generations, and of those who fled from this country to Europe and of us who stayed here believing that we could still create this Europe. This Europe is a building of values, Mrs Dragutinovic, and they are very few in the country's economic policy. Pull your ministry out of that rotten coalition. Don't go down Djelic's path. You don't have that ambition. We won't support you for this rebalancing because we don't see the government's willingness to learn anything on this rebalancing. The biggest debtor in this country is the state. Some healthy companies were destroyed because the state did not comply with its obligations to them, but it achieved its right to collect taxes. I'll just mention "The Bridge" and "Planum". Those companies are on lockdown. You speak, yesterday I listened to you, about investment in Corridor as about the development potential of this country. Yes, ma'am, but I told you on the case of Dimitrovgrad -- the first company "Alpine", the second company "Slovenia of Roads", the third company "Primorje" and the fourth "Constructor", only the fifth company from Serbia. We're not competitive, Mrs. Dragutinovic. And creditors, international financial institutions, they insist on clear tenders. They are not interested in the fate of a Serbian company, they are interested in spending their money in the most efficient way. That's what we want, too. We do not advocate that tender in which our company will be favored regardless of its not quality enough. But our company is burdened with an irresponsible state, and the companies that are its competitors have the support of their own states. That's why it's very difficult to support you. I told you on the pension case. The only branch of the economy that grew in 2009 is agriculture, and the only people who can't achieve their pension rights are farmers, because the state is extending its obligations to them. Of course I can, but not to an absolute extent. The state's prolonging it for 2011 and giving interest 8.5%, and when someone gives credit to the same dinars, they charge interest 10.5%. And when he's broadcasting his bonds, what's the interest on the bonds? (Diana Dragutinovic, from the post: The state can give interest under more favourable conditions. The state when it takes interest, that's different. Let me tell you something: I wish that were the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34478	Twenty minutes for the president of the LDP parliamentary group. I'm going to ask the minister to sign up, so all the MPs can hear the comment. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34479	Excuse me, 30 seconds and I'll be done. Let me just quote: In early May 2009, the government adopted additional stimulating measures for the economy, 40 billion dinars of liquidity loans with a 3% interest rate at the annual level for foreign exchange loans. That's convenient, we can't say it isn't, although it's much more expensive than it would be if we were in the eurozone. We have proposed a two-currency system, but therefore the introduction of dinar loans at an annual rate of 10.5%. In the budget debate -- pensioners' debt will be settled, and pensioners will be entitled to 8.5% on the basis of delays. That's what I'm talking about. It may be partially mixed areas, but it's actually the clearest picture of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34480	Thank you. Does the Minister want a word? Yeah. Just register, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34481	Banks lend loans, and the state subsidizes the difference to that 10%. So the banks are giving them away. When the state lends loans, it gives them at significantly lower interest rates. Let's just say, at what interest rates the Development Fund, which represents the state, can be checked. At what interest rates, in that category called a net loan or soft loans, does the state give credit? The state always gives loans at lower rates, and that's what banks give, while the state subsidizes to some height.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34482	Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34483	I agree, Mrs. Dragutinović. Everything you said about the Development Fund is absolutely right, but I need to remind you again of the rebalancing. I was talking about something else. So there may be a difference between state and government, but I think it's minimal. I quote - In early May 2009, the government adopted additional stimulating measures for the economy, 40 billion dinars for liquidity loans with an interest rate of 3% at the annual level for foreign exchange loans, the introduction of dinar loans for liquidity with a 10.5% interest rate on an annual basis, double-higher loans for exporters, favourable consumer loans for the purchase of construction material. There is no mention of the bank, Mrs Dragutinovic. What am I supposed to say about the bank when you didn't mention it? And what do the bankers think about that? How many have entered this program? What would bankers do with a 10.5% interest rate when those interest rates are gone? It's a virgin clause with them. The foreign exchange clause accounts for 10.5% in banks in Serbia, in what they remained, which are packed because they failed. I don't mean foreign savings. The currency savings are safe. The savings are safe, but these banks, as far as our economy is concerned, are far from us. We have a loan with a foreign exchange interest clause of 10.5%, you know that very well. In what I was saying, there's no mention of a bank anywhere. I quote very precisely, this is rebalancing. As far as exports are concerned, if we want to export - a new policy, Mrs Dragutinovic, back to our traditional markets. It will then open a perspective of life in Leskovec, Nis, Kruševec, Kralje, Novi Pazar, where 60% of people do not have a job. They don't because they don't have anywhere to go with their products. I can't go to Kosovo, I can't go to Macedonia, I can't go to Bosnia. Where are they going? So, new regional policy, new markets -- there's a response to exports. And the state - a completely different relationship. We suggest a fight against the gray economy, a fair attitude towards the pensioners. They'll get what they've earned when we start working. Without that, it won't work. In the end, what's very important is the value added tax. Some state charges taxes when a service is charged, not a tax charge, and that it owes itself to businesses and thus pushes them into a blockade and destroys them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34484	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic. You didn't sign up? I'm sorry, I was told you signed up as an authorised representative. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34485	I did sign up for the discussion, but that'll be later. I feel the need to replicate because of the way Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic tried to side with Mrs. Minister for last night's show, where a copy of the "Official Messenger" was shown as a counterargument to the remarks on the poor budget, as evidence of what the budgets used to look like from 1999. I don't know if it was necessary to prove the quality of the paper, how once the official messenger was printed, or what was controversial in that budget. What is the subject of my replica is next. Whether Mr. Jovanovic wants to defend Mr. Cvetkovic, who at the time of his exercise was the director of the Privatisation Agency, spent, earned money - I don't care. I want to tell Mr Jovanovic to remember -- those who once were and have really exercised power and those who have done many things in a few years against and have shared and shared the secrets of sin against the people and there is a conspiracy of silence between them. That conspiracy of silence doesn't oblige me. In the ministry where I was a minister and represented my own party and myself the specific purpose of the budget was defined in total for the company "Spectra", which was printed by the Privatisation Act in English, owned by Mr. Beba Popovic. I didn't pay for it. The fact that there were a lot of bills where the money went away and what at one point was a single account of the Treasury's united payment, and then today the minister rightly complains that through agencies and other organisations we have re-recognized one-fifth of the funds that are not seen in the budget is proof that in a similar way people have the state money and we will always fight against it. So they're just different mechanisms, poor distribution of funds. And what defends him when he doesn't defend him, Mr. Jovanovic? This first rebalancing, brought in in April, is projected to be a tax on corporate profits that has been paid five and a half billion lower and on income tax ten billion planned less than is actually charged. Do you know, Mr Jovanovic, that the final accounts are handed over in February, the tax returns of citizens two months before this rebalancing, so it's very interesting how these fair, professional, well-intentioned make these rebalancings. Based on the data that has been submitted, fewer figures have been made, which proves both the expertise and the superficiality of those who do these accounts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34486	I thought you'd be replicating the minister. Otherwise, Mr. Jovanovic didn't mention you. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the scene: I know it was on last night's show. Last night's show wasn't a session, Mrs. Tabakovic, but good. Anyway, now you've given rise to a new replica. I will give my word to Mr Jovanovic, of course, he is now entitled to the replica, but I would really like to ask that we return to the topic. The point was to talk about the transparency of this budget. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34487	Thank you, Madam President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister. I won't do too much Mrs. Tabakovic. It's just that in 20 years (I'm counting on it) she'll understand the meaning of what we're talking about right now, because it took her about that long to understand the meaning of what we've been talking about for the past 20 years. The fact that someone can be fascinated by their own ability to change and change the part of the hall in which they sit doesn't oblige me to say that Mirko Cvetkovic was a great director of the Privatisation Agency, but that as prime minister, he did everything he could to compromise and disprove what he created. That's his problem. We didn't vote for this government, but we're not going to bring that government down with you who, without any principle, just want you to come to power. A year ago, you knocked down this Belgrade defending the Hague indictees, and here yesterday you criticize fans who are doing what you taught them to do every second of their lives for the past 20 years. And tolerating DS is the DS problem, because we don't owe you anything. We can work with you in the business that we consider useful for this society, and there are very few. There, that's it. Of course, what I appreciate is your willingness to change. But in those changes, you can't be a leader, at least not to us. Others let you lead them, and you will see along with them how long you will reach them. As far as this baby thing is concerned, I'm not sorry. I don't think he's sorry you owe him either. Although, I don't think it's fair. When someone does the job, that job should be paid. But you have much bigger problems than Spectra and Baby. You've left behind 50 outstanding pensions, one ten years of chaos and madness, disabled people, expelled people, hundreds of thousands of refugees. Not to mention, everyone in this country knows that very well. Most people don't care anymore. I hope she's wised up in the meantime, and if she isn't, she'll knock the devil on the door again. It's not what I want, but it's always happened to this people when they didn't want to think before they hit their heads against the wall. Mrs Dragutinović, if I was not clear, I was talking about the consequences of the changes we insisted on in 2001 and 2002, when the Budget System Act was adopted, when Bozidar Djelic was still trying to be the normal finance minister in this country, when he brought the 2000 or 1999 budget, around this format, the 2002 budget, and thus guaranteed to this society that every dinar that was created would be spent fairly and in line with legal obligations and rights. That's what we all lack, the willingness to defend reforms in this country and the values that are based on our candidacy. And, Mrs Dragutinovic, when we head for this Europe, that path binds us. That positive magnetism changes everything. See how he changed the radicals. They took off the badge, changed their name, learned that Split is in Croatia. The only thing they can't figure out in the meantime is that they should respect those of us who've always known that. If we'd gone after them, we wouldn't have had a chance to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34488	Time. Mr Milan Nikolic has a word. MILLAN J. NIKOLIĆ: The Honorable Presidents of the Assembly, respected members of the Presidency, distinguished Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today for the second time we are discussing budget rebalancing for 2009. I don't think that's so bad, because it's better (at the same time, it's also a legal obligation) to realistically show the incomes and expenditures that were made during 2009. I remember little, and probably a large part of the MPs, a debate that lasted during the 2009 budget. The budget had the intensities to inherit positive trends and well-implemented budget targets from previous years, where GDP growth went somewhere between five and seven percent. There was export growth, some production growth, some employment, and that was a good trend. Although it was known that the economic crisis would occur, because it knocked on the door of developed economies, and in October there was a decline in GDP by 2%, it was believed and optimistic that we would manage to overcome the effects of the economic crisis through the government of the Republic of Serbia and the macroeconomic policy. However, the financial crisis in the world, which was one of the strongest crises since World War II, could do much more damage than were done if the government of the Republic of Serbia had not taken measures since the end of 2008. I will mention only some of them, noting that it is a good thing that timely adequate measures are taken and awake results in meeting, above all budgetary objectives. To remind, it was said once already, in late 2008, measures were taken to protect the financial system and preserve the liquidity of the banking sector. I think that's good because we've saved the banks, we've preserved the system. The second is the story of national and foreign banks, but the bottom line is that the problem, which was devastating in the developing world, is not expressed in this way here. However, the data were impertinent and say that for the first six months we had a decline in the social product, instead of expected growth, by 4.1%, that industrial production fell by 15%, that there was a decline in the processing industry by 19.4%, and the Serbian economy was mostly a processing industry, that construction works, where workers are employed, fell by 23%, and what is particularly important, our exports fell by about 23.4% and imports by 31%. Of course, the employment growth that was planned has fallen by 2% and we're recording the decline in human standards. In view of these macroeconomic conditions and the effects of the global financial crisis, which could have been far greater in its destruction if no timely measures were taken, but in January, government measures were taken that singled out four 'billion dinars for loans to improve the liquidity of the economy. I just want to remind myself that if such measures were not, anyway, a difficult situation with regard to the liquidity of the economy, very often there is evidence here behind the pay phone that everyone owes, that somewhere around 65,000 legal entities in the blockade, the situation was far more difficult if these loans were not granted under subsidized interest conditions, even if this amount was at stake. At the end of April, a decision is already being made, which is good, to review the budget once again and to rebalance, so that we can agree with the overall global policy, particularly in the area of crisis which has largely started to affect the country's economy. In May, additional stimulating liquidity measures with a 3% rate, which has already been reported to be 40 billion dinars. As a man from the economy, I can say that there has been enough, I would say, a fatal commitment to the continuity of production that is not within the boundaries of the planned, but is far less than it could have been if there had been no such type of stimulation and especially the measure that has been taken in terms of speeding up domestic goods under fairly favourable interest conditions and credit for up to six years to buy a permanent consumer goods and other goods that was at the time in major problems of finding plasmas towards customers. Of course, the arrangement with the IMF led to the fact that foreign exchange reserves remained stable and could certainly lead to much deeper recession flows that these measures were not taken by the government. However, we discussed the 2010 budget the other day. There have been announcements that the effects of the economic crisis, above all in the financial part, are slowly melting in countries where the world is developed. We don't feel these effects right now, and I don't think there will be any problems for the global financial crisis throughout 2010. I think it is necessary that, in addition to the measures already taken, along with the now more realistic 2010 budget, adequate measures should be taken to avoid recession processes that would be fatal to Serbia's economy after all the problems that lasted until 2008 and then in 2009, when we had a recession problem. They encourage these movements after the government's measures that have been taken, that there has been a slower decline in GDP growth, so it is expected that by the end of the year the decline will be at 3% and that something will reduce exports. It is estimated to be at 8% decline and imports to 16.7% in euro. Of course, for all of these reasons, and above all the accounting and obligations that must be met towards the users of social resources, we think it is good to adopt this budget rebalance and the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this budget rebalance in the voting day. As for the amendment and addition of the Accounting and Audit Act, we recall that the basic Accounting and Audit Act was adopted in June 2006. The law, first of all, aimed to comply with EU legislation and at the same time to try to introduce a more efficient system than it was before. At the same time, the Law on Auditing Activity was passed. The establishment of a register, financial report and data on the credit rating of legal persons and entrepreneurs at the Privatisation Agency shall combine the procedure for the reception, registration and processing of financial reports. Now, in this proposal, we have a pretty rational thing to do, I'd say. Instead of providing financial reports by economic operators to the Agency and the National Bank of Serbia's address, especially in this part of the credit rating, this time all these jobs will be carried out by the Agency for Business Registers, which simplifies the system, on the one hand, and at least, as the proposer says, there will be a disbursement primarily by the workforce, and the savings of the businessmen in carrying out these tasks will be at the level of 52 million dinars, so I think the project is okay. It is also important that this time the control carried out over the Agency's work is directly related to the Ministry of Finance and that the operations of the Agency, primarily, in the part of the management of the registers and other parts, will be able to be monitored in a fairly efficient manner. Also, so far, there have been a lot of riots in who he is and on what criteria he will be obliged to submit reports and to review such reports. I think this law quite accurately regulates what parent companies are, complex enterprises, dependent enterprises, large, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is precisely defined under which conditions are subject to control and reports to auditors for this kind of control. Of course, regarding this law, the law on amendments and additions to the Accounting and Audit Act and the law on the Agency for Economic Registers are also passed. The Agency for Business Registers was established by law of 2004 following some inert of the establishment of agencies, without sufficient definition of jobs and tasks to which such an agency must deal. Life and time have been done so that many of the things that several of the factors control in parallel now refer to the Agency for Economic Registers. I think it is a very efficient system and that many of the jobs, which have been divided over time through legal projects, fit perfectly into the obligations of the Agency for Economic Registers, so that it will already keep records of foreign associations, the register of tourism, the register of measures to encourage regional development, the register of chambers, the register of public votes. The register for bankruptcy, financial reports and credit rating data shall also be established, etc. It has also been authorised to register business entities on the sole principle of the one-stop shop system. Very much time and energy has been spent on the process of forming legal entities. How long the counter had to go to form a particular legal entity, how much time it had to be spent and how much money it had to be given. It is now feasible that within five days on a single counter, through the Agency for Business Registers, an economic operator can register, which will be of great importance not only for domestic potential investors and people who want to form companies, but also for foreign investors, that in one place with a professional job expert who does the job can do the job within five days. Of course, and finally, it is very good that with, last to the soul, country, Slovenia, we have signed this agreement on regulation of social status, pension status of people who have worked in one or another country for years, where they have not been able to exercise their rights for 18 years. There was a great injustice, nothing caused, for this worker and someone who lived in Slovenia or Serbia, so he moved to Slovenia for 18 years not to exercise his right. The happy circumstance is that we ended it with other ex-Yugoslav states in good time, somewhere later, somewhere earlier, but this is still good to end and that all labour-based rights, based on social status, especially in terms of pension policy, can be achieved by people. This law sanctions it very well as prescribed. Both the two and the third and the law on the SPS budget - JS will support it in the voting day. Thank you. Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34490	Before I start talking about three of the four laws that are in the group of these united debates, I want to tell my judgment about how someone remembers what you did, trying to falsify the past, or that it is to remember it selectively. When there is no photograph of an event or man as it looked at some time, it is someone who remembers it motivated by either truth or respect for that person, and perhaps with envy, so forges the memory of how someone exercised power, how someone participated in all areas of public life, motivated only by compassion for their election results and envy for the election results of others. Fortunately, citizens have different cameras for our present and different photographs of what each of us left as a seal of government. What is today a theme, I would not want anyone here to feel that the paper format or page number is talking about the transparency of spending or income. This 2010 budget has 1.009 pages. Part of it is repeated three times, almost in the same text, and we still don't know, and we can't keep track of how in October the increase in VAT in the country, which can't be explained by economic reasons, regardless of what it's trying to do to develop economic science, all experts, people who know what supplies that haven't been paid to VAT, and yet they've come out, people who know that VAT is a percentage of something, and that something has to be traffic, production, which had to be shown in some area of growth of industrial production, services, etc. There are people whose level of professional knowledge allows them to swallow some arguments. There's a number of those who can't really swallow every explanation, but it's certain that the number of pages doesn't talk about transparency. Your intention not to be transparent was clear when we adopted the Budgetary System Act, where you did not allow income to be shown in the budget at individual sources as stated in Article 23 and when I asked that the revenue side be shown in accordance with Article 23, where it is known individually what the other public incomes were, to know what these fees were and to know the individual participation of each tax. Whether you want to control the funds, control the spending, that shows the measure of respecting the DRI report in creating a new budget. There are absolutely no observed objections in the way the funds are spent. The fact that you've given us these three laws is exactly what he's talking about. You have provided us with amendments to the Accounting and Audit Act, which only cosmetically shape some perceived failures, and that area is crying out for a new law, and I expect it next year. This 2009 rebalancing could at least not be the second, but only one, as at the time of the 2009 budget it was clear that the recessions of the reasons would lead to the need for the budget to be rebalanced. The belief that they would really be able to maintain production and employment at that level and that these employees were being made in funds, in taxes, it was completely unrealistic and your closing your eyes to reality. The problem is it's exactly your assessment you gave by talking about this budget. All expenditures remained, and revenues were reduced. My general conclusion is – when you inherit from the previous minister a commitment to "Spectri" and Baby Popovic, you may not pay it, but when you, Madam Minister, some other government, whichever is, inherits debts that are taken today for 20 years, when an internal indifference is inherited is made by a billion euros, when you inherit this number of unemployed, when you inherit destroyed industrial production, when you inherit the belief that you should be freed from the tax of financial services, transactions, capital gains, when you send a message that you are more important earning and property instead of production that should permanently bring income, then it will be really difficult to run the state. That's the problem with this budget, which still 80% of its income comes to consumption, only 12% of the incomes called capital, property taxes, and only 4% of the revenue obtained on what's called company profits. And those aren't incomparable things at all, they're connected to each other. So the structure of budget revenues hasn't changed. And when you say social budget, let's solve that enigma once and for all. If the biggest source of income is consumption, VAT and excise duties, that means that of all citizens you take equally on cigarettes, alcohol, food and what is needed, and that means when the cake is 100 dinars of the one who has less, and out of 100 on 80 spends on the necessary needs from which you take money for VAT and your sources, and when it also means 80 dinars, you take from the one who has 1,000, where is tax equality? Where's the welfare state? If you take the most through the consumption of what is common, not the luxury tax, not the progressive taxation of high incomes, which is the world practice of other countries, but when you take the same from a bigger and smaller cookie, then it is true that this budget is financed by those who have the least. And this budget is neither developmental nor destructive. This budget is the government's self-preservation budget, and it reflects coalition relations, whether someone wants to admit it or not. This is evidenced by the expenditure on pensions, i.e. pensioners to which you created a vision of higher incomes, created an otitism of the public and a conflict of generations, and in fact through retirement inflation, they are also taken away from what you allegedly gave them. Let everyone go to the Serbian Progressive Party site and read the text 'Pension Inflation', where the basket of products that are bought daily with such prices that the practice of financial management comes down to - allegedly I'm fighting for pensioners, and I'm taking them through inflation, investing income in existential needs to the greatest extent possible. It's like a story to you when you say they collect utility services only 10% and that won't significantly increase inflation. If I give out of my salary, from that half, half of my utility service, heating, gas, water, cold and hot, I get that inflation, when I grow 10% of my service, not two percent, count it, but on 50% of my income it's 10% increase. You can't get statistics or your good intentions to justify everything. The figures and what's called real life best prove how social or developmental this budget is, which is not, and how much we are not in debt slavery, but in a debt trap. We are in a debt trap, which is also imposed on us by external borrowing, the alleged story of infrastructure projects, of which only 4.3% goes into capital expenditure, and of which a small part in infrastructure. You say, well, not everything goes from budget. It can't be said once that everything from the budget, when you have to brag, and when you have to hide how much goes past the budget, then you have a different approach. So the honesty of access isn't an emotional category. You can see that through these numbers. Through these figures you can see how much you really think about the well-being of the population and how much about yourself. I don't really know how anyone dares to talk about favourable loans, about subsidies. Who could see and take a dinar loan from these subsidies? Would you like me to show you an offer from one of the banks? All loans were indexed in euro. The banks are protected. The story of the government helping was a marketing story, one of many. She helped herself through funding loans, buying permanent consumer goods, but some other people's floor coverings and white techniques, a fraction of 18% came into the budget, and they earned through the VAT -- the budget and the banks with which interest was subsidized. The citizens are in charge. Now he will pray every night for the health of the governor not to react too late, letting the course go enormously and most of their incomes go to the payments of loans indexed in euro. And that every citizen's problem because of you and your actions is the problem of this country as well. The biggest problem with this kind of budget is forgetting that this country is being funded by people who work. Not those who deal with financial transactions in the virtual world, but people who create real products and who have to do something about GDP as real values rather than give statistical figures, current prices or constant prices, currency calculations contribute to a false picture. Even now, I'm going to quote Mr. Stojan Stamenkovic, who has long been silent, and recently admitted that GDP data is unusable and that all along it has been an anesthesionic debt story to make credits look smaller than GDP, as the structure of mandatory reserves has been deliberately presented to the public by stable reserves, and in fact it was another one of the failures of expensive monetary policy governors, who, in view of the people I'm talking about, has done a lot of bad things for all of us. The scariest thing is that the private economy, which makes 20 billion euros in debt along with total internal debt, actually has 300m to 400m euros in monthly incomes. How will private companies repay 300 to 400m euros in debt? The cost that is the smallest will be resolved, will be laid off, and this is the result of what is called non-response in time for crisis. What I especially want to blame you for is that the way you represent damage can't last long. It really can't take long. What you did not appreciate through this budget, which is the DRI Report, is that the money that is in this country, which is not properly deployed, is not put under control. You're letting something be called state authority, and you're letting someone who squished from the state charge him. You started it, you gave him offices, you gave him cars, you gave him privileges, the right to decide on his fees, and now he can define politics for you. It's like when in a local city a politician leaves a criminal to lay down his rules of conduct and to have a salary on which he builds a building, when he strengthens, the money provided by a non-solid politician who abuses power, that criminal determines the conduct of politicians. We allowed it in monetary policy, where the governor was independent of saying that he manages money, not society, not you as a government. He also began to dictate political decisions, where we, as a state, are now dependent on banks. You have burdened us with bank loans, internal debt, paper printing; the governor of 1,620,000,000 euros in repo-harthia, again with the banks, we depend on them; "Bečka initiative", the debts of private businesses with these banks, we are also in their power. Now we are all as hostages of your allegedly capable and far-reaching and long-term serious state leadership policy, which is the greatest ability to be in charge, not to cut the costs it has and not to worry about the means for which it is obliged by the citizens. Citizens don't choose the government not to ask for anything, they choose the government to arrange relationships in which they can work and earn. And this layoff and manipulation of the number of fired people embarrasses us in the world. All the countries in the recession have a reduction in the number of employees, and you show us only 44,000 laid off. If someone abuses the rights of the National Employment Service, say, we deleted 150,000 because some people abuse rights, but that doesn't mean that unemployment has nothing to do with the global crisis. It's about the Agency for Business Registers. I can commend the moment you decided to submit your financial reports to the Agency for Economic Registers. And it should be commended that in one place, not in several places, such a report should be taught. However, how can we know how the Agency for Business Registers works if you cancel the Supervisory Board at one of the agencies? We're talking about the need to control everything, and you're shutting down their surveillance. You are repealing the right of the board of directors to adopt in one such agency a regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs. What's someone afraid of? That sound and significant personnel would be out of work, so he's looking to put them in such agencies without going to the board of directors but to ask the director? This is not acceptable to the law, especially as the government gives consent to financial plans, and also to this kind of systemization for an agency that really needs to get meaning. You're proposing to elect her director for five years. That really doesn't make sense. Well, it's not the National Bank Council. In this turbulent time of rapid change, even when the registrar from this law is elected for four years, you want the director here for five years. You've predicted everything. Power, but not responsibility. And that's a general practice, that for those people and the bodies that you promote as important, in terms of doing some business on behalf of the state, and allegedly for the benefit of the citizens, you didn't foresee any responsibility for the failure or accidental error of the one who deals with registration. You can't say these mistakes don't happen. These mistakes occur, produce material consequences and damage to minority shareholders, creditors and companies. You need this law to predict responsibility and you don't have to perform on official duty. According to a lawsuit brought before a court of law, now commercially, and since the New Year's economics, people have to be entitled to compensation from the wrongdoer. It is interesting that you have put in this law an unusual provision, under which, for example, the finance minister can pass the rules. Do you know that in any court proceedings, the rule adopted by the minister is not treated the same as the regulation adopted by the body representing the minister? It is simply because of possible problems, and I will set a concrete example of your rules regarding the Accounting and Audit Act, which is directly contrary to Article 30. The accounting and audit law should take into account how the rights and obligations to make such decisions and regulations are prescribed. Let me just add, the board of directors is the only one in charge of the systems of jobs and of this agency. If you don't believe that, ask your associates to deliver decisions to the Constitutional Court, where only companies that don't have a board of directors can leave that kind of jurisdiction to their director. Any other undertaking or form of organisation must leave this in the jurisdiction of the Management Board. Just one more minute, for what's called law abuse and cosmetic change of the Accounting and Audit Act. The rule that you've brought about how international accounting standards are applied, and the very important thing... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Just to finish the sentence, about writing down the effects of course differences, it's contrary to the Accounting and Audit Act, and therefore a new law needs to be passed, and you need to be limited by powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34491	Thank you. The People's MP, Mrs. Donka Banovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34492	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I assume that you have almost had no more difficult and unpleasant task than this one today, which is to come to the Assembly and defend us with this proposal for a budget for 2009. It's not unusual for a budget rebalance to exist. We had our first rebalancing in April this year. So, according to some indicators and trends, it was clear that the deficit would be greater than planned, but you should have come with this or a slightly different rebalance in September, because these trends continued throughout the year. This way, you come seven days before the end of this calendar year, the 2009 budget is valid until 31 December 2009, and that fact itself is ridiculous. Because what's the plan in this rebalancing now? Next week, right? That's why I think it would be much fairer, and Mr. Cvetkovic could have come and explained where the budget rebalancing came from at the end of December and explained that his ministers (though he was headed by the government, and all the ministers were spending) were spending and another 34 billion, as the deficit of the last rebalancing went up. In April, the deficit was 70 billion dinars, and now we see that in this rebalance there is a deficit of 104 billion dinars. So it could be said that the government, or ministers, was illegally spending that money because they had not filed a rebalance on that budget in good time, and this rebalancing would, of course, be discussed in the National Assembly. Every budget or rebalancing should, but it doesn't seem to be the case with us, to be the government's plan and programme on how it will spend citizens' resources. However, we were brought here before the final act. This rebalancing is not a rebalancing, it is practically a report to the MPs on the implementation of the budget. So we can't criticise the rebalancing here in terms of saying -- it's not well planned for you, we think you should do it like this. We can only analyze this execution report here now. And what exactly do you tell us through this rebalancing? That revenue in the budget is less than expected and the deficit is greater than that projected by the rebalancing in April. So, the deficit has increased from, I repeat, 70 billion to 104 billion dinars, and for the complete 2009 budget, it can be said that there is less than about a billion euros. It is interesting to look at VAT revenues this year and see how the government's forecasts and forecasts have proved incorrect, and this also shows that the government cannot plan properly and not predict well. In the 2009 budget, VAT revenue was planned to amount to 338 billion dinars, which was in the budget. Later, in the first rebalancing, since it was seen that the VAT inflow was not exactly as planned, it said it would be an inflow of 302 billion, but unfortunately it was not achieved either. So in this second rebalancing, which is practically a report on execution, we see that in this year, VAT revenues have been collected only 296 billion. Therefore, 42 billion is less than planned, i.e. from projected revenues or inflows from VAT. What is this fact about how VAT is collected or what is indirectly said? That there is no business activity in Serbia, so there is no inflow from VAT and that unless the government takes the situation more seriously and initiates the economy, it will not be possible to finance the state's expenditures. For example, we know that in the 2010 budget, the one you voted yesterday, 63% of the expenditure goes to salaries and pensions. Let it rise to 73% at some point, then we can declare bankruptcy. Then we don't need budgets or rebalancing anymore. There's one more question being raised. Since it's obvious that you're misplanning and forecasting and you don't have a real picture of what the trends in budget filling really are, and trends have been pretty negative since mid-2008, then you're asking a key question - where do you get optimism about VAT inflows, for example, for the 2010 budget? In that budget, you predicted a VAT inflow of 325 billion although you have the experience of 2009 that you really shouldn't expect such an inflow from VAT. But that's your problem again, that is, this assembly can expect several more rebalancings in the next year, but it would be good if these rebalancings were on time, not to be a report on execution. This government is also irresponsible. Governments in other countries focus all available resources on the recovery and preservation of domestic economy. And what does the Serbian Government do? She does not observe what other governments in the region and in EU countries are doing. Our government, for example, in this 2010 budget envisioned the allocation of economic subsidies totalling three and a half billion dinars or about 0.5% of that budget, while, for example, the figure for services under the contract is 4.8 billion dinars. When this new budget was first presented at the Media Centre, Prime Minister Cvetkovic said the 2010 budget is developmental. I'm sure it's not developmental when it comes to economy. We can only say that it is developmental for all those who work under the contract of work, that it is developmental for catering services, etc., but certainly not developmental for the economy. You know, we at the DSS think this budget isn't developmental, it's destructive. Repeat, development is not if 63% of the expenditure goes to salaries and pensions. It may be a little awkward for you, but we simply have no choice but to remind you of the bombing campaign promises from early 2008. Among other things, you promised 200,000 new jobs, and there's nothing. Then, President Tadic spoke at a session of the DS General Committee about giving up on a promise of 200,000 new jobs and telling workers and employees in Serbia to guard their jobs, not to lose them by accident, and he will help them keep them safe. But I'm afraid he didn't keep that promise either. At this point, we have over a million unemployed, so around 16.5% of Serbian citizens are unemployed, and instead of successful businesses, where workers would work and where new jobs would be opened, today in Serbia we have about 70,000 indivisible businesses. So the revenues are reduced. And do you think the government has cut costs and expenses? It's not. Our ministers and Prime Minister Cvetkovic are constantly talking about saving. One day, when there were minus 20 in some towns in Serbia, it was very cold in Belgrade, he called on citizens and told them they had to save on heating. That was the highlight of rudeness. Why? Because citizens are already saving enough. Citizens know what home budgets are and can't afford to have holes in their home budgets, as one government can afford. So, the government has a huge hole in the home budget, but no matter what, expenditures don't shrink. I'm not saying this by heart. It's something we from the opposition DSS feel good and see. However, a few weeks ago, the State Audit Authority came out with a very serious report and the report is actually saying that when a big hole in her home budget, she is being irresponsible and arrogant. The state audit institution, because it has no human or other resources necessary, has managed to revise in some segments. They say that only 27% of these transactions have managed to control, in four ministries, in three administrations and in one directorate. What that report shows is frantic and very worrying. It once again shows that this power is wasteful and that it does not occur to her to save. The only thing she can think of is saving on pensioners, freezing their pensions in the next year. Then they found a way to save on families with children. Recently, we also had a proposal for a law on financial support for the family, and it says in that explanation that the budget will not be able to be implemented successfully unless the law is adopted. So the government can save on citizens and on different categories, but it can't save on its own. The auditor's report, for example, states that some things have been spent 56 million dinars on catering services in all ministries. My colleague, Milica Vojic-Markovic, calculated that for this money all the folk cuisines in Serbia that operate at this time could work for three months. There are 25,000 users in the soup kitchens. That money would be enough to fund all the soup kitchens these people could feed for three months. The report also showed that the ministries and administrations violated the Public Procurement Act, spent and cost millions under the company "representation", that many contracts on the work were unwarranted and that the fees were astronomical. Another interesting discovery. I don't know if Mrs. Minister already knows what happened to that money at the moment, but the DRI, among other things, has discovered that for 380 million dinars, every lead that has come has been lost or not known to have been spent by 380 million of some donations. Each ministry receives donations for one part of these funds, so they exist through paper and in that control it was found to have been spent, but 380 million are unknown. Perhaps Minister Dragutinovic had time to look at the auditor's report and may already know what is going on with the donation money. All in all, I repeat, I think that here should be Prime Minister Mr. Cvetkovic, because he is the one who needs to explain and answer the question of how it was spent and what the expenditures were and what plans and decisions of the last rebalancing in April. Mrs Dragutinovic is the finance minister, but she certainly cannot be responsible for all those ministers and for the entire government that is very arrogant and irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34493	Thank you. MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34494	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the rebalancing has finally come. We've been expecting him a lot earlier, but he's coming seven working days before New Year's, and I don't know what his purpose is, except that he's legalizing something that's been done extremely badly, which has been spent unintendedly, and now he needs it in this House to get legitimacy. People's MPs should call it that those who have committed a variety of financial violations, who have spent much more than they could spend and in ways that the Budget Law was not allowed simply to have legitimacy and to say tomorrow – well, it was adopted by the Serbian parliament. It is unexplainable to adopt the budget first, and then to discuss the State Auditing Institution's 2008 report afterwards and after the adoption of the budget the rebalancing for 2009. It's the turn of a move that doesn't exist anywhere, just for us in Serbia. Why is that allowed and why is that done? I was thrilled when I listened to the minister when she said that the resources were out of control of the Budget Law. Here and now, in the new budget, huge funds are being put back into place that will be completely out of control of the Budget Law. These are the funds that serve each other's deals, purchases, various investments that will come later, for various purchases, trades that will take place next year, as it is this year. Everyone is flying across Europe, all running some excursions, everyone wants to go to the EU, they're all important, they're all important, and nobody says what means it is done and who approves it, how it's spent and who pays for it. Therefore, the problems will surely be, and we quietly approve. A budget was adopted yesterday. Breaking news – a budget was adopted. Who adopted the budget? What ruling majority adopted the budget? What coalition adopted yesterday's budget? Who is behind the Budget Act, which was adopted yesterday? Riza Halimi? Vladan Batic? They're not in the O.R. And this gentleman, I don't even know his name, from the radicals. They're behind that budget. We'll chase them down the halls if there's a breach of the Budget Law. What policy options are behind yesterday's budget? Who's going to be behind the rebalancing that's now being proposed? You'll catch some MPs somewhere and it'll pass. Yesterday, the government of the Republic of Serbia fell, it no longer has a majority. The ruling coalition does not exist. This is one interesting group that just works when it's needed, and then some other, third, fourth, fifth, will give their voice, and eventually you'll be chugging... So we're after someone who voted yesterday, and he says, "But I didn't vote on the Information Act, that's what some others voted for, so the third voted for the Statute of Vojvodina, and the fourth voted for the transfer of jurisdiction." There's no responsibility in that political mess because you don't know who's responsible for what. Therefore, the large funds of the Republic of Serbia are being spent unintendedly. Why are they being wasted in vain? Because there's no respect for the Budget Law, because certain items are leaving... Yesterday, the minister explained that she was a large number of pensioners. I listened to her very carefully last night. We have a lot of young pensioners. Right? And Dinkic will retire a little while longer and give the whole of Serbia, only you will give him funding for subsidies. Now I ask you: can we volunteer, here are the MPs willing to enter one action, to collect the severance for Dinkic? How much is his severance, Madam Minister, that we send him away, that he retires too? There's been a lot of work, here's nine years of looking after Serbia's finances, and we're getting worse and worse. His cabinet, his team, has controlled the finances of the Republic of Serbia for nine full years and will now enter the tenth. From Jelasic, all in a row. Start tracking what's going on. Strong assets were spent during that period, 57 billion euros, and now we say -- we have a million unemployed, we have 700,000 people feeding on the show. Every tenth Serb waits for lunch at the screen, throughout Serbia. This is the success of this policy. So much privatisation. I remember perfectly, the government from which I left, when she handed over the duty, left 1,600,000 of "Mobtel", 360,000,000 of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" and 300,000 of the third operator (this VIP operator). Where's the money? How much money has been deposited in the Vojvodina Capital Fund, and it has been said to make capital investments and corridors? Of course, it's none of that, now you're taking credit. In previous years, when we weren't in control of the IMF, the budget deficit was broken on the roadsides and that's why they were in debt. Now we're under IMF control, we got credits, and again, here we are, seven billion with interest dues at the end of this year. Only "Planum" 860 million. Did you take it apart these days? They're forced to give the tolls loans, they're longer and they're going to choke again. They take loans for commitments they had and funds under the Budget Law. NIP funds haven't been paid in years, and that's why they're debts. It is also now done by Kalanovićka and we will again come into great debt towards the passengers. Once again, we'll grant some credit to lift them up and completely choke them and bring them into bankruptcy. This government can't get out of the wagon she got into. She's got big problems. I'm listening to politicians from the ruling coalition calling the opposition guilty of something. Here, your colleague Gilas ends up over his little girl's hospital very soon. Here, close to this House, the big hospital is real. Of course, the new girl - new facilities, new investments. The old lady takes part of the company and he says there's nothing left with it. Now it bothers you and the law. The Agency on Business Registers wonders where it came from on the site how much business it was, etc., so now you want to change that too, to bring your people in, to cover it up a little bit, to hide it. He can't hide. In Serbia, you know everything. Madam Minister, I'd like to ask you a question. You've increased in the new budget for 2010, by three billion subsidies for the Railways. What proof is that? That the railroad doesn't work, that it doesn't transport anything. And what does that mean? That business doesn't work, there's nothing to drive. People can't walk empty cars. It's proof that the economy is in total collapse, that there's nothing to drive, and you're now through the new three billion compared to the previous year you want to cover it. Is it possible for the government to tolerate so many days being blocked in Lap's Corridor 10? And you're paying through subsidies now. No transport, big damage has been caused by the lags in the transport of these goods and you, of course, want to make up for it through the budget. So there's more and more problems in the economy. The economy is over-indebted. Two thousand billion currently owe Serbia's economy. It's like the debt of the state. Serbia's economy has 200 billion interest per year that it cannot handle, ma'am. You are only in debt, and I repeat, you have received a full cash register of 2,260m euros, spent in a major campaign for European Serbia and for unilateral respect of the agreement with the EU. Now, at the end of the year, you hit marketing. You run a field trip, you travel around the world, you hold press conferences. What makes this tortured people travel when thousands of families wait for electricity to be cut off? People block roads, no electricity in the 21st century. Ma'am, do you understand, they don't have the basics. They don't have to eat, they're worried about whether those kitchens are going to go out, whether they're going to have a baby to give bread. And you're saying that you're going to charge taxes, of course on that biggest misery, which pays VAT on both bread and milk and all that, and on the property of those tycoons, the richest, you can't touch there. Why? Well, you can't touch it. Djelic also has a hotel in Sokobanja, bought it in privatisation. I've said it a hundred times. What can't she say if it's true or not? And many in the government. How did Goran Novakovic, who has now become a businessman, break up with you? How did many who were part of this ruling coalition get ripped off? You don't touch them now, because they're very rich. The international tycoons stand behind them, and they externally conduct the country's economic policy. I'd be ashamed to sit at the office of the finance minister and say last night on the show -- the IMF brought it to us. And the governor says the same thing - he brought us and they agree with this. What does this Parliament agree with, this people? So they brought you, and we're the ones who just have to say -- we give befel, we're happy that our country is economically, financially managed outside, which projects are directed outside, not from this country. So, you're just doing marketing. Are you in government normal people when now, in a crisis year, you're going to build four highways at once? It's a gala. And every once in a while, you know how the people say, "Who's clogging up all over the place a little bit?" And for two construction seasons, you've done 20 kilometers of highway half profile. You forgot about the tour around Belgrade, you forgot about the Pančeva Bridge (because Pajtic spent money), you forgot about the Raca bridge (which should be released, only a little more money needed, which Pajtic again spent through the Capital Fund), you forgot the Gazela Bridge (for which the money stands, and you can't do it), and now you're going to scratch this Belgrade-Cacchak. You found a highway from Ub to Obrenovac. It's a complete plain. There's no problem with that REIK Kolubara. And there you will provide a few kilometers, along with a large marketing – you started the Belgrade highway - the southern Adriatic. Did you know that a watchman tunnel costs more than anything you're going to do with two billion dinars? Who else in the world does credits and budgets on highways? You're starting Nis-Dimitrovgrad, you started Novi Sad – Subotica... And do you know how much the Gredile ravine tunnel costs? You just scratch where the plain is and give it a little, a few miles, you all come here and take a picture, you can't fit in the screen as long as it comes, and then -- the campaign. As of now, you have sent a request for EU accession. It's one campaign a man can't survive from. As you've been campaigning - taking care of the people, so the flu... Now you've forgotten that. There's a vaccine. No one's going to vaccinate. What do you do with that vaccine? Where did you get it? Who got it? In what way? How? He's the only one who's ever been to Miskovic. And all that's going to happen around the Fiat is Miskovic, you know he's the Fiata representative for Serbia. You fight there with your hands and feet. Now, last days, it's New Year's Eve, you're writing some annexes again. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have a contract this country and this budget in 2009 respected by the end. And what was "Fiat" supposed to do? To honor the contractual obligation. And now you're coming tomorrow to write some annexes, to please the public. The Italians will come. They were supposed to give 200m euros. And what about the 200m euros they were supposed to give? Nothing. Nothing's been done. You ran to them, asked them -- come on, come on, let's calm this public down. They're going to have a big party. This morning we listen to the mayor in the morning program – he was as a boy thinking of "Fiat" coming. His dream came true, "Fiat" comes tomorrow. What do we, like Serbia, benefit from the coming "Fiat"? We're all going to start playing that -- the lowest, most favourable offer, etc. It's the only way something's going on with that Fiat. You blow your brains out with it. Therefore, there is neither of this rebalancing nor of these laws of yours, because debt remains. There are huge debts left, large funds spent, which are, of course, unintendedly spent and for which one will surely be held accountable. What about construction? Why did construction completely die? How many gigans went bankrupt? Do we have any other living construction companies? The minister of construction and urbanism collects bottles around the rivers and the action is continuing. There's actors, there's the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. Gentlemen, construction is the engine of one country's development. What's been done here? I'm looking at the energy mess now. Dinkic, in order to maintain his electoral body and get someone new, has given some strong credit to make mini-trails. And people make plants. Oh, my God, you're crossing. I see two of them from Chuck, mine, they've got -- a man's got a deer, he's got a real hunting ground, he's got a job, and now he's got a hydrocentral out there somewhere, not an Uvac, somewhere around the Drina. Just to bring in a few members, now a project documentation is being done and these mini-megawatts are moving towards Serbia, etc. What about all the coolers we made, same through agriculture, that were given from the Development Fund? It's gone. What about the Stara Planina ski resort? How many skiers are there in the full season? What is the loss of a ski resort on the Old Mountain and whether the infrastructure is finished or not? How many beds on the old mountain? How many tourists can we set up and take care of? What's the capacity for a skier's lunch on the Old Mountain? Did you know that in those rooms that were made, 20 people can't get in? And that's some future of Serbia. That's what we're talking about, that all of eastern Serbia will develop on that. Yeah, but how much do you need to invest? What about the wastewaters? What about the water? What do you make of artificial snow when there's no water on the mountain? Where did you get it? It costs billions to bring water, Mrs Dragutinovic. So this is all marketing stuff. You're dealing with one serious, big marketing. That's what the team of Shaper, Krstic, Gilas is doing phenomenally. You think marketing can run the country. It can't. There's got to be something to do. We have to do something. And the fact that you're moving marketing into building four highways at once, that's a disgrace to Serbia. Start one and finish it, put it under charge, and get the funds back. How do you plan to get to Ub, take the highway to Obrenovac, and where are you going next? How do we move on? Well, it costs more one tunnel in the Mine than that whole route that's going to work, etc. That's all the stories you've been telling us for days and getting carried away with these stories. All the powers were given to the governor. A man literally does what he wants. Has anyone here seen the National Bank report come to parliament? The man privatized all the money, all the reserves, does whatever he wants, takes the IMF's credit line, sets a course... He's a genius. Where did you find a genius like that? You were his deputy, was he really a genius or not? Where are you going with a genius like that? How did they let you out of the world let you do that? I just can't believe that kind of genius Serbia gets just like that. That transfer must have been paid deeply. Why are you gassing again? ) imports from Hungary? What about the warehouse, is it over or isn't it? Why are we importing gas again?? What about underdeveloped municipalities? Are you waiting for them to die? They're shutting down kindergartens, they can't keep warm. (President: Bring the end, please. How much in the rebalancing did you provide for the means to survive people? In the 21st century, children freeze to death. Here, I'm done. Thank you so much, I don't want to bother you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34495	Mr. Vlajko Senic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34496	Dear Presidents, a respected minister and other government representatives, I think this debate on budget rebalancing is the time to also talk about Serbia's economic policy during 2009. I think that, and when we made the budget, we were kind of aware that we were going to enter into a year that would be economically very difficult and that would require a certain adjustment. Of course, I have no intention of being a government attorney or ruling coalition, I want to really talk about what has been done over the past year, and to properly shed light on everything that the Serbian Government has done in that economic work, with the support of Parliament, of course. We couldn't at the end of last year, when it was time to bring in a new budget, talk about all the effects of the global economic crisis, and we couldn't rightly project the situation of loss, first of all in revenue, which our budget and our country will suffer. That it would be, it was clear to all of us, because Serbia is not an isolated island. In our economy, we cannot have processes that are contrary to what is happening all over the world, in Europe and in our nearest environment. When we talked about the 2010 budget, we spoke several times about the fact that in many countries there was a sharper decline in social product and that it was a much greater budget deficit than in Serbia. We have even given examples of economically leading countries, such as the UK and the United States, where the budget deficit over the past fiscal year has been double. In this sense, it was our coldness in which this year's mission will end, which is not otherwise the definition of our party, the definition is that the state is coming out of the economy, but in the time of the economic crisis, when personal consumption has fallen, when there has been a drastic drop in export and export demand, in some ways we have returned to that concept when the state has to intervene in the economy, the state must have its own word to prevent a complete economic collapse. That wasn't just the case in Serbia. In the largest economies today that drag the world forward, both in America and China and in the EU, huge funds have been allocated from the budget to maintain economic activity. Unlike them, at least we didn't have to give funds to prevent bank collapse. I think it is one indication that some things in Serbia have been done positively over the past nine years and still give some results. The rebalancing of this budget for all of us is also a kind of sobering and grounding and a picture of how real the 2010 budget is. When we compare this, in a way, final data on what revenue and expenditure for 2009, I think that all that was heard here in the Assembly and in the media is eliminated, that the projection of the 2010 budget means a higher value added tax. I want to tell citizens and businesses once again, and I think it's important and that in one normal economic state, at least in a year or two, we can talk about the tax environment and what tax policy it will be. While the government is operating in this system today, there will be no VAT increases in Serbia. We will not solve the state's income deficit by having a bigger tax intervention of the economy, although there have been such proposals, although there have been such tips, although some countries are in the environment, such as Croatia, for example, where VAT seems to me 23%, have just used such a policy to solve their problems. So our country has adjusted its expenditures to revenue and has blended into what is now realistic and possible. That the 2010 budget, although there have been many unargued criticisms, is actually realistic, we will also tell about the amount of VAT in the country and abroad. We've heard about the projected rate of 30% growth, that there will be dramatic new tax burdens. Citizens should know that the country's VAT for 2010 is projected at 134,500,000 dinars, and that in 2009, it will be 122,514,000 dinars, while VAT from imports is projected at 187,440,000,000 dinars, while in this year it will be 171 billion dinars. So when we calculate the expected rate of inflation of 6%, the expected growth of 1.5%, and the expectation that there will be an increase in imports and an increase in consumption, then we can say that this is, in fact, summed up, a rate of 9.5 percentage points compared to 2009 and there are no words of 20-30% increase, as we could hear here. I also want to say that this sobering is also a good basis for budget projections, not just for 2010, but for our fiscal and economic policy for the next few years. As the ruling coalition, we are aware that it might be better if the structure of the budget was different and that there were more resources for infrastructure works, for investment, for investment in industry, at least in this period until Serbia entered the EU completely and then there would be a slightly different and stricter rules for this state aid, but we cannot ignore the reality in which we operate today and in which we live. The party and the G17 plus will insist that during 2010, a serious story on pension reform is started, but we couldn't say - okay, now let's start with that 35% of the expenditure coming from the budget to fill the pension fund to cut by two or three percent points and deprive some people of the rights they've acquired in some previous period. We see the solution, about, in line with what the World Bank has given, and this is some future projection of pension expenditure, so the tightening of the retirement conditions in the future, the higher age limit and all that, through control, of course, pension growth, implies that in some medium term we have a much less share of pensions in the social gross product and, therefore, expenditure from the pension and salary budget. When I talk about wages, then I think about reforming the public sector and, for starters, we hope that the public sector in Serbia, which is not small, will, at least in the coming period, provide better services for these not small funds that Serbian citizens single out each year for its functioning. We are aware of these structural problems, but we are also honest with the citizens and we are not in a position to collect a few cheap political points, because we know what reality means and we know that the government has a very important, especially in Serbia, social function, which cannot be ignored. You cannot implement reforms in a way that a part of the citizens feel it on their skin literally endangering someone's existence. What's important to us, when we look at next year's budget and compare it to this 2009 rebalance, there's more expenditure on infrastructure. I wouldn't agree with the previous speaker. I think it's a good investment in infrastructure, and he promoted and worked while he was a minister. I think that the state has found a way to be in charge of the international financial market under the most favourable conditions at this time, that the long-term loans we have received are really favourable, that they will enable the economic relevance of this investment. It is clear that without more serious investment in infrastructure, we cannot expect an increase in direct foreign investment as a key factor in the future growth of Serbia, because this model of consumption-based growth, in the past few years, has obviously been making the most of it, and we cannot rely on that anymore. What's also important, which is a painful point and what this budget rebalance shows, is an external trade deficit. We will formally have a smaller external trade deficit during 2009, but not as a result, to be extremely honest, some changes that occurred in the structure of our economy or some dramatic growth in exports, but as a result of the general decline in external trade activity in the world, and thus in Serbia, and the fact that imports fell at a higher rate than exports. That's one, I'd say, the current result, which is better than it was before, but we can't count on it in the next period. That is why I want to look back on a project that I think is, and I hope, in the opinion of the Serbian government, and we see it in the last few days because everyone in Serbia has been involved in supporting the project, providing the topic that we have all mentioned together several times, which is the re-industrisation of Serbia. There have been a lot of problems, expectations, infidelities, even a mockery of the project, which will be the official beginning tomorrow, which is a strategic partnership between Serbia and the "Fiat". We're not running away from what we told the citizens during the election campaign. We know well, at least the G17 plus knows that, and I believe the rest of the ruling coalition, that signing a contract with the Fiat was perhaps the key thing that defined voters in 2008 to support the ZES coalition in May elections. In the past, the government has done its utmost to ensure that the contract is fully respected, and it should be said, for the sake of truth, that we sign an agreement and a contract that opens the perspective that 200,000 cars are exported annually from Serbia. If you look at it at an annual level of about two billion euros in exports, and our total exports are no more than 7-8 billion in a good year, then it's one impressive piece of information about how our economy's structure will change, that, in addition to those 2,500 directly employed people in Kragujevac, a whole series of accompanying economic activities will rely on the work of the Fiat. Of course, it wasn't easy to get into that project and it wasn't popular that the state had its own share from the start, but we didn't have a choice. We had to, as a state, give the best possible conditions of all the countries in the region, because several countries were interested in keeping the project with them. Thanks to the conditions, our negotiating team and some projection of the business that our partner made in Serbia, we managed to bring this project to Serbia. I see nothing wrong with Serbia turning, I hope, into a country that will be the leader of the automotive industry in the region. On the contrary. And I don't see any harm in the fact that 2,000 flag workers from Kragujevac, instead of lying on the Kragujevac railroad, are looking for support from the state and solving their problems, will have the opportunity to do their job and earn money. I think it's a great thing for Kragujevac, that it's a great thing for Serbia and that these are the moves and investments that can solve our most important and painful economic part, which is an extremely high external trade deficit. At a time when we make that deal, big companies fail. The Swedish Sab failed, a project that Kraissler had with Opel. The German government was seriously shaken about it. With all the criticism of why it took so long, and it lasted because of the global economic crisis, I think it must be acknowledged that at a time when the automotive industry in the world is experiencing a serious decline, Serbia manages to do a serious job in the part. I also think that this debate on rebalancing, the budget and all the accompanying laws has raised the quality of the debate on public finances in Serbia. There is a DRI report, there is a decision by the Finance Committee, although it was not our obligation, to refer the report to the Serbian Parliament, to discuss it here. There are also conclusions we have suggested. Yesterday we heard that "Transparent Serbia", an organization I highly respect and appreciate, is asking for these conclusions to be concrete, and I call from here, from the assembly speakers their representatives to come to the Finance Committee. Whenever it suits them, we will schedule a session and let them help us together - in which way we can formulate conclusions differently without interfering with what the DRI is doing and that as a Assembly committee or as a Assembly, we do not endanger the right to have them submit their report and that they draw conclusions based on that report and take appropriate measures. I hope that in 2010, we will have the opportunity to feel economic improvement. After all, it is also a picture of this budget, but we hope that it will be an opportunity for the state to withdraw to a greater extent from the economy. We believe that the budget is something about the state, but that the state cannot solve the economic problems that exist in the country and that it only needs to create an environment and one framework that will mean investment security, investment security, and that it cannot be an employer in the long term. The fact is, and this rebalancing data shows that, above all, through subsidized loans, the state's action has pump up additional liquidity in the economy and allowed the decline, which is at the end of three percentage points, to be less than it could have been, that the employment drop could not be so dramatic. I have to say that America pumped $800 billion into its economy, and that with 4.5% unemployment jumped to 10%. It is not for comparison, but I think that, with respect for the opposition's views and criticism, we must gather the courage to acknowledge that the government has reacted proactively and has managed to stabilise the fall in the economy with its economic measures. As for the course and the National Bank, it is mentioned here, we will continue to support the idea that we all together support, which is the full independence of the central institution. There is not only a governor in the National Bank, there is a National Bank Council, there is a Monetary Committee, there are people who make decisions there, who have taken responsibility for what they do. We'll always be there for the course to be formed on the market. We cannot be supporters of a fixed course, which may ultimately improve the picture of the situation in certain economic entities, but the price that the citizens will ultimately pay will be high. We will, of course, support this rebalancing. Since we supported the budget, that's quite logical. We will also support this roof law on the Agency for Economic Registers. My fellow MP Jovan Nesovic will talk about it a little bit more, but I think the law is logical. There are two reasons. One is that the Agency has to get powers that it does not have at the moment, and that belong to it by bringing some new laws and competences to the Agency for Economic Registers, and on the other hand there are clear economic effects – savings in reducing the administration because only the Agency will now do some jobs, not parallel institutions. So in voting day next week, I believe that this is a real picture at the end of 2009, that the government was doing its job well and solidly, and that maybe 2010 is an opportunity for even better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34497	Thank you. Are any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us the draft amending and supplementing the 2009 Budget Law, which means budget rebalancing. The SRS will not vote for this rebalancing because it is anti-constitutional, illegal, unrealistic and harmful to the interests of Serbian citizens. Why is he anti-constitutional? Article 92 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions that the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province and the units of local self-government have budgets that must show all incomes and expenditures that finance their competences. In September or early October, we had a imbalance between income and expenditure. The deficit was higher than anticipated by the April 2009 budget rebalance. That moment had to be approached by the rebalancing process. Normally, the finance ministry and the government didn't think about it, and later we'll explain why they didn't go to budget rebalancing. Why is he against the law? Law on the budgetary system in Art. In the 62nd and 63rd, it provides for a procedure when debalancing occurs in the budget, when revenues are insufficient and cannot be objectively and realistically implemented. This is what Article 62 says, "If expenditures increase during the fiscal year," in this case they have increased, "or income cuts", and there has been a decrease in revenue, "the government, on a proposal from the minister, can suspend the execution of individual expenditures no more than 45 days". Furthermore, the law provides for what is to be done in that case. Regulation (EU) No 626/2013 of the European The Budgetary System Act says this way: "A temporary suspension of enforcement can stop the taking of commitments, propose an extension of the contractual payment deadline, stop the granting of approval for the conclusion of the contract, stop the use of quotas." None of this government did. This is about an illegal government store, and she has to answer for it. Why? Because the government's practice will also guide local self-government and autonomous province and public enterprises and the business system will go into those flows in which it cannot be. If this assembly has passed the law, it is the obligation of the executive authorities, in particular the Government, to comply with the laws adopted by the Assembly. Unfortunately, the situation has turned around. Now the government is conducting to the Assembly. Here, this is the case. This is a direct violation of the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. As far as budget rebalances are concerned, the Budgetary System Act provides for the following: ''A budget rebalancing of revenue and expenditure on lower or higher levels or at the same level. If, during the implementation of the temporary suspension measures, the budget deficit does not comply with the possibility of funding, i.e. with the planned deficit within 15 days before the expiry of the period during which the suspension of implementation is carried out, the proposal for budget rebalancing shall be established’. The budget rebalancing proposal was due to be prepared by the finance ministry in September, the government had to adopt it by the end of September and MPs and parliaments had to discuss budget rebalancing in October. Why does it matter? Because we had a huge discrepancy in, first of all, the income side. In fact, the government, proposing a 2009 budget, went with a large amount of revenue, so the budget rebalance took it down to 650 billion. Today we heard from the finance minister that incomes will be slightly below 600 billion. Mrs Dragutinovic, it says here, in the budget rebalancing -- 614,986,971,200. How less than 600 billion? You said -- less than 600 billion, what are the illogicalities in all of this that we've got in budget rebalancing? Here's the next illogicality. At the Ministry of Finance's website, in 11 months, a synthetic indicator - income tax of 81 billion, as charged, and in budget rebalance 71 billion; corporate tax - 35 billion, in budget rebalance 29 billion and five hundred; VAT - 302 billion, in budget rebalance 296 billion, etc. These are the illogicalities that are visible and can be seen. What is important to emphasize – why is he unreal? Because the government did not allow the normal functioning of the overall economic and financial system. That reflects his unrealisticity. Incomes are significantly reduced. As soon as income cuts, there is a logical consequence that it is reduced and spent. This government doesn't want to cut expenses. We have passed two laws on reducing the number of workers in the Republic and local administration, but this is not enough to reduce public spending, which is more than 44% in terms of the 2010 budget. The IMF's request is to reduce and cut public spending. What are you fucking her with? Nothing. This reduction in the number of workers has reduced by several prominions, but what does it mean by percentages from which public spending is alimony and financed? It's not enough. What was done on another basis, not only through the layoff of workers, but in another way to cut costs? In the 2009 budget and budget rebalancing, we went with dozens of amendments that we sought to cut public spending. In what way? Not a cut in personal income. The personal earnings of workers in the state administration are small. That's not what we suggested. We have proposed all other costs – contract services, special services, supply of material, etc. Which one did you accept? Nothing. That's why your volume of public spending is so high. You're still doing nothing to cut him off. The budget deficit in 2007 was 13.5 billion. The 2008 budget deficit -- the plan was 14 billion, the achievement was 45 to the final account, eventually it was corrected, and now the DRI came up with some data and it cut it down, so we'll see what happens to that deficit eventually. But the 2009 deficit is 104 billion. So, compared to 2007, when it was 13.5 billion, it's an increase seven or more times. In 2010, the plan is 107 billion deficits, and it will actually be 130-150. Can we stop it? Mrs Dragutinovic, can the deficit of the budget under these macroeconomic conditions of work be stopped? He can't. You can't stop it because you don't do anything to pump certain active economic policy measures into the budget certain adequate funds and reduce expenditure, reduce public spending. These are the tasks of this authority, but you don't. Furthermore, current account deficits. We're going to have a slightly lower current account deficit this year, not because you've done it to active government and state bodies, but because there have been certain other conditions, and now I'm not going to talk about them. The foreign trade deficit has been reduced by more than 100%. I don't measure government again. Our exports have been reduced, imports have been reduced. That's how we cut our external trade deficit, not our government's active measures. Further, a constant and rapid deficit in the PIO Fund, the Health Insurance Fund and so on. What you don't care about, is that compared to several local self-governments that had a deficit earlier this year, we're going to have a deficit in all self-governments. Why? Because with the 2009 budget, you planned to allocate transfer funds to local self-government 45 billion, you rebalanced it to 25 billion, and all those who planned certain expenditures, launched public procurement, made adequate congregation decisions on the budget for local self-government, planned far more and would come into the stage that it would not have enough. On the other hand, emptying the budget, emptying the funds that are alimony in a transfer sense was far lower than it was... Now, something was fixed in October-November, and you'll probably settle everything that's been missed in December. The entire local self-government will be in the deficit. What's the deficit going to be? I'm sure 20-25 billion dinars. Furthermore, you also allowed the province 4.5 to increase its deficit to 11.5 billion. The budget deficit is now 2009 104 billion. The deficit of local self-government, the deficit of the province, the deficit of the PIO Fund, the deficit of the Health Insurance Fund, the foreign trade deficit, the payment deficit and so on. What perspective are we talking about? In what conditions does economics seem to us? Very difficult, conditions of liquidity, insolvency. Over 70,000 economic operators have been blocked. The total amount at which they are blocked at this point, with the corresponding interest, has grown to, the last data is what can be read on your site, 335 billion. It'll probably be about 350 billion by the end of the year. These were the funds that had to be pumped into the budget and spent on the budget. You miss that. And why did they go to the roadblock? Because they couldn't fight the market. Why didn't they? Because there was a market opening in the previous years, because the subsidies were reduced, because the banks were going with interest rates. They've all been caught and they've come into a position of insolvency and insolvency and blockade. Where are those people who had businesses and who worked in businesses? On the black market. According to economic analysts, the black market currently has three to four billion euros in products and services. It's all done without paying any government fees. Do the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia know that about 10% of GDP is needed on the black market? They know. What do they do to remove that anomaly? They're not doing anything. What is the situation in the field of public and public-community businesses? Of the 590 public and public-public enterprises in the business year 2008, it has been dealing with losses of 580. Only ten public companies did business with profits. Mrs Dragutinovic, what has the state done to help the public-communal system avoid being lost? What did local self-government do? Could local self-government have done anything? No, because you didn't give them as much funds as they were committed to the 2009 budget. Did you have one measure, except that one loan was taken from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which question is when will you arrive, to possibly repair the blood count of the local self-government? In 2008 alone, the loss of the public-communal sector was 650m euros. With all these billions and so on, here's what we didn't have before. Furthermore, out of 100 large businesses 95 were dealing with losses. In 2009, probably 99. What's the loss in 2009? It'll probably be about a billion euros. What are the accumulated losses of large public enterprises and systems? The accumulated losses from 2002 to 2008 are 372 billion dinars, corresponding to four billion euros in figures. We lost the currency by about 20%. Exports are down 22%. We have a tremendous debt, increased duty, and everyone's afraid of borrowing. However, your option is borrowing as the only salvation. But until when and how long? Is there an analysis in the Ministry of Finance and in the Government that will show what to take for, where the priorities in borrowing are, how much will we invest in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, how much for undeveloped areas, how much in employment, how much in priority economic activity? There's no analysis of that. Don't do anything. All that matters is patching up the holes. Who? The big systems that cramp in the losses, but they cramp in the employment of your parties. Speaking of budgets allocated to employees, I'm going to do a little workup. When I said that the SRS didn't propose to limit profits in public enterprises because these workers have very small incomes and small profits, I meant only the state administration. But in public-communal enterprises, in public enterprises founded by the state, wages are 30, 40, and 100 times higher. What did the government do to protect the state interest, to protect the social interest, to cut those salaries? It's a crisis. The burden of the crisis must be borne equally, to prohibit boards and directors from paying such high profits. On the other hand, the state and the government provide guarantees on loans taken by these public enterprises to cover their losses. What needs to be concerned about this government is the high responsibility of the citizens. Citizens are currently in charge of over four billion euros in banks. It's more or less foreign exchange clauses. As one dinar rises from the euro, citizens' commitments increase by 20 billion dinars. It's a huge asset. Business debt is even higher. Indemnity of the economy ranges from 870 to 900 billion. Entrepreneurial debt is about 45 billion. The total is about 1,250 billion in debt to the economy and to the public, 13 billion euros -- this is the state of banking.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34499	Thank you. Since no one is answering from the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, the word has been given by MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34500	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Honored Ministers, are before us four legislative proposals: Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the 2009 Budget of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accounting and Audit, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Commercial Registers and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Insurance. As could be heard, among other things, in the opening presentation of the authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary club, the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Once again, I want to be absolutely clear and precise to say that we will support, first of all, the amendments and additions to the 2009 Budget Law, and in addition to some of the illogical ones that appear at this point, and we believe that this should be spoken of, such as: budget rebalancing after the adoption of the 2010 budget, the budget rebalance should cover only the revenue of the budget, while the expenditure side will form the government of the Republic of Serbia through the current budget reserve, and if this is already proposed, the government should have, my opinion, the situation of positions that will be made less than planned, because by the end of the year, only seven days left. But there should also be some positive trends and developments on the revenue side of the budget. For example, in the first half of the year, the decline in budget revenues began in the last few months of last year. The nominal drop in budgeting in the first half of the year is 7.9% compared to the first half of 2008. However, in the third quarter of the current year, it seems to me that the growth in revenues of 2.6% compared to the same period of the previous year. I think the last quarter will lead to even more positive results. In the structure of income from value added tax, there have been significant changes. The amount and contribution of VAT revenue from import goods and services is reduced, directly due to the growth of the exchange rate and the drastic reduction of imports of goods and services. On the other hand, VAT from the domestic market registered a nominal growth of 38.7% compared to November of the previous year. Gross domestic VAT collection registered a 7% growth, but a high nominal decline of 24.3% compared to the same period of the previous year, which significantly affected the budget revenues achieved under the VAT. The decline in vomiting is not a positive characteristic, as it is due to the decline in exports and vomiting to exporters, i.e. the reduction in investment investments and vomiting for the investment investments made for the own needs of investors. The second revenue for the total revenue of the budget is excise and record a slight increase, resulting from the adopted excise policy in the middle of the year - the rise in oil derivatives prices. As for the spending party, I must point out that measures taken by the government by economic and monetary policy during 2009 have prevented the collapse of the financial and real sector of Serbia's economy and mitigated the impact of the global economic and financial crisis. Based on the forward exposure, despite the fact that the rebalancing has already been carried out during the year, we believe that this proposed rebalancing should be supported. With this, as I would call it, the mini-rebalance increases and determines the final level of deficits in line with the potential for revenue. The projected revenue is in direct correlation with the revised macroeconomic frameworks and indicators, GDP and its components, exchange rate inflation, external trade, etc. The movement of these indicators has contributed to a reduction in planned overall budget revenues by 5.3% compared to the previously adopted rebalancing. As far as accounting and audit laws are concerned, I have to admit that he's too late, too, for the following reasons. On July 16th, it seems to me that in 2009, the government concluded the need to unite the procedure for the registration and processing of financial reports at the Business Registers Agency instead of the National Bank of Serbia, the Centre for Bonity. This is one of the last jobs to be entrusted to the Agency and taken away from once, I would say, the most powerful and most powerful and developed services in Europe, which is the Service of Payments. Then, in a few days, the business year ends, and we're just now laying down the rules. Contracts on the revision of financial reports were signed and delivered to the Ministry of Finance and the basic text of the accounting and audit laws came into force in early June 2009, and we are only now coordinating public oversight of the audit profession with the eighth European Parliament and Council directive, which was adopted on 17 May 2006. What is positive in the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Accounting and Audit, the unification of the status registers and the register of financial reports in one institution is in line with EU practice, contributes to reducing the cost of companies by about 90 million dinars, rationalising the number of employees by about 30%, which is in line with the measures and policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it is also positive to specify certain provisions and address shortcomings in the work which regulates the conduct of audits and supervision of audit houses, which will ultimately affect the quality of work and the quality of audit reports on audit control. It is good to finally specify criteria for the classification of legal persons, which is one of the essential preconditions for considering the scope of financial reporting and the obligation to audit. The reduction in the number of companies subject to the statutory audit will certainly contribute to a better and more efficient audit, given the fact that at this time any authorised audit firm should carry out an average audit of about 160 enterprises and each employee on average 50 enterprises. It is also positive that the problem of translation of international accounting standards will finally be solved, which belongs to the Ministry of Finance, which will publish basic texts, translations and interpretations. At the very end, once again, I want to make it perfectly clear that the SPS-JS MPs' club in voting day will support these legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34501	Thank you. Before I set a break from 13.55 to 14.55, on the basis of article 85, I am informing the National Assembly that today we will be working even after 1800 hours if the item we are now discussing is on the agenda. Given the number of MPs who have applied for the word and time that has already been used, it is easily possible, and we have estimated that, for the completion of the debate on this agenda, which is currently under review, we will miss 10-15 minutes and therefore extend the work even after 1800 hours. A unique search, a third point, will take place on December 23rd, or tomorrow, at the beginning of 10:00 p.m., which means that if we finish today's original search before 6:00 p.m., then we'll announce a break and continue tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. The first registered speaker at 14.55 p.m. is the National MP Zlata Djeric, followed by MP Jovan Nesovic. Thank you. [[After break – 14.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon debate in the order of the Members of the People's Parliaments, according to reports for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on points 11, 12, 13 and 24 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP Zlata Djeric, followed by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President and Madam Minister (who is absent at the moment, which would be the only one who would be able to hear all of our statements and perhaps respond or change something after the debate of the MPs), is today out of the four points of the agenda that we are discussing exactly the one concerning budget rebalancing, i.e. the re-establishment of the balance between income and expenditure in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and for which even the MPs of the majority, I will not say they have expressed their suspicion, but at least they have expressed a mild reprimand to the finance minister for the way in which we adopt this rebalance. First, I'm going to look at the fact that the budget rebalance, which has two-and-a-half sides of a small format, A5 format, is explained on eight of those sides. So, the explanation for which we need to adopt it is much more extensive than the budget rebalance itself, which has been drawn up in some six members, two of which again make it a private rebalancing, as I have spoken about the budget, so they leave the Government free to use funds that are not in a way foreseen by the 2009 Budget Act to some of its needs, arrangements, etc. What's problematic about budget rebalancing is that it comes after the already adopted 2010 budget, which is, in fact, the policy of the final act, because we need to give or not give consent to something that has been actually done. So, it's like when you book something, so you have a category of later brains, someone remembers it couldn't be spent that way. I'm afraid things like that can't go back again, like time can't go back. Why did this happen and this kind of budget rebalance? First of all, because many things planned for 2009 have not been realised, for objective or unobstructive reasons. First of all, inflation, which was projected at 7.5%, came to close to 9%, although we know that this projected inflation in real life really looks different, because all of those things about everyday life are usually in double-digit inflation, and those less important can be classified into that single digit. But what led to budget rebalances? I will read a part of the argument, saying that the annual decline in the physical volume of industrial production in the first six months of 2009 was 15%. The most reduced production of the processing industry is 19.4%, especially its export-based areas, iron production, steel, tyres, plastics, chemical products. The turnover of goods in the retail trade has been relatively reduced in this period by 10.2% compared to the same period in 2008, and tourist traffic, the number of nights of tourists, has dropped by 4%. Construction activity, measured by the value of the works carried out, was reduced by 22.4% in the first half of 2009, physical traffic by 14.8%, volume of postal activity by 2.5%. It's the only increase in telecommunications services. So we have a really worrying decline in any economic activity that, of course, must also result in this kind of need for budget rebalancing in such a, rather problematic way to be found before the MPs of the National Assembly. It can also be monitored and analysed simply through clean numbers, by comparing numbers with what was planned for this time last year, where revenue was intended to be 698.7 billion dinars and then a projected deficit of some close to 50 billion dinars, and that the deficit now came to over 70 billion dinars, and could be viewed as one more complicated analysis, in which logic and the consequences of all that is coming from this budget rebalancing. What caused the deficit to increase, which is why we are forced to adopt budget rebalancing in this way, where he, as I told us, has already been put as a policy of the final act, where there is really nothing to be done, where in every way must the parliamentary majority bring him to vote because things have already been done? We have, first of all, excessive budget spending, and that is what this budget rebalance clearly shows, what the outside points to, what it shows to us all the time, whether it's opposition MPs or economic experts. So we have excessive consumption, which is mentioned by the number of budget consumers, agencies, directorates, ministries and the accompanying administrations that are going with it and which are really enormously burdening the budget. Legal acts have been passed that need to be reduced in some way, but I'm afraid those acts will neither be implemented, and that's what we said, when they're adopted, in the right way, neither will they be realised, nor will there be anything important to change, because we all know and we're all witnesses, I don't think there are any MPs coming from some smaller community, and that there is no witness in its midst that employment in the local government of party personnel is still on stage, and employment in the republican public enterprises is constantly present. I could also tell you the names of institutions and municipalities, including my own, where it's everyday, and where citizens, with their finger, name and last name, point out that we are not consistent, or that we are lying to them. Which is why it seems -- I don't know, and if it's going to be possible to do this and this kind of budget and the Ministry of Finance at all -- I don't know, but in any case, it is present. We are now facing this rebalance in which we must, first of all, resolve two things – to face an increased deficit and that it is important for us to be in art. Four and five. Let the government fill in those gaps in the budget that she's done before, alone, with her own operation. So, we have big social benefits that are really needed and that are unfortunately increasing daily, and we need to work in the state administration, or in order for the state apparatus to work, to also increase budget spending or make up for what has already been spent. It would really be important to do one analysis and put it before MPs, namely the elected representatives of the people, namely in front of the people and the citizens, who are the only real owners of the budget -- why such rigorous government measures, or seemingly rigorous government measures, did not produce the right result and the desired effect. This savings has been announced so much, so much has been media followed and advertised, but the results in budget savings have not been given, and that's why today we are facing exactly this kind of budget rebalance. We haven't been able to stop before, we're not going to be present to this agenda, nor to the rest of the year, further borrowing, and, no matter how justified or reasonable this is, I think we need to turn that tap one day and stop borrowing. We must indeed find some new measures, which we will be able to solve problems in the budget and problems that we will not have in this way, with such humble six members (in fact, only five are operational, the sixth is only information about when it comes into force) we have to implement, without real information on where and how the funds will really be directed to Articles 4 and 5, how much these funds are and how they will be distributed to budget users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34504	The People's MP Jovan Nesovic has the word, followed by the MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34505	The Honorable Chairman, respected Mrs. Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is before us today the second budget rebalance for 2009, and the purpose of the rebalancing is to coordinate the receipts and expenditures in the budget within a calendar year. If we look at the figures, we'll see that this 2009 budget changes the revenue side. With 649.4 billion, as planned by the 2009 budget rebalance, this other rebalance changes the revenue side to about 615 billion dinars, meaning the budget deficit is increasing by 34.4 billion dinars. This means that there will be around 105 billion dinars in 2009 and that is a budget deficit agreed with the IMF and something taken over by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is also important to look at items that change on the revenue side of the 2009 budget. You will see that the income tax is reduced from 81 billion to 71 billion, corporate profit taxes are also reduced, domestic VAT on domestic products and products from abroad is approximately down by 2%, about three hundred billion dinars, excise taxes are also at the level planned, customs are increased from 42.6 billion to 47.5 billion, so growth is by 11.5%. This is important because many have argued that unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement will affect the reduction of customs revenues. Something's happened the other way around. In addition to obtaining certain benefits, which means that the application of the Agreement by the EU, a trade act, in fact, when we unilaterally applied the Agreement, there was no major damage, as customs duties increased by nearly five billion dinars. The rest of the income, which is related to certain administrative fees and fines, has been reduced from 63.1 to 44 billion. When all these revenues are looked at, the impact of the global economic crisis on the real sector is the one that has led to the reduction of these revenues. We must also remember that the crisis in the state of Serbia began at the end of 2008 and continued in 2009. The colleagues said that the biggest decline in production was in industrial production, i.e. processing, around 15%, in the store is 10%, in construction (which is also very important, since the construction industry, i.e. the construction industry that drives a series of long branches of economy), is a decline of 22.4%. Telecommunications services increased by 27.3% and agriculture by 2.5%. When all is added and subtracted, then GDP in 2009 fell about three, three points something percent and inflation would be about 7.5%. We can criticize that it could have been better or worse. To be perfectly honest, if we look at countries in the environment, we will see that the decline in social product is significantly greater in Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia, Hungary and we must also recognise that these were countries that were far higher at the time of the start of the economic crisis than the state of Serbia. Could the fall have been bigger? He could certainly have been bigger, and the reason he remained at 3% is the measures the government of the Republic of Serbia seemed to have made in time. The first measures were already defined in 2008. Let's remember, when, at the end of 2008, there was a withdrawal of a large number of savings deposits from banks, when about 900m euros were withdrawn, when many predicted that there would be a collapse of the banking system in Serbia, the government came out with two important measures, to ensure the level of deposits in the hand-to-hand savings at 50,000 euros and that capital gains tax on savings is not charged in 2009. This led to us now having in the banking system savings somewhere over five billion euros. On the other hand, the government also immediately adopted a package of measures directly related to the economy in early 2009. One of the packages is related to increasing the liquidity of the economy and investment investments in the economy. The government then decided to only subsidise the reduction in interest rates, and that banks, which will review the economic programmes, assess and allocate loans. So it wasn't the government who decided with the business banks, but was tasked only to lower the interest rate over the part that she participated in subsidising that interest rate. Furthermore, she went out with a purchase program for domestic products, also through credit, and there was a considerable amount of about one billion, and also, in September, to speed up the construction industry, a subsidisation of housing loans was introduced, but only in new construction. It is also an important indicator that from March to October it has been approved through banks, directly for the economy, over nine hundred million euros, which, I am absolutely sure, has improved both investment projects in the economy and liquidity of businesses. It seems to me that there should also be a good side in 2009 that the decline in gross social product was not as it was in countries around over 5% and that, as predicted, it would be five to six, even seven percent mentioned, it has already remained and remained at three percent. It also seems important to me that something that the Government did in 2009, directly helped the economy in exchange, what was called "old for new", and it also played a role for several companies, such as FAP from Pribo, IMT - tractor production, "punta" in Kragujevac, old cars, so it seems to me that these measures in 2009 were quite appropriate and give optimism that we will succeed in 2010 what the government and projected, which is that the growth of gross domestic product is 1.5%. Looking at all this, I'm sure G17 plus in voting day will support the 2009 budget rebalance. The second law refers to amendments to the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers. The Law on the Agency for Economic Registers was passed in 2004 and so far, many amendments have occurred, the Agency's work has been expanding and amendments to this law have been necessary. To remind us, in 2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed a series of laws that prescribed the introduction of certain new registers and records, and it is necessary for these businesses to be carried out by the Agency for Economic Registers. This was to be incorporated into the Business Registers Agency Act, so Article 2 relating to Article 4 of the basic law, was defined as carrying out the activities of the Register of Business Entities, the Register of Publishing Rights of Movement and Rights, the Register of Financial Lising, which has been so far, and is now being extended to the register of public journals, associations, foreign associations, measures and incentives for regional development, chambers and tourism. Since we adopted the Banking Act a few days ago, the Agency for Business Registers will also run registration masses, as well as a register on registration of financial reports, legal entity credits and entrepreneurs, starting in 2010. This last one is also very important, because it will always be on the site and anyone who wants to find the company's credit rating in the state of Serbia will be able to simply get it free of charge from the Agency for Business Registers, the Agency for Business Registers, and I think it's an important thing in business of businesses in Serbia. The law also provides for better financial management of the Agency for Business Registers. It is here defined that the Agency for Economic Registers by December 15th brings its financial plan for the current year, to which the government gives its consent. It is also defined by law that if the revenues of the Agency for Business Registers are higher than their expenditures, the profit goes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the possibility is left to, if some revenues in the course of the year are not enough to cover the costs of the Agency, it can in some way be added to the budget by certain means and the functioning of the Agency. Since the Agency reports on its work directly to the Ministry, or to the Government, it is then defined by the law that there is no longer a Supervisory Board of the Agency and that means that the number of people to be financed by certain public funds is reduced. And it's all going towards reducing the administration and reducing the number of people doing certain jobs. The Board of Directors shall remain and shall be defined precisely what tasks the Director shall carry out and what tasks the registrar shall carry out. It seems good to me that this law defines the Agency as having an internal audit obligation, it also has an external audit obligation once a year, and that is all in the spirit of better financial management, i.e. better management of the Agency for Economic Registers, which is also the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me, in the end, that this law fully supports the great effort of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and thus the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Agency for Economic Registers, which is the introduction of a one-stop shop system for the start of business of economic operators. So far, on average, business registration has lasted around 23 days. It was necessary to go to four public institutions. Today, it takes about five days and ends up at the Agency for Business Registers. The Agency for Business Registers is the one that takes data from the Tax Administration on PIB, takes data from the PIO Fund and health insurance and now those jobs that once the economic operators themselves had to do to be registered to the Agency for Business Registers for their purposes, which means that it is speeding up and simplifying the process, which is the intensity of both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resord Ministry. Taking into account the other two proposals and these proposals, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group believes that these laws are necessary at this point, I am primarily thinking of amending and supplementing the Budget Law, and that the laws on the Agency for Economic Registers and the other two laws of good law, and in the Voting Day will support all four proposals and calls on the other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34506	Twelve minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The word is made by the People's MP Slobodan Maras, followed by the MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34507	Dear Vice-Presidents, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, December 2008, desloratadine LDP -- an agreement for Serbia's future to work, that was before the 2009 budget was adopted. At that time, we drew your attention that the coming crisis should not strike the most healthy part of society, the one who works, in the middle class, then we told you that VAT must be formulated differently, i.e. to introduce a charge only for the realization of work and to collect claims, then we said that it takes 12 ministries, that the state should first show that it comes from itself when it comes to saving, and we are glad that in some positions and representatives of the government, or ministers, they are now coming to such positions, but it should be carried out in action. In this budget rebalancing, we have the following argument - that, with the fall of industrial production, construction activities etc., there is also an increase, i.e. the growth of gross added value in the first term of 2.5% of agriculture. But as hypocritical as it is in the 2010 Budget Proposal, that is to say, by following the law, and also by the Pension-Inhabitation Act, that pensions are frozen, despite the amendments submitted by the LDP, the following data – when it comes to agricultural pensioners, all commitments made in 2009 will only be paid in 2011. It is also interesting that on the Committee on Agriculture, when we discussed the 2010 budget, the PUPS representative left the session, took the quorum, and we couldn't get an opinion just when we were waiting for the reply of the Assistant Finance Minister, which is why it was only delayed for 2011. So let's remember, colleagues will remember, last year, when agriculture laws were adopted here, when Minister Dragin was, at least 20 times I asked him how it was possible for the government to adopt a regulation saying that everyone who sows on that hectare so much through diesel, fertilizer, etc. would be subsidized after 20 days to bring a new regulation that excludes agricultural pensioners. I asked 20 times and I didn't get an answer 20 times. Then, this transfer of the ball to someone else's yard and an attempt to show how it takes care of one layer of the population, very large, very endangered, through their freezing pensions, without any desire to make any deal that the LDP has been insisting on for a year and a half. In this budget rebalancing, we do not see in any item where the losses of public enterprises, such as those of public enterprises, Mrs Kalanovic, are expected to provide guarantees in 2010. Among other things, one of these public enterprises is subsidized by 12 billion, 11 and a half billion of which goes to wages. I'm talking about the railroad. What are the losses of public enterprises? We also don't see how much profits are made from these public enterprises, as we learn from the information funds that, say NIS, which now operates by being the Russian side's majority partner, there are several billion in both the second and third quarters. Of course, it no longer flows into the Republic of Serbia's budget, at least as much as it was due by 31 December 2008. We also have a public company "The Railways of Serbia". The state will provide guarantees of 800m euros and some million euros and $600m next year for Railways. And the same railroad, I have to tell you... Last time I said that one of those who sits on the Management Board owns a company that's not registered, or is not in the Business Registers Agency. Today we learned that he is in fact at the Agency for Business Registers and that he owns the SUR "Tamara". And now one such gentleman, I suppose, is capable, but he's on the board of directors of a public enterprise that the state subsidizes with 12 billion. I repeat, 11.5 billion are only going to pay. It is a completely wrong way of conjecturing the 2010 budget, but it is not surprising because it was said to have come from the 2009 budget. We have a lot of understanding about the conditions in which the government works. It's really not easy when your economy isn't working. It is really not easy when the global economic crisis has left a mark on the very Republic of Serbia. But the attempt to avoid the reforms that are necessary and that would bring improvement to this country is absolutely incredible. There's something else I don't understand. Here, in this proposal for rebalancing, it is said that the share of excise duty is reduced by the consumption of motor gasoline. How, then, did NIS make such a profit in 2009 if the consumption of motor gasoline was reduced? I really don't get it. To conclude, the LDP cannot support this rebalancing. We believe that there are many solutions that suggest that the 2010 budget will be put on the burden of middle class, placed on the burden of those who work and with no chance for young people. This is what we tried and in the 2010 budget debate to draw attention to, to try to make a joint agreement, that we who have opportunities and those younger than us get the opportunity to work and create some new value from which our older citizens will also be able to live in a way that is worthy. So LDP won't support this 2009 budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34508	Seven minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Janko Veselinovic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34509	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I will speak of two laws – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Insurance. Amendments to the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers constitute a proposal that further introduces order in the field of registration of economic operators, changes that arise in their status, as well as other circumstances relevant to legal certainty, in particular third parties entering into business relations with them. We left the period when keeping records of economic operators was inadequately arranged, with a lot of inadequacy. These amendments, in addition to the register of companies, have the obligation to keep and establish records of associations, foreign associations, chambers, registers of tourism, the register of measures and incentives for regional development, public reports and other registers. All this information will be made available to citizens, available to the public, most importantly. What is the benefit of this for society, economy and citizens of Serbia? The registry will provide accurate insight into the legal status of companies, as well as NGOs and other organisations registered with the Agency. This will achieve a higher level of legal certainty, and interested parties will be able to gain insight into these data. The possibility of misleading, which we have had so far, will be reduced, and very often there have been very harmful consequences for third parties. This law provides for the connection of this register by electronic means to the databases conducted in Serbia and other countries, as well as the connection with other users via the telecommunications network and computer media. This is crucial for the smooth and timely access to the necessary data by all state authorities, which is very important, as well as by interested persons and economic operators. This is expected to lead to the application of imperial norms related to the ban on participation in the commercial traffic of persons who, by misuse of positions due to insufficient information, have damaged third parties. These amendments to the Law complete the legal arrangement of the territory of the non-governmental sector, as well as the application of the Law on Tourism, the Law on Regional Development and the Law on Public Information. As an MP, I am pleased that the organisation of this area and the creation of greater legal certainty are part of the Democratic Party programme, part of all those jobs that are being built by Serbia in order, modern, European society and modern country. I will also be happy to vote in favour of the law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on social security. This law provides for the existence and fair payment of pensions for more than 10,000, i.e. 10,175 of our citizens and members of their families who have earned their pension by working in enterprises in the Republic of Slovenia. It's about discharging our pension fund and a new foreign exchange inflow. Our pensioners, after all, will get all the benefits in full, as they deserve. The most important thing is to correct this injustice against our citizens. The key is, however, that our diplomacy, I would say to the Government and the President of the Republic, is to create the necessary conditions to come to this agreement at all, that it be concluded with the Republic of Slovenia. It's a direct benefit, which citizens, by name and last name, and their families can feel. Of course, as is the benefit for Serbian citizens to travel freely to EU countries, to have a fair and effective trial, road safety, ultimately, a regulated state. Since the collapse of the SFRY, many people have, in addition to the fact that they have lost their home, lost individual property rights. They've lost their pensions. After 18 years and years of negotiations, the agreement was concluded and the injustice was corrected. The DS advocates the protection of all individual and collective rights of Serbs and other citizens from the resulting 1990s war. It's maturity and the ability to solve specific citizens' problems. In Serbia, 5.9m euros will be poured into Serbia annually under this agreement with Slovenia, almost sixm euros on behalf of pensions each year, plus a million and two hundred million euros annually for health insurance, representing 700,000 euros at the annual level of the Republic of Serbia's foreign exchange inflow, used by its citizens. The agreement will allow for pension rights of Serbian citizens who have achieved part of the job in Slovenia and the citizens of Slovenia who have achieved part of the job experience in Serbia. The agreement also contains provisions on the exercise of pension, disability, health insurance rights, including labour and occupational illness rights and unemployment rights. The direct payment of benefits to the user as well as the use of healthcare for persons who have residence or residence on the territory of another State are the basic principles of this Agreement. The agreement also established the re-determination of pensions, i.e. pensions recognised by the competent institution of one country from 8 October 1991 until the date of entry into force of this Agreement, by official duty, in a way that each country assumes its own burden of payment for an internship completed on its territory. To conclude, the Republic of Serbia, by signing this agreement, or by ratifying it in the Serbian Parliament, will stop the obligation to pay pensions for 10,175 pensioners and the commitment will be made by the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we will not forget the pensioners of the Republic of Croatia and the right to a backlog of pensions that have not yet been made, regardless of the agreement concluded, similar to that of Slovenia. However, lagging pensions have not been defined, nor have they been the subject of the agreement. It is certainly a new task for all state authorities, but in some way also the obligations of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, DS MPs will be happy to vote for both these laws and laws that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34510	Nine minutes and twenty-five seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Zoran Shami has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34511	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and Madam Minister, first of all, allow me to have a digression. Yesterday, and today, we had a merger debate on agenda points that unfortunately had nothing to do with each other. That's how we talked about the fires yesterday, so we talked about the law on administrative disputes... And what does this have to do with the visa waiver law with Israel? Today we are talking about budget rebalancing, so we are talking about, for example, the Agency for Business Registers and the Agreement with Slovenia on Social Insurance, which also has nothing to do with each other. I know that, if Mrs. President of the Assembly were here, she would have replied that it was the Assembly's vote, but you know how, the assembly majority can vote that today is Friday, but that still doesn't knock down the fact that today is, however, Tuesday. Mrs Dragutinovic, as the people say, has escaped from the Assembly, but I have a lot of understanding about it because it obviously needs to defend something that is not defensive. If I'm not mistaken, and I don't think anyone's gonna argue with that, it's December 22nd. So, on 22 December 2009, we are discussing budget rebalancing for 2009. Namely, what does it mean when the Assembly votes budget or budget rebalance? This practically means that the Assembly gives the government permission to make some money and also gives the government permission to spend that money. Of course, it's the usual thing to make rebalancing, it's nothing new and negative, but I would understand that we discussed this rebalancing in September, even in October, when we have a vision of how much we can spend, how much we earn, etc., and then it would make sense to enter the numbers, the amount of income, the amount of expenditure, etc. No, we've been given the actual state of affairs here today, and we need to name what the government in the meantime, in fact, illegally, has spent. As we've been informed, the deficit will be 50% higher than planned, instead of 70 billion will be 104 billion, for the simple reason, which is the income so much smaller. And when the budget was made a year ago, and during the rebalancing in April, I remember what was said in the Assembly. That's when I said on behalf of the DSS -- God forbid we make 95% of the incomes we planned, I even explained it. That's what we've accomplished. We've made 94 and some percent of the revenue planned. We can understand the reasons, because we predicted them in advance, but then it was normal for the budget rebalancing to come out in September or October, and not to verify, on December 22nd, something that the government apparently committed. Because this is already a felony, a punishable offense. It, you know, comes about like that-- a thief robs a bank, then passes the law as a bank robbery is allowed. It's just that, unfortunately, this isn't about robbing a bank, it's about robbing a state or, rather, robbing its citizens. I have to say, I don't have a better word for it, this government is a miracle. A miracle, gentlemen. Because it should be not only bravado and ossion, but also top-notch rude to go to the Assembly with a budget rebalancing on December 22nd. I'm sorry, I don't like big words, but I can't find any easier. So I don't know what we're discussing right now. We can only discuss whether there will be a congregation majority here. Yesterday we saw when we were voting on the budget that she wasn't actually here. However, there is, because there is always a Halimi or Damjanovic or already as they are called, so far it is found, but apparently the majority who chose this government yesterday on the budget has not worked, and what that means is known. And Mr. Canak, although my political inexperience, was quite right last night, when he said – there is no congregation majority. Do whatever you want, but what you're doing is irresponsible and not good for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34512	Six minutes and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Mrs Dragutinovic's Finance Minister is not here, but I think she's the only one who's competent to tell us about the budget and everything that's been going on with us in the last year's public finances. Perhaps the 2010 budget is the first budget to have an entry for EU pre-accession funds, but I must say that this is also the first budget rebalance this assembly will adopt, and the budget for next year has already been adopted. And it's exactly what we of the SNS warned you about when it was the 2009 Budget Act and when we discussed the rebalancing of the same budget. Now, at the end of the fiscal year, we see that all of our warnings, which, with a smile and a contempt, have been refused, are seen precisely in this draft budget rebalance for 2009, which we are discussing on December 22nd. We've been warning you all along that the revenue side of the 2009 budget is unrealistic. As a result, we now have new debt from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. citizens, for about 400m euros. This is the result of fiscal policy in 2009, plus those 292 billion euros we have already committed in the same year. To remind ourselves, the first budget of the five-octobar change amounted to about 120 billion dinars. Then you reformed the tax system, you fiscalized Serbia, and the budget came to some 360 billion dinars. Until then, these were the real financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, although fiscal burdens were high both per citizen and per economy. Now we have a budget of over 700 billion dinars and I'm asking you all who are going to vote here for this rebalancing -- are the Serbian citizens' and businesses' revenues increased six times compared to 2001, is the standard six times higher than in 2001, or do we have only six times greater multiplication of the state administration that spends all these funds being raised from taxes? We shouldn't go any further, we shouldn't look any further, it's enough to see the Serbian Parliament, look at the number of employees that were in 2001 and how many there are now. Although some of the powers of the federal state have passed over to the authority of the Republic Assembly, such an increase in the number of employees cannot be justified. Then I can only imagine what's in the rest of the state administration. By that year 2004 and 2005, as I said, budget financing was more or less realistic, with great fiscal burdens and economies and citizens. Then you discovered loans, securities of value, records, and then we went to a madhouse, which Dinkic once portrayed as a surplus. He's broadcasting state records of value, so he says we don't spend that much. Then came the current prime minister for the finance minister, and he showed the deficit according to the same budget, and then, on top of all that, as a cream on this madhouse you've made, the global economic crisis came. You are justifying new responsibilities that we, like Serbia, are not an overindebted country and that there are many worse ones than we are. Give an example, let's say, Greeks. Let's just leave that kind of idea behind. They have built infrastructure and have huge revenues. Wherever you turn, there are no customs zones. I'm not worried about them, they have a way to get those loans back, and we're raising loans to finance the state administration, not develop infrastructure. We take loans to develop, say, tourism, and we have no roads for tourists to reach our destinations. So how do you think we repay these new loans? That they approach this business quite unseriously, dishonestly and just to justify it, they strike a balance between the revenue and the expenditure side of the budget, is evidence of this rebalancing. Some items in it cannot be justified against the rebalancing that was in April. For example, the income tax item of citizens is now, in December, 10 billion dinars smaller than it was planned with rebalancing in April, although all tax returns were submitted far before this April rebalancing was put into the procedure and voted. The company's profit tax is lower by 5.5 billion dinars. That's quite understandable, and that's what we've warned you about. Many companies showed a loss or reduction of their profits due to the coverage of the exchange rate differences created from September to December of last year. The fact that only in 2010 will happen to us with these things, when all those loans that were returned from January to the end of this year and all the companies will show a loss on the exchange rate for loans they took during 2008, you will see how much income will then be based on the income of the company. On the other hand, this whole crisis was only appropriate to the banking sector. I have to look back, because the exchange rate difference in them is called interest, interest is free of tax payments, so the banking sector is at this point the most profitable in Serbia and I can say that the banks are with us without any healthy competition. Of course, this includes the G17 and the National Bank, which make it difficult for any other bank, except for these existing ones, to be found on the domestic market. There's one more thing that's amazing about this rebalancing. For example, taxes on product sales -- smaller by 360 million dinars. Again, the information you operated on was presented in April, and as early as January 1st you had that information, it was quite accurate. So, the goal was to balance only the revenue side of the budget against the expenditure and to keep the potential deficit, at least then, as much as possible hidden. It is surprising that customs duties are charged in a larger amount than planned for five billion dinars, but not the amount itself as the amount planned, but surprises why the value added tax from imports is charged in the amount of less than 21 billion dinars, which also shows that those who designed the revenue side of the budget or did not know their job, or they only had one goal, which is that the future deficit does not show up in the rebalance in April, but now. The rebalancing itself has no expense, and the spending side remains as it is. So there's no savings in the domain of public spending. No ministry, no administration, no agency made any savings during 2009, and for almost a year you've been talking about how you're going to reduce the state administration, how you're going to reduce public spending, how it's the only way to get the country out of this crisis that it's gone to, not by the blame of the global economic crisis, but by the guilt of the irresponsible people who led this country. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to do it again, which is not the finance minister, because I'd like to see who the legal persons who got the subsidized loans are at 3%. I don't think they exist, because 3% plus the eurobor interest is about 5%. I haven't found any dinar credit with a 10% interest in the offer. No bank has ever operated on any of these banks. If that's what someone got, they got a small number of legal entities that are probably connected in a certain way to the authorities. There's another problem that the finance minister has put out here as a lie, which is that loans are approved by banks and loans provided by banks. That's not true either. Credits for the Development Fund, supporting documentation, preparing banks. They don't approve of bank funds, they approve of the Development Fund, and there's a contract and there's a contractual clause that if... Don't, Mrs. Kalanovic, make me go and download the e-mails I got from the banks. So unless the Development Fund provides the funds and the bank pays, it will be accounted for under other conditions. One more thing, if the Development Fund approves and provides funds, how do banks get loans with a currency clause to be placed on their sales rate, and businesses and citizens return these loans to the purchase rate? They say it's their only margin. How is it to be their only margin, if the state subsidizes and touches the difference between the margin they had? What's their margin if the credit fund provides the Development Fund? Their margin is payment traffic. Their margin is when we process the data. This is the problem, because Serbia does not have its own development bank and does not have a bank through which it will place the funds itself, but also from what little resources you provide for citizens and businesses do not benefit those to whom these funds are intended, but the benefits only come from banks. That's the problem the whole time you came to power. I'd like someone, not from these authorities, but from those who point out that they're going to vote for this budget rebalance and follow the laws, at least one fellow MP stands up and says where we're going to go and how to repay these loans. One hand is empty, and the other has nothing. Or is it all here that support the majority and their representatives in the government that doesn't care how credits return, rather than the goal of survival until the next election? I'd say that's what interests the current ruling majority most. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, Serbia does not need agencies, administrations, offices, or decentralisation, when you give local self-government more and more authority, and you do not give them real sources of funding. Serbia needs factories and jobs. When you start thinking about it, we can talk about being good to the state. For now, it seems to me that most people only think of themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34514	From the time of the parliamentary group, 14 minutes and 40 seconds have been used. The word has been given by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34515	Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened carefully to the address of Minister Dragutinovic and the first thing we have noticed is, also reading the text of the rebalancing, that the essence of this text is whether GDP will be smaller, whether it will be larger, whether the IMF has given this assessment of GDP. For most of our citizens, that's an abstract term, that's more than clear. On the other hand, economic theory cannot be said that GDP shows the whole reality of the situation. If the IMF, which, least of all, is not a well-intentioned organization, that forecasts growth about 1.5% for next year, that doesn't mean anything. It's just one promise, which should show in practice that we'll be better, and that, when you see the definition of GDP, is not true at all. I'll give you an example. The GDP of the Republic of Serbia also includes income from exports made by Sartid. If you convince me that Sartid is a Serbian company and that this income belongs to us, not the United States, then we can say that GDP is the right indicator. We think it would be much better to use some other economic indicator, such as the social development index, which has been used in the UN since 1990, where the number of people who have enrolled in primary school, high school, mortality, indicators showing health care, and then we would get the real results of this so-called. transitions. The reason for the rebalancing is that there is a minus 6% balance of payments. Our citizens also don't understand what it means -- what it's 6%, how much money it is, where that money goes. But when you look at the economic definition of the balance of payments, it will be clear to you that it includes exports, imports, travel, remittances from abroad, diplomatic representations (including the three that are planned in Brussels, so-called Vojvodina, this with NATO and the EU), interest, all financial transactions, international loans and transactions from the Central Bank. When you divide that number with the amount of GDP this year, we come up with a two-billion-euro figure. The two billion euros do not stay in Serbia, but are heading towards the West. And that's the real point, the real truth, the so-called truth. our economic policies, so-called transitions – money does not go from the EU and from the West to Serbia, but it does, the balance of payments shows, in the opposite direction. So, first of all, we need to tell the truth, so there may be some conclusions on how this economic situation can be improved. When you look at the letter of intent sent by our government, the finance minister, the governor and the Prime Minister, you will see that it promises so-called. freeze of wages and pensions. I'm responsible for saying that's not true. If targeted inflation is assumed to be about 6%, next year there will be a pension drop and a 6% profit. So freezing and falling are two different concepts, and that should be made clear to our citizens. We also think that the IMF's basic policy, which apparently runs the country's economy, is a little more freely expressed -- the fight against Serbian pensions, the fight against 1,600,000 people in this country. This is the IMF's basic policy. Why? Because he's trying to further tax that pension tax, which is, if I'm not mistaken, about two billion euros. On the other hand, you have the income of Delta in one year of the same two billion euros. Instead of having the IMF give us some guidance that this monopoly, which doesn't hide at all, will be in the next, i.e. This year, having 15% higher income, additionally taxing, the IMF's criticism edge is directed towards pensioners. It's not fair, it's not a social state, it's a state and a policy that defends the rich, which defends the oligarchs. And that should be said clearly, not avoiding that topic, saying whether big public spending, whether pensions threaten us or not. I'm saying no. These are our fellow citizens, these are our closest, these 1,600,000 pensioners are not some abstract personalities. On the other hand, you have one company that, at the very least, can help the social situation in this country. Why didn't the IMF suggest that if our government didn't already have the political courage to do it? As far as IMF policy is concerned, the best example is Latvia. You know what happened in Latvia. You must know that Sweden is sending huge amounts of humanitarian aid to Latvia this month. It's a country that's in the European Union, it's supposed to be right in front of us. He gets food, medicine, humanitarian aid. How is it possible if there is a paradise in the EU, if the IMF is correct, if Latvia has applied all the conditions that have followed the acquisition of that loan? Then there's something wrong with that neoliberal dogma. In today's discussion, Greece was mentioned. It is true that Greece has 300 billion euros in debt, it is true that they have had a huge budget deficit (that is why elections are called, it is no secret). The budget deficit was hidden, amounting to about 12.5% of GDP. The Greeks reported it to be 9%, and the European Union is asking them to be 3%. However, Mr. Papandreou, who can't be prodigal or so-called. populists, no matter what it means in the political correctness of Western media, which, as you know, was even born in America, which never hid that US affection, has openly said in this month that Greece will not apply the IMF and EU recipe, and that Greece will create its programme of exit from the crisis. Commenting on Mr Papandreou's view of the government, the Daily Telegraph, which can also not be said to represent some social justice, moreover, wrote that this is the right attitude, that this is the attitude that will distance Greece from the devastating consequences of so-called. IMF therapy. No dogma is good. No one here calls for self-insulation, no matter what it means, or war with the world. However, there should be critical access to everything, including the IMF. Unfortunately, in our public, in the government, especially in the economic part of the government, the IMF is glified beyond any measure, although the IMF is currently working against your authority, because it undermines the social base, undermines society, undermines the granting of municipalities, health care, and, finally, as its main goal, is to destroy our pensioners. That should be made clear. Besides, that's Mr. Simon Gray not hiding. You know for sure about that project "How to do with less," which is, of course, a nebulous title, where you're looking for an even bigger pension reduction, a change in the date when you're going to retire and everything that's negative for our health and education. So, it is considered even that 5% of the GDP for education is much, although in Hungary 6% is given 6%, in Croatia, and 6% is not enough because, if not, why would the top party in Hungary's Fides say that Hungary did not get anything from the EU at the moment. It's a reality for Eastern Europe. For Western Europe, it's certainly different. After all, Mr Dinkic also said that we are in fact financing social peace, paraphrasing, in the West, because here are the biggest interest in the region, and probably in Europe. Things are clear, but there should be political will, that there is a will to tax monopolies, banks, the protection of our pensioners, and there would be no need for this rebalance, which is essentially very harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34516	Nine minutes and fifteen seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Kenan Hajdarevic, followed by National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34517	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the budget rebalance is an opportunity for today, in December 2009, to talk about the economic sphere of social life in this year, an opportunity that the finance minister today did not use to answer the simple question - what happened to those projections that she spoke about exactly a year ago, when she defended the 2009 budget and the economic sphere of life. This response is more necessary for citizens, and less for the MPs, but we from the LDP will insist on these answers because we insisted in an October debate on the assembly speaker and said that the effects of the global economic crisis, together with our internal problems, will have the greatest impact on the decline of citizens' standards in 2009. That's when the finance ministry and the Serbian government said we were calling and even accusing us of panicking. Also in December of last year, as my colleague Maras said, we gave in the 2009 LDP manifesto "A deal for the future - Serbia to work! "what is necessary for Serbia to do in this 2009 to take advantage of the opportunity and finally complete the transition process in which Serbia is located. Also, the motive that we can ask that question and ask the Ministry of Finance for answers is what we said in 2006. At that time, in 2006, we wrote in the "Modern Economy" that it is necessary to freeze pensions and salaries in the public sector and finally establish co-operation with the IMF. All I'm talking about is enough to take seriously those projections we're talking about for 2010. Also, the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia must be brave and tell citizens that this country will be worth as much as it does, that we are being constrained by markets where we can place our products because of poor foreign policy, because we are fighting with countries in the region. The economic measures discussed today by the finance minister, who was taken in 2009, have helped the economy somewhat. However, these economic measures did not remove the causes of the problems of Serbia's current economy. And the reason for our internal problems is the fact that we have been creating Serbia for eight years, that is, we have started the privatisation process and we haven't finished it yet. The fact is that the crisis has delayed reforms, that after the last elections, we had to get a budget based on public sector reform, but we got a budget that is expansional. Due to the crisis, public spending, or budget, as the finance minister said today, is taking the burden of slowing down recession and the minister here had to say real projections for 2010. Because, as she said today, we will end this year with a 3% GDP drop, some economists say even 4% compared to 2008. The next year envisions a growth of 1.5% of GDP, but this is growth compared to 2009. If it is known that the potential growth of the Republic of Serbia's GDP is at 5% annually, we get that the decline in the GDP of the Republic of Serbia for 2009 is about 9%. If these growth forecasts are taken of 1.5% for 2010, we get the figure that the decline in Serbia's GDP in 2010 is projected to be 13% compared to 2008. On the other hand, we are coming to the fact that the government predicts that only in 2011 will we reach a rate of potential growth, which is a rate of 5%, i.e. that the fall of 13% is a permanent decline. It also raises the question of how we can reach a 5% growth rate and how to maintain it. Because Serbia is a country where industry is destroyed, and no country can think about its development and growth unless it has a strong industry. We have come into a situation where our education system is such that we create people who have only a dream of how to get a job in a state-owned company, or in a state service. All those interests that need to strengthen our industry are in the seal. This is what the LDP says when we ask for an intergenerational agreement, because no country, with such a structure as Serbia, can endure, developing only those service-related industries. We must finally develop industry. When we talk about industry, we need to complete the privatisation process as soon as possible and, most importantly, we need to restore our reputation as a state in the countries that are bordering us. Because where will the businessmen, or the economy of Sandzak, export, if it isn't Montenegro or BiH, who will we co-operate with if not with Kosovo Albanians? When we talk about government measures, which are related to subsidisation and economics, or credit, I must also point to one problem that occurred in 2009, which is a delay in implementing decisions made by the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're coming into a situation where businesses or citizens can't accomplish everything that the government and the ministries have drawn, because we have too much bureaucratic apparatus. We have to solve this in the next year, 2010 because it costs a lot for the economy to be late from seven to ten days. It may mean nothing to someone sitting in an office, but for a company, that means survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34518	The LDP parliamentary group is available for another minute. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, and after that, MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34519	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that there is no Ms. Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, because I will begin my presentation from what she said in the opening statement today. When she spoke of the need for rebalancing, Mrs Dragutinovic told us that the problem was not in the Serbian government, but in circumstances and conditions. Also, from all the instructions as they planned the costs, how many inflows, it explained very directly to us that the government of Serbia, the finance minister and the finance ministry are not able to plan well, nor are they able to predict how much inflows can be in the budget, and that we are not talking about expenditures. The government of Boris Tadic, acting in absentia in Serbia by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, has shown that respect for the law is so important to her, that you cannot imagine. As the Budgetary System Act is respected, I'll only explain a few examples. So, the Budget System Law makes it very clear that when revenues are less than projected, the finance minister has a legal obligation to balance budget expenditures with inflows. In other words, it does what every host and housewife do in their own house - to spend on their own options. This government didn't do it. She only found that in April there is a deficit of 70 billion, that today there is a deficit to it plus 34, means 104 billion, which, translated into euro, would be about 1.1 billion euros. So the deficit was found to be that high, but it was continued to be spent, wasteful and arrogant. I only mention the State Auditing Institution report, which we have repeatedly mentioned about what has been found and how this report has been disclosed and how ministers and prime ministers addressed the public when they found out about the report - accused coffee cooks and accountants of blaming them for all the billions and millions spent by ministers. What's against the law in today's rebalancing? We had an official rebalancing in April, which was voted in this assembly, and then the deficit is scheduled to be 70 billion dinars. Today we're talking about the 104 billion dinar deficit. How did the government now make another flaw, for which it did not have permission from the Assembly? So, the government is completely unauthorized, legally punishable, and spent 34 billion. I find it very interesting to follow, and I will follow it safely and address the public from this pay phone, whether anyone in the government will be responsible for the fact that the government, represented by Prime Minister Cvetkovic, has spent another 34 billion, without being allowed to do so. You don't have the Parliament's permission for that 34 billion. I expect that, in addition to all those reports by the State Auditing Institution, besides the Fiat, besides the pension scandal, someone is starting to question this latest scandal -- that the government has illegally spent another 34 billion. Rebalans had to appear in this assembly about September, when it was clear to all (I hope that it was clear to you in the Government, because you are experts) that the budget will not be filled in the expected way, i.e. there will be no expected budget in September. The deficit was breached in September and you had to come here then and look for a new budget rebalance, but it was obviously not your intention. It's clear that the government spent citizens' money and today, in the last week of December, almost the last working week, you put this report here calmly in front of us about how you spent the money. Because, I'm sorry, this can't be a rebalance. You've already spent the money. We can't talk about it being a rebalance, that you're asking us to spend some other money. It's been a while. You've already spent it. So today, we should name here that you spent 34 billion without any explanation and without permission. Ladies and gentlemen, as you put it, it's nice in one movie -- "you're a little mistaken." That's really outrageous. So, what do you expect from the congregation here today, what do you ask of the congregation? The assembly should conclude that you have spent 70 billion first, 34 billion more, that the government has made a huge deficit in the budget, and that the MPs of the ruling majority, since they are not dealing with this rebalancing but are talking about some other laws that are in this package and have nothing to do with the rebalancing, so since you depriving this rebalancing, in the voting day they are voting and thus apologising the government's unintentional and illegal spending of funds and thus justify the haughtiness and indignity of the government that spends what no one has allowed it. And as the government spends, I refer to those who are interested in the State Audit Institution report. It's a taboo theme in this assembly. We will discuss this in March, when no one is interested and when you are already the government we have sent. What else is interesting? Why exactly December 22nd do you want us to tell you all this and say that the rebalancing was adopted on December 22nd? Are you going to spend something new in these nine days by the end of the year? Not to talk about some explanations now, which is why you unplannedly spent 34 billion dinars in 2009, and believe that there are reasons that are scenic and funny. One of them is that in the previous two years there have been unplanned expenditures, and as an example, supplies of vaccines against Mexican flu are listed. First, it's not two but a year, at least as far as the public's concerned, and what you've been negotiating and how you've been negotiating to launder that money, and it'll be quick to find out. Whether it is the purchase of a vaccine that has been discussed for months, costing about 20m euros or the purchase of three and a half million doses, and today we read that 58 MPs have received the vaccine, that four citizens have received the vaccine in my Valjevo over the past few days and that three and a half million doses will not be spent on Serbian citizens. The key question is, did the Republic Health Insurance Institute pay for the advance full purchase or just the part that was delivered, which is approximately 200,000 doses? If paid only for delivery, then there was relatively little damage, but if you paid all 20m euros, that is, gentlemen, another story, even worse, because the job is about 20m euros paid in advance. You can't do that anywhere today. The government argues that for this purpose, the current budget reserve, which is small, is only 1.5% of the budget, has been used. It is about 10 billion dinars, or 10m euros. These are the questions and explanations you're giving us here today. This is all top-of-the-line insolence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34520	Eight minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34521	On the subject of adopting the 2009 budget rebalancing, we can conclude that tax policy is not a very convenient tool to win the popularity of citizens, nor political points, because sooner or later, those whose policy on tax procedures, tax exemptions, have to pay again, in fact, in pre-election times. The proof that this is the case is, nowhere seen, the release from real estate tax when buying the first apartment, advertised at the time of the election. It is evidence that only 0.6 billion savings were made to citizens for what was reduced tax on computer equipment. Such minor discounts, I can simply say, bribery of citizens, led to citizens now having these and these deficits, which you fill in by borrowing from commercial banks, printing paper of value and repo operations, at which interest and 14% were paid in due time and at the moment when the economy is crying out - loans in the economy, not in government securities of value. Everything that looks like a gift at first moment, the citizens, in fact, have to experience as a kidnapping. Because, regardless of the art of recording, of changing accounts, of showing these reports, you can't help but record what's called money spent, not only illegally, but also the inappropriate state of a country where we are. And, as much as you want to admit it or not, in these views, both economists and honest citizens, who are both in the position of the opposition and in the position of those who support the government. Just remember the story of the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement, that it will not be such a terrible loss. It turns out that reduced exports and reduced income at the same time, and reduced taxes on car imports, that tax has produced a serious lack of money in the budget. It was abolished by changes and additions, and one part of the Property Tax Act, which concerned heritage and gifts. And that was tiny, somewhere around 0.6 billion dinars were reportedly savings. The 2009 law then exempts citizens from taxation of interest income and capital gains in transport, which amounted to only 0.8 billion. Since 2004, we have used citizens to making no income on favourable terms, but not to tax them, for example. When charging taxes on income from agriculture and forestry, and it has been voluntary since 2004, in order to collect these and such figures, 0.6 and 0.8, here releases, there, discounts, receive a figure of a negligible 22 billion missing in the state register. If the government hadn't courted the citizens there, a little bit here, this minus, which is filled with the most expensive funds, by borrowing loans under commercial conditions, would have been less than 22 billion dinars. Did you really do something to them? And are you aware that when you take from a lot of people a little bit, you haven't damaged them much, but you've damaged the state's register a lot since there's been a loss of 104 billion dinars in one place? There are some basic tax rules. If those who were to take care of them had followed them, we wouldn't be talking about such a big minus today. I'm not going back to that result of the coalition deal, as much as it cost and was worth, because neither the pensioners nor those who were directed to get something, they didn't get much of it, but we have a situation that this rebalancing has brought us one inconsequential, but one terrible problem. Local self-government has reduced transfers by 15 billion dinars. You think now that you haven't transferred 15 billion to them, that obligation doesn't exist. But what is not seen in the Republic budget as a commitment is seen in the budgets of local self-government and cities. You know how you see it? Through unsettled, and committed to suppliers, contractors and those owed by local self-government. Now the government has reduced its failure by 15 billion, shifted the burden of failure and incompetence to local self-government, and in fact we have indivisible businesses that we create a condition that according to this new, "precise" bankruptcy law, we delete them from the list of companies in the way you wipe out employees, or unemployed when it's meant to be your success. The very important fact that I want to repeat, and I ask you to take this data seriously, is that an increase in interest expenditure in the Republic budget is the reason for the good part of the current deficit of this republican budget. For this innovation Mr. Cvetkovic was defending himself before us - we should have some securities of value, you know, shallow financial market, so we're broadcasting these vault records. When we asked him -- do you know, Mr. Minister (then he was still a minister), how much does it cost Serbia's budget? He said-- they told me it wasn't much. A man who runs finance must know the bill, not believe what they told him. Now, what someone told him means we paid interest on the short-term state records 14%. What could the government have produced, placed, from which it would cover this cost and just be at zero, not to say it was positive? Or, who in Serbia works today, has the opportunity to cover these 14% and have something left for him? Serbia's private economy pays as much as its debt on loans. Credits can't stop, forget it, wipe out the tire, but they can fire the workers. And that's your problem, or that's the problem you put on the business. Someone can pretend and think that we don't know, or that we can't add up from the Official Messenger how many of these records and funding the failures, the irresponsibility of this government, but it's known how paid up they are. 155m euros were paid for interest on securities of value. People, the Beician cement factory has been sold for a third of it in its own time. Today, we all pretend it's small figures, that we can handle it, that we'll make up for it. With what? Is there another Moby 63 to sell? Is there another possibility for a fantastic prank, as Dinkic has come up with in time, allowing Slafu to invest 34 million and to invest on 34 million in the Mobi 63 joint venture, which did not work a day, which did not even have a PIB, for 350m euros? Do you even realize that someone knows this and says – can I get 10 invested on one dollar, as you made it possible for Martin Schlaff in Mobile 63, when you allowed him to share with the state Serbia over 70:30 from the sale of the company? Do you really think you're brilliant and that now that you're abolishing the Action Fund, there is no evidence that Mr. Nik Jovanovic's anger in the passenger procedure was made public promise in the magazine "Economist", where he said – I'm angry, it should be disbanded? And you now adopt such a law in the government? I don't care if you accept Nick Giovanni's promise. As a citizen of Serbia, I am concerned that the Action Fund includes the actions "Politicals", "Contogradation", "Energoproject", and you will be behind closed doors in the Agency, under whose paw you now want to put this fully, possessing the property of Serbia as if it were an inheritance of an aunt you never saw and who you don't even owe it to her to light up the legacy she left for you. Who gives you the right to do that? We've come all this way to finance our taxes. There's nothing more to sell. Now, what, are we supposed to sell the land and public enterprises that are left over? That's what they teach us. You travel to China often. I also traveled as an MP, so I remembered that the land there is being sold for 99 years, is not being sold. (President: National MPs, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. ) Look up to a world that protects its country and works in the interest of its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34522	Thank you. MP Vlajko Senic. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34523	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable People's MPs, is already getting a little boring here in the Assembly to listen to SNS attacks on G17 plus. I would not waste time here proving what the Mobtel sales meant, what motives were and how many Serbian citizens were robbed by the company until 2000, and also after that, unfortunately. And it should not be explained how much funds have come into Serbia's budget by selling and what projects have been launched thanks to the fact that, as a government, we have gathered the courage to return the property of Serbian citizens to Serbian citizens without it being private property of a company or family. We'd be wasting our time if we thought this was about economics. This is about politics, an already months-long campaign by the political party to run for entry into the republican government without elections. I want to inform the citizens of Serbia, and they, too, that this will not happen, that we must wait for the next parliamentary elections to be held. If the citizens give you confidence, I don't speak ironically, or cynically, or underprivilegedly, you'll, like. At Vozdovac, you will be able to form a government, and by then Serbia will be led by a coalition that won, convincingly, in 2008. As you can see, here we are sitting with our coalition partners. Don't hope that something can change without a choice and don't waste any more time. It's not the G17 plus the only party that makes up the ruling coalition. Let us rest a little, both of us and you of us, and with your economic demagogoggy continue to entertain the citizens of Serbia, whom I am confident after the next 2010, will see that there is a real economic programme, that your attack is for example. in an agreement with the Fiat was a demagogue, that instead of the 500m euros that the citizens had singled out to preserve fictitious jobs, we would open... It's not us, it's not about one party or one government, there will be a perspective for the employment of Serbian citizens. It won't take 2,000 citizens to lie on the track in Kragujevac, but it'll be able to do its job, and along with them a few tens of thousands more. I am sure that citizens will support all of us together for this in the next election. If not, let them give it to you, so you lead the country as you think it is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34524	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34525	Just to let the public know, if anyone could gain a dilemma from what my colleague was saying, that Mobi 63 did not sell Mladjan Dinkic as a member of the G17 Plus party, but as a member of the government. That is the problem of the government and I have a full right, as an MP, to call for an illegal shop, which is not that it is not well used, but that it is illegal and for which, whatever the courts are, one day we will actually have a credible report. What's the problem is that the Fiat was the reason they won the election. After a year of promising 700m euros will be paid, we have an announcement of a 100m-euro payment. I would ask Mr Senic to present as much information from the Serbian budget, in which taxes, taxes, non-tax revenues are paid to all citizens, paid to the flag through demonstration of equipment, editing of space, what the town of Kragujevac is denied for the investor to come, and whether any other foreign investor had such a right, or even now Mr Dinkic can in the restructure regulations, his signatures, without the bank, without the Development Fund, which only does the commission, share close to 50 billion dinars. That, Mr. Senic, is not only a problem for me and the citizens of Serbia, but also for the government and your coalition partners and for the G17 plus. Please don't translate the facts I present into the field of politics. I speak in the context of budgets, budget gaps and the obligation of all of us to fill that budget without spending it on the chosen ones. Those chosen ones, you mark and you give them the signature and the document that they are truly special. Do you have a right to do that, the citizens will assess it, and I'm allowing them to make a good assessment and remember your results. It is the work of an opposition MP and I use facts only in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34526	Mr. Vlajko Senic, replica. I'd like to ask you to finish the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34527	I'll do my best to speak so there's no more reason for replication. I really don't want to run some personal controversy with you, because there's no reason for that. When you mentioned the project, we are not running away from responsibility and everything is happening in front of the eyes of Serbian citizens, unlike some previous projects, for which we have not been able to find out for a long time how they were made. In the year when, for example, (you could hear, follow well, you're a prominent economic expert) "Sab" fails, when Kraissler fails, when the German government doesn't know what to do with 10,000 employees in Opel, the Serbian government opens up space for a fallen socialist loser, which is 500m euros (just what you're talking about, the tax money of Serbian citizens) only to survive and fictitiously produce some cars that couldn't sell on the domestic market. The illustrations for the sake of this, the citizens will understand this easily, the production price was so high, that the state had to subsidise the difference that it could be sold on the market in any way. The contract annex will be signed tomorrow. The first 100m euros will be paid. Serbia will, as it stands in the contract, invest one euro in two euros invested by an Italian company this time in equipment. And everything is very transparent, clear and clear. And we would like the Fiat to come to Serbia and say -- here's a billion euros in greenfield investment, the state doesn't have to give us anything. But, ma'am, that wasn't possible. The state had to open some subsidies, it had to give certain privileges in order to "Fiat" even voice interest in coming to Serbia. We had a prequalification tender, you know it well – there was one German and one Chinese company and they did not express interest in investing in the flag Kragujevac. Now I don't know what's better, I'm asking you again -- that we have a company where people don't work, come to work, the state pays subsidies, produce cars that no one will buy, or open the perspective of exporting 200,000 cars a year from Serbia, which (you can calculate) amounts to two billion euros in potential exports, in a situation where the total amount of our economy is six or seven billion euros? So these are the facts. We don't wave to make citizens vote for us, we're just talking about how things are. If you think it's better what was before, it's quite okay, but we believe and I'm sure the citizens, especially Kragujevac, and those who work and open the perspective through it, we still think that what's going on right now is going to be better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34528	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the spirit of debate on budget rebalancing and following laws, I would certainly refer to one finding, which is here today, which, at the very least, does not correspond to the truth. It doesn't matter whose side it came from, of course, the MPs who spoke in favour of all these legislative projects that are on the agenda today, which is that Serbia did not, as they said from this budget rebalance, suffer any damage due to the unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I'll remind you of the 2009 budget debate, when one of the biggest stumbling stones was precisely a unilateral application of the SAA. Representatives of the authorities then acknowledged that the revenue side would be denied 300m euros. Just because it doesn't say it in this budget doesn't mean that Serbia hasn't suffered any damage. She suffered, but you have projected the 2009 budget according to the fact that millions of euros due to the unilateral application of the agreement will be missing. So it's something that doesn't match the truth, and indirect damage is measured by billions of dinars. When we talk about indirect damage, that's all that based on the liberalisation of imports went to harm domestic producers in different sectors. This is evidence of the fact that the largest VAT taxes on imports, not domestic production or export, are in the budget and 2009 budget structure and 2010 respectively. So that's the thing that I don't think is delicious to talk about in a twisted or unauthentic way. When it comes to the budget, however complicated public finances are, they are in this sense simple. Budget or budget rebalancing was done out of necessity - or something on the revenue side was wrong or something on the dispensary side was wrong. We didn't have both sides in order. And it may be good that we are discussing this item of the agenda, the 2009 rebalancing, because both MPs and the public will have the opportunity to gain an entirely authentic picture of the economic opportunities and economic policy that will be led in the coming year. Here's why I'm telling you this. In light of this budget rebalancing which today is ahead of us, among other things, the government wrote the following - in the context of the efficiency of public expenditure management, it is of particular importance to respect the budgetary objectives in preparing and implementing the budget. How much you have respected these objectives and the Budgetary System Act, say the deadlines and order we are handling when we talk about public finances both for this year and for the following year. And then you say respect for the principles of efficiency and economics. That's all we can discuss, not one day, but a month. You're still saying that public spending in 2009 is in the situation it is in as a consequence of, above all, the global economic crisis. So, public spending, wastefulness, is the result of the global economic crisis. And in a series of distasteful findings, this -- the last two years we've been facing unplanned expenditures, like getting a vaccine and stuff. Billions are missing, the deficit is in hundreds of billions, and we're talking about getting vaccines and efficiency and economics. Why did I say that? When we discussed the 2009 budget, look at the government's measures and what the finance minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, promised us. "In order to mitigate the consequences of the global economic financial crisis, the government and the National Bank of Serbia... ', among other things, 'the budget deficit reduction is planned.' This is a stenogram of her exposure in the budget adoption process, which we're working for today's second rebalancing process. "This budget reflects the readiness of the government of the Republic of Serbia to respond to the challenges. “ So you say, “I will remind you that the 2009 budget is not strictly restrictive because it implies a deficit of 1.5% of the social product. I think it is an optimal solution, a compromise that brings all the goals of the government into line." In the end, what's much more important, Article 2 of this budget, essentially, is the deficit. So the deficit can't be greater than 1.5%. The minister asks herself the question - "What if the incomes fall? “ and gives the answer, ” he says, “they will have to fall and spend, because the deficit is something that is nailed. ” That deficit, which you predicted and projected in December 2008 at 50 billion, a year later, you type into 105 billion dinars. You're still going so far as to assure us through the explanation of this law of efficiency, economics and the positive principles of public finance treatment. It's something that's really untasteful. We could understand the impact and reflection of the global economic crisis that this is the first budget rebalance, but the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing a second budget rebalance and it definitely indicates that it cannot, knows or does not want to adequately project the revenues of public finances, i.e. expenditure on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The numbers that are mentioned here are really deplaceable to talk. After all, some colleagues are likely to touch it, but what about these accompanying laws, which relate to reducing tax rates, i.e. corporate tax and citizen income? Just to see two or three sentences, as the reasons represent the measures foreseen by the amendments and additions of these two laws -- this is a continuation of the process of building an incentive and facilitating the application of the corporate tax system; and you say - it will enable a stimulating tax rate and a targeted investment development incentive to expand the economic role of this tax form to business entities. In these laws there are also things that are, truthfully, less significant. Someone mentioned it today, I think he said they were "cosmetic." And they really are, but they are insignificant compared to what is expected of the government in the year of economic problems. Today, the minister said that on the basis of precisely these changes and such changes that laws make, we might save about 100 million dinars. But on an annual level. When you put that in a parallel with hundreds of billions of deficits, see how much that is what Serbia really needs today and what the government needs to offer in response to all the economic challenges that will come in 2010. And apparently, if it's not the same, it'll be worse than in 2009. What tax revenues are you changing today? Tax revenues, which are the least involved in the total revenue of the tax revenues. One participates with 4.8%, a corporate tax, and the income tax is only 11.7%. What is the tendency of these two taxes? They had a trend of decline in 2009 and they were downgraded for 2010, and this is how we log them and represent them as I don't know what and how much it will contribute to the investment environment - it will make business easier in Serbia. We really need changes and the tax system and public finances, but the question that is being asked is whether this is what we need to talk about at this point, and the answer is - certainly not. We cannot talk today about serious economic measures and effects without talking about VAT, because this is the biggest tax revenue under the Republic of Serbia's budget. But you can't talk about VAT to start and get it over with -- well, you know, there's a part of the government that said that we're not going to change VAT and, while this government, the VAT is going to stand there. It's not a VAT story just a story about the VAT rate height, it's not popular to raise it ever, but today VAT is essentially to be talked about in the direction and direction -- how we charge it. The state should acknowledge that this budget is credited to both this and the failed economy, and the essential story is, when it comes to VAT, the day or date of VAT collection. You today have an obligation to pay VAT in a country where general liquidity is present, in a country where you can't charge for months, but you are obliged to pay VAT and finance disproportionate, unreasonable public spending. What about the gray economy? No one's talking about it. Is anyone seriously considering bringing all those who deal with the economy in gray space into legal flows? Does anyone think about the possible measures that will bring them into the legal tax frameworks? In public procurement procedures today in Serbia, if there are around 4 billion euros per year, 2 billion are in the gray zone. That's what you're talking about, because the bearers of that gray are the people who are politically bound to you. You don't have the courage, you don't have the will, and you don't have the political commitment to deal with them, because you're calculating with election results. But as time goes on, the foothold in that attitude and political definition will be less and less. The state has to stop selling records. It has to force banks to do their jobs, to push credits into the economy, not to trade these records and make real profits without any work, without having the economy, medium and small enterprises, those who are essentially carrying the little business life they have here, gnaw in the problems and indifference, without the possibility of crafts, for basic assets, for investment, for new technological processes, etc., in order to improve the export sector, that is, the structure of this country's exports, and to enable foreign exchanges to re-emerge the inflow, i.e. the return of loans that you have sown not only on our necks, but also generations after us. That's what we said a hundred times and we'll do it again. The dominant loan payment has yet to begin. In this year, you spent 13 billion dinars just on paying off the principal and another 35 billion on interest payments, and 17 billion is planned for next year. You're telling us stories about tax rates from 20% to 10%, which on the annual level, who knows if they'll save a few hundred million dinars. What about the claims on the inner scene? Mr. Buha just said how many total debts in Serbia's market are. What about the government's debts to the economy? What about charging uncontested claims? All this is needed by one country with an attractive business environment. How many months does it take you to collect in court proceedings some debt? The state is inexorable when it charges VAT, there's no joke with it. The state is inexcusable when one day you're late with a VAT application or when one day the private sector doesn't pay taxes and contribute to its workers, but they're big ones, you won't blame me on the term - the bumblebees, they can afford anything, that they don't pay taxes and contribute for years, that they owe to suppliers. The state has no mechanisms and, I repeat, the political will to deal with them. In the end, what about privatizing public enterprises? What do we do with them? How long will we wait for the strategy and how will privatisation of public enterprises take place and end? Will the privatisation of public enterprises also be a victim of your political service, so we will, for example, sell to Serbia's Elektroprivred in the following year to the Germans for three and a half billion euros, not to the Russians for six, because they have given you support for visa liberalisation? Either the Italians will get priority in hydropower concessions, for thermal power plants, or will they promise you a billion and a half loans because they gave you support for that European trip? Will we once again sacrifice economic interest for your ideology and your petty political interests and commitment? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS of this kind of economic concept, which, by its essence, represents an economic Sunflower, cannot and does not want to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34530	Mr. Milos Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34531	Thank you, Mrs. Dejanovic. We here today have a common principle search on four points: the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, accounting and audit, the Agency for Economic Registers and, among other things, there is the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Insurance. Mrs. Dejanovic, it is a disgrace, first of all, to the ruling majority, and to you, to allow such a significant point to be held in a united search. Serbian citizens deserve much more respect, as well as bills for what was spent in 2009. What is also a great shame, respected citizens of Serbia, is that the 2009 budget rebalance proposal, which we received in April, looked like this, and the budget rebalance proposal we are now getting, with a huge delay, looks like this -- not full one and a half pages. This is the relationship this government is pointing to the citizens of Serbia. It is irresponsible that in the draft budget rebalance, which we have now received, we do not have items by execution, as is irresponsible to your behaviour at all. The DSS parliamentary group delivered a letter to you this October 7th, Mrs Dejanovic, where we asked for an explanation for overcoming the deficit, allowed and planned. In the first regular session, on 15 October, we also raised a parliamentary question here for the budget deficit, which was 74.2 billion for January-September alone, and the budget deficit allowed was 70 billion and 400 million dinars. You've already exceeded the budget deficit, not bearing any responsibility for what you've done, because you're demonstrating force politics here and showing how it's done. This is a bad example, first of all, for the citizens of Serbia. You show that you are not hosts, that you are not responsible and that you do not act as you promised the citizens. It is no wonder, then, that in Krusevec, the council of the City Assembly in October gets budget rebalances for 2009, on a single list. Mrs Dragutinović (which is not here, but I am talking to her and I hope she hears what I'm saying), what about the 2009 final account? Why didn't this congregation discuss it? What about the State Auditing Institution report, which also had to be in the process of considering in this assembly? What this budget and this rebalancing point to is that of those strong promises you made, and I'm going to remind the citizens because first and foremost, I'm talking to the taxpayers, of which the budget is being filled, in December you designed the GDP growth budget of 4.5% and then you planned the revenues of 698 billion dinars. With the budget rebalance in April, you planned those revenues of 649 billion dinars, and now we see that 614 billion dinars. Even then we were talking, we DSS MPs, that this budget is unrealistic, that it's not developmental, that it's too optimistic and that it's going to give a completely different picture of money spending compared to what you've designed. And this is that the costs remain the same, except for the transfer of funds to local self-government, which have been reduced from 40 billion to 25 billion, and we know that they cry out local self-government to all municipalities in Serbia for these funds because they have huge budget gaps, that investments in the budget are only 4.3%. In doing so, you've only reduced pay allocations, you've frozen them, but that's why you've filled out the public procurement in full. You're also being wasteful when it comes to representations, when you're borrowing money to public enterprises, and the fact is that public spending is huge compared to income. The government's poor policy, which has promised the development budget, also shows that the decline in industrial production is 14%, exports are down by 24% and imports are 30%. But the concern and structure of imported goods, where 53% of the goods are extensive consumption, and only 7.8% of the equipment and resources to work. The budget deficit, Mrs Dejanovic and respected citizens, was planned for 49.9 billion in December, in April -- 70 billion and 513 million dinars, and now totals 104 billion and 867 million. It's a real picture for every citizen like you who exercise authority and how you treat people's money. How do you cover that budget deficit? Taking loans from commercial banks, under commercial conditions. Here we have ratified loans of three commercial banks, worth 90m euros. The announcement is that we also have a Russian loan worth $200 million. Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister in "The Questioner" said last night that in 2008 we had virtually no ino obligations based on credit. It is a confirmation of the good policy of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and we are now in a situation that we will have two billion and 600m euros in loan-based commitments next year. That, if you count by day, is seven million euros a day. In the end, a question for all of you – what will it come from and who will repay it? Tax bonds, people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34532	Mr. Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34533	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a little more time will be devoted to the draft law amending and supplementing the Accounting and Audit Act, because if we agree that trust in financial reports means educated accountants, standardised bases, harmonised principles, transparent and fair financial reporting data, then, unfortunately, we will have to agree in the next finding - that financial reporting in Serbia has fallen to an unenviable level of quality, with an expressed degree of uncertainty of financial reports and auditors' reports. This is certainly the result, or rather the consequence, of applying the current rules on accounting, which are still at the stage of preparation and adoption, which have been pointed out by many analysts, who have warned that legislation that regulates financial reporting contributes to the creation of a non-regulated situation in this area, with all possible consequences. Among other things, the law also regulated that small legal entities and entrepreneurs can, but do not have to apply the International Accounting Standard and the International Standard of Financial Reports, and that for those who choose not to apply them, the finance minister will prescribe a way of recognising, measuring and assessing assets and liabilities, income and expenditure, in line with legal and professional regulations. In accordance with that provision, the Minister, with the help of the National Accounting Commission, has adopted a regulation that is inapplicable in many parts, and in some parts is completely unclear. It is not known whether or not who is applying that and that rule, and in what way, because no one has made it known or who is recording and controlling it. What I also want to draw attention to is the problem of translating, publishing and harmonising the aforementioned standards. According to the Accounting and Audit Act, legal entities and bodies that obtain from international regulatory bodies the right to translate and publish, translate and publish this Regulation. For the sake of the public, I will point out that the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia has the only right with us, based on membership in the International Association and in other global professional bodies. It would be logical for the Finance Minister's solution, as the law requires, to be entered into that the Alliance is a legal person, that the law he translates, publishes and harmonises professional regulation, and would then probably know which, what and how all professional regulation is applied in Serbia. The problem is also the fact that it gave up the application of national accounting standards related to the education of accountants and accounting software, which was one of the best practices in the development of accounting in Serbia. The non-application of the code has had a considerable impact on the loss of quality and reliability of financial reports in Serbia. Although the code requires a professional accountant, educated, therefore educated for accounting affairs, the very act of giving up on these national standards is immediately and understood, thanks above all to the interpretation of individual officials of the Ministry of Finance, related to individual private, commercial and audit firms, and this is an apparent major problem in this sphere, that the financial report can draw up anyone, regardless of their professional knowledge or title. This led to Serbia's financial reports, in most cases, consisting practically of people who do not have the necessary knowledge from accounting, often using other people's financial reports or their own from some earlier years, and using very suspicious software from this sphere. The law also found that legal entities and entrepreneurs must use standard accounting software, but there is no telling which standard regulates it. When it comes to regulation of audits as regulated, without the necessary quality control, it is clear that it only contributes to reducing the reliability of financial reports. By forming the Chamber of Authorised Auditors and by adopting certain rules by its authorities, the revision has been practically converted into, to say the closed-type business, in which 30 of these companies have achieved (the 2008 data is revenue of over 40m euros, without the necessary responsibility, so the revision of financial reports does not have any particular importance to the public, in addition, I say again, a lucrative and good job for audit firms and certainly a negligible cost for clients of mandatory audit. In particular, the issue of the number of authorised auditors, their professional and age qualifications, the education programme, the acquisition of qualifications for the performance of this job, etc. It is obvious that there are not enough authorised auditors in Serbia, given the number of legal persons who have, otherwise, the obligation to audit, many of whom are even in the status of pensioners, although there are thousands of professional accountants who are in some way prevented from doing this job. Only a small number of persons have acquired certain qualifications from the moment of formation of the mentioned chamber, but most of them are still without the possibility of obtaining an adequate licence, given the prescribed working internship in the audit, which is laid down by the rules. If it is known that about 100 authorised auditors are reviewing about 5,000 financial reports, then it is clear what the quality of these reports can be, with a particular question who actually needs audit reports delivered to a certain part of the year, or by the end of the ninth month. The audit solutions, but the work of audit firms, I think, are a good example of how it shouldn't be done, which just confirms the SRS' findings that bad regulations, which are in the function of a monopoly business, absolutely nothing good can be expected. I would also like to point out that there are no significant fundamental shifts in relation to the existing law in this proposed amendments and additions to the Accounting and Audit Act, and all of this, I said, as a consequence, there is a pretty far-fetched financial reporting in Serbia, with a large number of unreliable financial reports, which should generally serve many and external users in making significant business decisions regarding the work of economic operators. We also have to realise that the extremely strong pressure of the financial power of private commercial publishers and individual audit firms which, apparently, have had a great impact on the Ministry of Finance for a long time when drawing up rules in accounting, and apparently that impact was crucial when proposing and adopting all the proposed laws and sublegislative acts relating to the said Accounting and Audit Act. Of course, if we want to be well-intentioned, it should be absolutely acceptable for everyone to, if we want quality and reliable financial reports, then indeed all businesses must build their profitability on good legal solutions and then the situation in this area will, in some way, be overcome. It is clear, if a connection with international systems is to be caught, that it is necessary to build a more significant institutional framework for building a reliable financial reporting system. Also, it is necessary that accountants, as producers of the quality of the financial report, get the status and role of accountants in developed countries, and until we have a quality law, Serbia will also be accounting for the fact that non-intentional budgets are spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34534	Thank you. The word is a folk MP, that is, a letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another one of the budget rebalances for this year 2009. Contrary to the truths that we have had in the course of this year, we hear from the leaders of our country, Prime Minister Cvetkovic and his vice-presidents, Mr Djelic and Mr Dinkic, that positive signals are coming out that the economy is moving through recovery, that the global economic crisis is a chance for Serbia, that the crisis in Serbia is ultimately, what is written in an explanation for the adoption of this bill is essentially the opposite of their statements, which they have made for only known reasons, because no one in Serbia has believed them. The data in this bill are in favour of this fact black on white. And it is explained that in the first nine months of 2009, Serbia's economy continued unfavourable trends, launched in the second part of 2008, due to the spilling of the effects of the global economic crisis on the real sector, GDP dropped by 4.1% in the first term compared to the first six months of 2008 and continued the decline in industrial production trend started in August 2008. Data on the decline in the volume of industrial production - 15%, decline in retail trade - 10.2%, decline in tourism - 4%, construction activities - 22.4%, traffic - 14.6%, postal activities - 2.5%. The situation is only different in the area of agriculture and telecommunications. All of this, as well as the fact that the crisis in Serbia has been going on for years, is caused by a decrease in revenues in the budget. When we make a comparison of the planned budget receipts relating to tax revenues, we see that the initially planned amount is 640 billion. The first rebalancing envisions a reduction to 586.2 billion, and this second rebalancing, which the government did ten days before the end of the year, had to be more realistically seen and now it is 570,914,000 dinars, which means 69,242,200.100 dinars less than originally planned. Initially, the deficit is also planned at 49.9 billion, but the year will end with a deficit of 104.8 billion, which is 54.9 billion dinars more than planned. In the structure of the tax revenues, there is a marked reduction in both the income tax and the profit of the company and the added value. Again, the issue has been raised throughout the year, which is of interest to businesses, whether there will be an increase in VAT. It is also important to point out that by comparing the item of borrowing and the sale of financial assets, the funding of the budget puts things this way: originally - 99.6 billion, the first rebalancing in April - 218.4 billion, and now, in the second rebalance - 250.6 billion. But whenever the Minister of Finance (who is not with us this time, which would be good if he were) we say that he's over-independenced, we always get the same answer – that someone else is much more in charge of us. The government had no willingness to cut costs. Many times we talked about not having to artificially create new budget users who spend a lot of money, and are parallel to existing constitutional, state-owned bodies. The government's representatives knew how unpredictable the conditions in which the government worked in 2009, as Mrs. Minister said today, but did not pay attention to that. Agency for the Agency was founded, and now the government is looking for understanding, looking for impossible. At a time when there was something to privatize, everything was much easier and it was not thought of coming these days. The process of unfair privatisation, in which many companies have been sold huge values in depravity, and workers left out of work, with severances for leaving work that really could not have started some private business, has made disreputed workers take desperate moves: cutting body parts, demonstrations in tents in parks, roadblocks. These people don't see any other way to solve their problems. Members of the authorities who have allowed such problems to be created, now they are not trying to find mechanisms for their solution. And one problem never goes alone, always pulls a lot more with it. In fact, 14 companies exporting food, metal, chemical, construction industry and three external companies are suffering huge losses, which, due to the inability to transport goods by rail, are increasing from day to day. The total daily losses of these 17 companies are over 35,000 euros, because they are forced to send their goods, instead of cheaper railways, to the Macedonian and Greek markets, far more expensive road traffic. Their total losses could soon reach 1m euros. A particular problem is that by breaking the railway link with Greece, the number of companies suffering losses is much higher by breaking up the railway link with Thessaloniki's commercial port, almost 15% of Serbian exports to the world. The Union of Employers of Serbia assumes that the number of companies that have suffered damage is far greater and collects additional information from the field to analyse total losses. In the Union, they say, because of the state's lack of confidence, our companies are declaring untrustworthy partners who do not respect delivery deadlines. I will refer to something else that this bill explains -- that the total number of employees in the period from January to September 2009 has been reduced by about 2%. This information is worth saying more about him. According to official data from the National Employment Service, 727,142 unemployed were registered at the end of October, 33,813 were newly registered in October, of which 14,015 first sought employment. Of the total number of unemployed 63.63% is long-term unemployed, waiting for work for more than a year. The highest number of unemployed, 12.75%, is 25-29 years old -- according to a National Service report. During October, there were 55,688 people left, which is 3,98% less than in the same month of 2008. The largest number of people, 54.84%, ran out of work after their work contract expired for a certain period of time. An agreement with a jobless employer left 10,945 people, based on the law or collective contract 4.453 persons, and as a technological surplus, there were 3,044 workers. At the end of October, the total number of unemployed registered at the National Employment Service was 806,068, but 77,502 persons were temporarily incompetent or unprepared for work, 1,1114 were employed in temporary or occasional jobs, for 215 persons were at rest and 95 requested a change in employment. The report says that in October of the National Service records, 2,3.310 persons were employed, while 33,506 people were employed from employment. The number of people employed from the record in October was 18%, i.e. 5.118 lower than in the same month of 2008. The Republic Statistics Institute published its data at the end of September 2009, and they show that there were 1,827,958 employees in Serbia, which is 0.4% or 7.292 workers less than at the end of August. The number of employees in September this year was 164,000 or 8.28% lower than at the end of the same month 2008 -- according to a report by the National Employment Service. Otherwise, according to cities, the unemployment rate is highest in Novi Pazar, Loznica, Leskovac, Jagodina and Kragujevac, ranging from 52.6% to 33.8%, and cities with the lowest unemployment rate, from 13.4% to 18.1%, are Belgrade, Valjevo, Pojarovac, Užice and Novi Sad. This is official data from the National Employment Service. The exact information is unknown because many have lost hope of ever getting a job, so they no longer register the unemployed, while others are off the record due to a certain day of delay, and in the next few months they can't register again. Before the end of the debate on the 2010 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was led before the current budget rebalancing debate for 2009, the finance minister, who is supposed to be with us at the moment, concluded that the popular reading of the MPs is the Report of the State Auditing Institution on the financial audit of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. For the sake of the public, I will say why this report was not discussed at the plenary session of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, members of this opposition committee insisted that the DRI report be held on the agenda and discussed before the 2010 budget debate is held. However, since the report contains a lot of information on the conduct of various irregularities in the spending of money from the state register, members of the Assembly's Finance Committee of the ruling coalition, which, by the way, make up the majority of committees, were not willing to accept this proposal, so the Committee concluded that a session with this agenda was sometimes held. The opposition MPs were then told that they would talk about it anyway during the 2010 budget adoption debate. I can't ask Mrs. Finance Minister right now why she was bothered to talk about the auditor's report at the time. Were we supposed to wait for a session about this report to happen sometime, so we could talk about it? It is amazing that from Mrs Dragutinovic, whose expertise really cannot be disputed at any moment, we hear that MPs do not believe in anything, that they only blindly believe in the report of the state auditor and everything he writes. It is truly amazing that the finance minister says that everything the state auditor writes should not be trusted, because this report is now made up for the first time. As far as we know, the state auditor isn't a journalist who writes gossip sections, so let's not believe what we read in his report. With all due respect to journalists who work fairly, they can't write anything anymore, and only the state auditor can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34536	I just have to say, for the public's sake, that I have been given a proposal to discuss the report, but not as an emergency proposal, if I were obliged to do so. Since every working day until the 90th day of the regular session was already planned, I had no business opportunity to consider the report. So I conclude that those MPs who talk a lot about how the report didn't come to the agenda, not using those business opportunities they could, didn't even have a real desire to talk about it. If they had, they would respect a procedure that was only possible to put the report on the agenda. I have to say this for the public, my colleague Lydia. The word is made by the People's Messenger Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34537	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Mrs. Kalanovic, I assume that you, as representatives of the political elite ruling Serbia, still feel that there is an argument here with one single wish - that all of us in this country of Serbia will be well. Why does he make such a fool of himself? Of course, this does not announce a burst of fire from these lines, but it is only an attempt to see what kind of fire awaits us in 2010. Perhaps we are from the ranks of the SRS supporters of that thought, the only right that has founded parliamentaryism, that the right control in parliamentary democracy is indeed taking place during public debates within parliament, because it is the only place where the opposition can control power, where the opposition to bureaucracy, which is growing, can take away the right to cloud the truth. With that in mind, I fully agree, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, with you that the procedure is a presumption of democracy, but I must admit that in this situation we expected from all of you who are owned to decide on the agenda for the debate of parliament, that an initiative should come from your side to discuss the auditor's report. Why is that? It's our political stance. Did we make a mistake? We did. Here, we tell you right away, we have the strength to admit it. We didn't make a request, it was "emergency," but whether it was a reason or an excuse not to talk about it now, it's a second question. What's there is, we don't talk about it, we don't discuss it, and we expected to see our money spend extremely transparently. That is why I am particularly pleased that Mrs Kalanovic is here, because we may have the opportunity to hear whether the auditor was biased when, according to Minister Dinkic, who was from your party, analyzed the work of individual ministries. I believe that we will also hear, because of the citizens of Serbia who are increasingly living and are increasingly separating to fill the budget, with growing uncertainty that they will be welcomed in 2010, whether it is normal in the light of the financial crisis, which to this end has shaken Serbia to the point that now over 700,000 people live on the edge of poverty, so they live from 8,360 dinars per month... Can you imagine what that life looks like in Serbia? I believe that everyone here can't make a reckoning about how one family can feed on those funds. Is it justified that, in such a socio-economic context in Serbia, the Ministry of Culture, so Mr Bradic, who is also from your party, pays one painting of "Rikalo in the Fall" 15,000 euros? These are certain facts, which give us the right to refuse to speak about the report by the auditors of the political elite in Serbia. And here, we wanted to open a debate here that would give us a chance to, say, you, Mrs. Kalanovic, deny me now and say, no, you're wrong. Or to deny me also if I were to develop a dilemma here in the following way – so that an average citizen in Serbia, anyone in Serbia, without the immunity of the executive authority, would pass through trying to achieve any job, and in doing so violates the Law on Public Procurement, the Labour Relations Act, to return the final account and could he in any way return the final account? The DRI report has just shown this -- that certain ministries, therefore the government in Serbia, which should be an example, which should show that in the light of the crisis it is responsible, have violated the laws it has passed before this parliament, and this parliament adopted them, and has not purposely spent in a final collection of citizens' funds. What does that mean? This means that this year we discussed how much the family will lose without a child's allowance or how much child's allowance in Serbia will be reduced. We also discussed whether regular pension payments are at stake, and in particular we discussed the truly devastating fact for all of us, that in Serbia, 300,000 poor children do not have the opportunity to have meat on their table once a month. These are the facts we should have talked about during this, I think, for parliament, the most significant debate, and it is a debate on public finances and budget spending. For political correctness, I welcome the fact that we have a report from the state auditor and it really reflects the strength of the political elite in Serbia, but then believe me, it is completely unclear why the auditor's report is not being discussed right here in parliament. We're not here to make a populist, unargumented criticism of the government in terms of -- do nothing, nothing is wrong. We are here to fix, in fact, the socio-economic and political framework in which we all live, because we do not have a reserve state, because we are in such a situation that we have to make a certain value consensus and finally agree here in parliament how we can get out of a crisis that threatens to fall into debt slavery. Why is that? The SRS believes that all these budgets that are behind us are budgets that are literally conditioned by the IMF and the World Bank criteria. They're not developmental, they're social. Political correctness works, you are caught by what no one could predict - the global financial crisis. It is really hard to find the right solutions in this context. However, this must not be an excuse for why reforms have been pending so far. That can't possibly be an excuse. If you've already taken office nine years ago, why does the state administration have, and that's what your party chief said, nearly 20,000 more people? So this crisis, which has hit Serbia, has only brought to the surface what was not done with intent. Of course, I do not transfer responsibility just to certain parts of the government, but as an opposition I have the full right and full responsibility to ask you – how do you think the average family in Serbia survives one month next year? What we are also particularly interested in here and we expect to hear from you, and yet it is state data, not SRS data, at the edge of poverty is 700,000 adults and 300,000 children. Part of the response refers to reports provided by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which say that, say, in October, a children's allowance was given to 384,000 children. After the debate on the Financial Support Act for families with children, we saw that the number would still be significantly reduced. We have also received an explanation from Mrs Dragutinovic that this is the result of certain analyses and that the government is trying to make the aid go to the right addresses. We would not be politically correct if we did not say – if that is indeed the case, then we welcome it. We're afraid he won't. Why? We have a report from the state auditor you don't want to talk about. Also, a supplement for material security and assistance in October was received by 59,175 families, or 152,000 people. Serbia is waiting very uncertainly in 2010 at the end of 2009, because it seems it will not have the strength to take the reforms that are necessary for us to achieve macroeconomic stability and that you, as the owner of the elite, will give that kind of guarantee to all of us, or all of Serbia's citizens, that they will be able to live successfully from their work. And why is that? Because you didn't set a good example. So what the state auditor has also found and what has completely startled us is that the Ministry of Culture has given 15,000 euros or 1.4 million dinars as a gift to the European Commission for the painting "Rikalo in the fall", what this ministry is doing, and what is startling for us in Serbia, that for Rajko Grlic's film "Let's stay between us" producers have not delivered a report that the second war of four and a half million euros has been spent on as well. So, we don't even know what was going on during the shooting or whether the film was made until the end and under what conditions? There is no accompanying documentation. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, led by Rasim Ljajic, has among other things concluded multimillion-dollar contracts for computer services outside public procurement. Give me an example of a company in Serbia that does this, is it appalled by responsibility? This way of making a contract is inevitably associated with what should definitely be addressed by the Ministry of the Interior, and we will have the opportunity to see what will be the concrete consequence of the findings of the state auditor. Also, the Ministry of Economy of Mr Dinkic (here, you will deny me, all of the opportunities), along with the regulations, signed disputed agreements on part-time co-operation worth 18.5 million dinars. We will, of course, try to determine who these fees are that spent 18.5 million dinars, and we promise that to the citizens of Serbia. We have already presented a "white book" on the non-intentional spending of budget funds here in parliament, it is called "Democracy Audit", our young colleague Ivan Ninic, and the findings of the book and our anti-corruption council will only be said. But let's move on. The health ministry, Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, has also illegally spent 90m dinars on work contracts. The finance ministry has evaporated, unknowingly, 379 million donations to the income and expenditure balance. The State Auditor’s report is some 169 pages. Unheard ofly, and for us completely franticly, are actually the reactions of the ministers and leaders of the ministries to this report. We heard from Mr. Cvetkovic, the Serbian prime minister, that all the errors in accounting and bookkeeping, and that the winning team should not be changed. I'm just asking you -- if anyone who was in charge had determined that any firm in Serbia that was trying to survive, and all the fewer, did at least something that they did, let's say these ministries, how would they pass? What's also frantic, and we're going to deal with it during the debate in particular, because by then we're going to get concrete information as we know and know it, is that these payments, especially on part-time co-workers, in Serbia, where everyone owes, have always been adventurous. So we here have concrete material evidence of the lack of respect for the law and of the full criminal non-intentional spending of the funds of the impoverished citizens of Serbia. What I've presented now, I believe you know and have seen the State Auditor's report, it's not SRS data, it's the State Auditor's data, and it's supposed to be trusted. Also, what is a particular problem, and it seems to me that before March, when the debate on the State Auditor's report is planned, is the following – how do you think we believe that this budget rebalance, the 2010 budget, that any legal project that passes through this Parliament will make any sense, when the government in Serbia gives us an example of how in Serbia alone can survive? By acting criminally. So, the argument that we should enter the state system, that we know how the state works, and that the state couldn't function in any other way but in these ways, because because of the haste, it couldn't call tenders, so in principle, 'who's closer' used certain services of certain people and thus violated a series of laws, is criminal behavior. In the state of Serbia, you have one model that tells all of us that respect for the law leads you below the lower limit of misery, and disrespect for the laws and approximation of the authorities and certain bosses who rule Serbia provide you with survival in the state of Serbia. Then I ask you, will you have enough resources to provide compensation for the members of the MUP, that daily for fear, when it comes to the change of power? Because someone's definitely gonna have to deal with this organized crime? Why am I saying all this? Because the number of unemployed, the number of poor and everything we are trying to do here, trying to reach the EU, which is unlikely to receive us in 2015, absolutely makes no sense to the citizens of Serbia. If we start only from the level of human rights in the state of Serbia, you have a situation here for Serbian citizens to become slaves. So this situation requires only one thing - or you will take the right moves and put it here on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament's debate on who is responsible for this situation, to give concrete names, to make these people specific and to move on, to agree on what is best to do, or to go completely to ruin. We know that everything you've come up with will go away, because you have most and mathematical years of trying to rule Serbia. But there's one big problem, and that's that virtual reality. You have citizens who go on some parallel track and who absolutely no longer have any confidence in power. It's a potentially very dangerous and very large social bomb. And then there's the question of the purpose of everything. What you should have been talking about, as a premise of this budget rebalancing story, is - who authorized you to be in charge in the name of future generations in a way that you only buy your own position of power and who gave you the mandate to sell out in Serbia everything that's left to sell out? Or worse, who gave you permission to provide a few families in Serbia with a monopoly to rule Serbia? Who authorized you to take away the right of all those who are trying to survive a day or month in Serbia to get rich in Miskovic, Beko, Djindjic, all those rulers who influence and how to make political decisions in the state of Serbia and which you have covered. On the day you launch a real action, in the sense that you set your example in the first place, so that those who purposelessly spent funds from the budget, and the state auditor found it and specifically gave you material proof, answer for it, on that day first, the MPs of the SRS will say – well done. On that day, we will all believe that there is a chance in the state of Serbia, because at this point we have an obligation, because we are going to the bottom, that we can find a consensus about first kicking the bastards out of the ranks, which apparently meet only the interests of certain oligarchies of power that are beyond the borders of this country, and finally introduce order into this country. What does that mean? You promised in 2000 – equal chance for everyone, equal participation for everyone, value system for everyone. On that day, this parliament will gain meaning. (President: Time. ) If this does not occur (thanks for warning, this ends), then it would be better to disband parliament and leave the state of Serbia to Miskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34538	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before I conclude, I ask, is there anyone who has not used his right in Article 93 who wants to address it? Yeah. ) Ms. Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34539	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to express my satisfaction that in 2009, I was often in parliament. It is my pleasure to say that ministers are coming to parliament to hear what parliamentarians have to say to them. Ministers sometimes defend laws that are not from the most round of their actions or are in their jurisdiction, but by nature they also face problems related to the area. And it's a good thing they're here a lot, so they meet up with everything you said in the previous year, so that in the end, when the rebalance is brought, and when the rebalancing is a framework law in which a lot of business, income and expenditures come together, they can say their own personal stamp. Let me start by saying my own personal seal. I'm 55 years old. I rarely got a chance to be called a criminal. For criminal behavior and organised crime, which I heard here was spoken at my address and Minister Dragutinovic, I expected, as far as I can tell, to be commented by one of the present. I am not afraid of the court of the public, I am not afraid of the media court and I call on all those who believe that Minister Dragutinovic and I are criminals to arrest us. But I don't think that's politically correct. I think this parliament should speak in a language of fact. I'm an engineer by walk-in and, as a rule, I speak the language of fact. Rebalancing is necessary to pay for pensions and employees' salaries by the end of this year. And what you are to those who are pummeling the 2010 budget, the State Auditing Institution, the acquisition of the image and all that you have brought here, is to manipulate those who follow this transmission. The budget rebalancing is the fruit of the current moment in which Serbia is located, with reduced revenues, with the year behind us, which is the year of the economic crisis and which, someone has said it very nicely, has ticked Serbia. Correction works, see how Croatia went through this crisis. For reasons of correctness, please tell us whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia chose enterprises to be subsidized this year. No, even though you said so today - yes. That's what banks did, that's what those who, based on business plans, decided who was going to be stimulated. No, who, they were all stimulated by the people who were looking for it. I'm telling you this as someone who took part in it last year. Is that what the Development Fund was doing? No, and I'm saying it's justified. No, he didn't choose the Development Fund to be stimulated. We don't speak the language of fact here, we speak the language of "whoever spits more and more, he's a bigger hero in this congregation." I'm not used to talking to you like that. If you're asking me about the DRI, if you're asking me about the state auditor, I'm here to arrest all those who broke the law. I can't wait to get into my ministry, see what kind of public procurement was done by the law by those who work in my ministry. But ask a question that brings back these debts to the NIP today -- whether the debts that my ministry has made or someone else that you're applauding today. Who spent 300m euros in the previous period, like the debts of this country only to the passengers? You're not talking about this today, you're talking about criminal behavior and organized crime of today's government. I expect correctness, if not support. I expect well-meaning, if not knowledge. I expect reasonable criticism. I expect everything that's the job of the MPs. But, ladies and gentlemen, I don't allow you to call me and Mrs Dragutinovic names today that we don't deserve, no matter what you're MPs or whatever I'm just an executive.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34540	I thank Mrs. Minister. The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34541	I'm really sorry if you've found yourself here personally called, for one simple reason -- the situation is a little bit reversed. We have this constitutional authority to supervise the executive authority and try to do it as best we know and know it. However, what we should termnologically establish both you and I here, and then I guess all the doubt will go away, is how to call those who in their work, and represent executive power, violate the laws that they have proposed, and they are brought by this congregation. What name and term can we use for these people who have knowingly violated the laws? The court says it's criminal behavior. I, just to be politically correct, told you at first -- here's a chance to discuss it, here's a chance for you to deny it. But you can't defend the fact that during the global financial crisis, someone paid a picture of 15,000 euros. It's indefensible. If that's justified, all right, that's your argument. The court will judge you and me. Here, I admit, maybe I'm wrong. If someone spends 19 million dinars of our money, both your money and mine, by paying for computer services without a tender and thereby breaking the laws, please tell me what it's called. Would you forgive the average citizen of Serbia? Just answer me that. If we forgive those who are owned to determine that, then we are in a completely criminalized society. Then I apologize to you. Then that's the way we should behave. Here, we're expecting an answer here. Let's know, then let's disband the M.O.P. Then don't go after cops to chase criminals, because criminals rule. Obviously, criminal behavior should be ruling behavior. So you and I are either fundamentally or termnologically different. But I hope that you will resolve my dilemma, because I will not give up until everyone for whom the State Auditor, and not me as an MP of the SRS, has found that it violates the Public Procurement Act, the Budgetary System, the Labour Act and non-intentionary spending. I started that debate just to hear the answer and eventually resolve the dilemmas, and instead I heard something I didn't say. I hope that in these days to come politically correct we will finally come to the answer... (President: Time, thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34542	Madam Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34543	I'd be very happy to talk to you somewhere else and accept the fact that you took half a step back, but it's quite clear that an ordinary citizen doesn't make public procurement. It is clear that the private company does not make public procurement. I fully accept the fact that we, who spend taxpayers' resources, have to have additional responsibility, but I do not accept your fact that you are both a police officer and a judge and that you have made a decision before you have read the State Auditor's report, which shares those violations in several categories and, by procedure, all those who have been made objections have the right to answer. To remind you of something else, this government was formed on July 7th 2008. The report was filed for the whole of 2008. Wait, there's gonna be time for you to put criminals in jail and it's gonna be time for all those who broke the law to answer, but no one gives you the right to be all that you just said in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-22-0.u34544	We're done with a circle of replicas. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, before I conclude a joint principled search, to remind you that on December 22nd 2009, it is a historic day for all citizens of Serbia, because today the president of our country is in line with Article 49. The EU Treaty, officially submitted an application for EU membership, on behalf of all Serbian citizens. Let me express my great satisfaction that we have celebrated this momentous day in the working atmosphere. In this way, we have, in fact, been committed to European values in the best way and nurtured, regardless of the differences in attitudes, to the dialogue that we have had here today, which is actually a characteristic of Parliament. Let me now conclude a joint principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Accounting and Audit, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers and a Single Review on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Insurance. We'll be working on it tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I have information that we are 93, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 88 MPs are present and there are conditions for work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Milica Radovic and Dragan Šormaz. I would like to inform you that, with regard to the examination of acts under points 14 to 22 of the agenda, I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of Prosecutor Nate Mesarovic, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Slobodan Radovanovic, the President of the State Council of Prosecutors, Djorđa Ostojic and Vladimir Vukcevic, election members of the State Council of Prosecutors, called for the session to be attended and Nela Kuburovic from the Administrative Office of the High Council of the Judiciary. We move on to the 14-22nd item of the agenda: – Selection and termination of the duties of judges and prosecutors and three members of the RRA Council (joint single search) Joint Single Search on the motion for a decision to elect judges to a three-year term in the courts of general and special jurisdiction, Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, Application for the termination of the duties of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a decision to suspend the court's office, Proposal for a decision to suspend the court's duties, Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of the Public Prosecutor, Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the first composition of the High Council of Justice from the law professors and a list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Council of the Republic of the Broadcasting Agency. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 14 to 22 and before the opening of the search, reminds you that, pursuant to Article 163(3), Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and that is: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them: MP Sreto Peric - MP group of SRS and MP Bosko Ristic - MP group of ZES. According to Article 163(2) but to Article 142(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the motion for a decision to elect judges to the three-year term of office in the courts of general and special jurisdiction, with a correction of 21 December 2009, a motion for a decision on the selection of the deputy public prosecutor, a request for the termination of the office of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, a motion for a decision on the termination of the judicial office, a motion for a decision on the termination of the judicial office, a motion for a decision on the discharge of the public prosecutor, a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor, a proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the First Chamber of the High Council of Judges of Law and a list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Council of the Republican Broadcasting Agency. Do the representatives of Ms. Nata Mesarovic, President of the Supreme Cassation Court and President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic, President of the State Council of Prosecutors, Mr. Djorđe Ostojić and Vladimir Vukcevic, as elected members of the State Council of Prosecutors and MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Nata Mesarovic has a word. Here you go.
