ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19736	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present, and we have a Rules of Procedure established a condition for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mladen Grujic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milos Radulovic and Donka Banovic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for the sittings to attend: Ivica Dacic, First Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure; Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry; General Stojan Jovanovic, Head of the Department of Transport Police at the Ministry of Interior; and Dragan Jovanovic and Damir Hadzic, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure. I ask the National Assembly to inform Minister Milutin Mrkonjic that he can enter the O.R. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE LAW ON THE SAFETY OF THE TRAINS ON THE ROADS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Gordana Rajkov, Miljan Radevović, together the MPs Milos Radulović and Jovan Palalić, joint MPs Velimir Ilic and Milutin Jelić, joint MPs Zoran Šami and Miloš Radulović, followed by Zoran Ostojić, Zoran Šaljavić, Milos Radović, Milos Radović, Milan Avramović, Zoran Antić, joint MPs Milan Dimitrijić, Milica Radović and Miroslav Petović, followed by Momo Čalaković, Dragan Acimović, Radovan Radovanovic, Jovan Palalić, Miloš Aligrudić, Miloš Aligrudić and Zoran Šamić, Miložan Šamić together with the people, Šamić, Maližarić, Šamić, Maližilnić, Maližović, Maližović and Mr. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Committee on Transport and Links and Corrections to Articles 283, 325, 326, 327, and 348. You received a notice from Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic to withdraw the amendments he submitted to article 184 and MP Milos Radulovic to withdraw an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after Article 4. You have received reports from the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Also, you received a correction of the report from the Transport and Connection Committee, and from a session of 20 May 2009. On the basis of Article 148(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected, as incomplete, amendments to the following national MPs: Zlata Đerić, who proposed that a new member of 8a, Zoran Babić, be added to Article 15, Zlata Đerić to Article 35, Zoran Krasic to Article 210, Momira Markovic to Article 211, Mite Rogovic to Article 212, Radovan Radovanovic to Article 233 and Milovan Radovanovic to Article 233. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The National MP Gordan Rajkov submitted to the 1st Amendment. The Government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Milos Radulovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Transport and Communications Committee, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Zoran Ostojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please sign in to the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19737	Dear Vice-Presidents, since there are many amendments to this law, and you have said that we have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Transport and Connections, I have not received, and I see that neither have colleagues, the report from the Committee on Transport and Connections, and it is important because a lot of amendments have been accepted on that committee that have not become an integral part of the law. I only have one report, I don't have the other one, and it would mean something to me to discuss. Did the rest of you get it? (Milos Aligrudic: Someone did, someone didn't.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19738	According to the information the General Secretary of the Assembly has, we only have a report from the Legislative Committee. The report of the Transport and Connection Committee is being copied and will be shared. If you think it's a distraction, I'll set a break. The Transport and Communications Committee has had several sessions, concesive, three or four, and is currently in the work of congregation services copying the latest report, with corrections. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19739	Actually, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a suggestion, so if you're going to be tolerated, you'll hear it. It has to do with the application of the Rules of Procedure. I would suggest that in the event of a lack of this paper with us, and for the rationalization of time... (The President warns the messengers with a bell. Are you distracting me, or are you calming the messengers? Try to draw attention to what it is and how the amendment has passed on to the Traffic and Connections Committee until the material arrives. I think that would be a rational solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19740	Thank you. I read again: the MPs Velimir Ilic and Milutin Jelic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) New Article 3a. National MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Radulovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of the 3a be added after Article 3a. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19741	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to add a new Article 3a, which reads: 'A participant in traffic has the right to expect that all traffic participants and road users will respect the rules on traffic safety and regulations relating to roads and vehicles... '"After this, there's another attitude. It's about introducing the principle of mutual trust. Traffic has multiple factors. On the one hand, you have drivers, drivers and those he meets on the road, and you have, of course, those who take care of traffic safety, i.e. Police. You have, then, those who take care of what the road looks like, how the intersection is arranged, etc., so many factors. I think it's necessary to introduce this principle. I'll explain it to you right away, on a few examples, why. As you well know, when you come across the intersection, you have a green light. You, of course, are going through that green light. (The President warns the messengers with a bell. I thank you. I really can't outsmart myself with most colleagues, who obviously don't care much about this. So you're going through the green light. If there is no such principle, if there is no confidence that one who has a red light will stand at the intersection, then, in accordance with the other provisions of the law, you are obliged to reduce speed, to look left, to look right, in other words, to significantly reduce traffic flow. Is that what we should do? Of course, the reduction in traffic flows as a consequence has been caused by traffic, which is again a potential danger to traffic safety. Please don't time me. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I really have no intention of getting used to it. I can scream a lot, but there's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to stop talking and listen to your fellow MP explaining his amendment in silence, with all due respect and respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. If you have urgent conversations, please leave the O.R., carrying your MP card, and talking there, not in the O.R. Indeed, jam is too loud to be heard, listened, and shown respect for the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to stop immediately and give a warning to the MPs who are currently speaking and do not listen to their fellow MP. The next one will be a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19743	Second case. You drive only by motor vehicles, by motorcycle, as it's called in this law. Do you have to believe that this trip will be perfectly fine or do you have to think about going into a hole half a foot deep, losing control of the vehicle and landing from the road? Someone could get hurt in that. Should you trust the one who provides the way? That's the meaning of this provision. Let me add that Mr Ostojić's amendment follows this, which is practically the same. It may differ in a few words, but basically it means the same thing. I don't understand why the bill promoter didn't accept this amendment. Really, I don't really understand. By the way, I'm asking you to, since I'm going to be checking in more than two minutes today, if I exceed the time of two minutes, you'll transfer me to the time of the authorised representative of the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19744	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19745	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would fully support this amendment. I don't know why the amendment wasn't accepted either. Because, simply, if you don't have a principle of trust in traffic, then there's another principle, which is the principle of mistrust. I think it's a necessary principle of trust for all those involved in traffic. This means that if you drive with the right August tape, as prescribed by law, you should trust other participants in traffic that they will not drive with the left August tape. Or, if you're driving a one-way street, you should, on the principle of trust, believe that another traffic participant will not drive in the opposite direction, which, of course, happens in practice. This means that even when crossing roads, a traffic participant who has a passing championship must have confidence, believe, to be convinced that a participant in a traffic that does not have a passing championship will give him the championship. If this principle does not come to life and this amendment is not accepted, we will have traffic chaos and will not obey the rules, as they are now not respected, and I think this is the key point of this law. That's why I support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19746	The word is made by MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19747	And this is an intervention, which refers to the work technique at the moment. I'd like to ask you, on the monitors upstairs, and that's the only thing we can see from here, there's no "counter" in time. It's a very important reference for us, especially with the amendment, when time is limited to two minutes. If there's anything you can do about it. We can tolerate for a while until it's fixed, but if it's for hours... Oh, great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19748	Corrected. I hope there won't be any technical difficulties. There's a minute watch on the panel that's run by the electronic system, and that's where I'm looking, fellow vice presidents can control. I've noticed, there's been some difficulty showing the clock on the monitors you see in the O.R., you're absolutely right. I just asked the secretary to check and bring in information when, if it's a mistake, the clock will be on. National MP Zoran Shami has used his two minutes to explain the amendments. So he is at his disposal for 15 minutes as an authorised president, as well as every president of the parliamentary group in the debate in particular, and the total time of the DSS parliamentary group, which is 25 minutes and 18 seconds. National MP Mirko Chikiriz used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the ZES parliamentary group. I hope when you turn on the microphone during the next speaker's speech, a watch will appear that can also be monitored in the O.R. The word was sought by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I will use time as an authorised representative of the SRS on this agenda. We believe this amendment, which Mr. Shami has submitted, is rational and meaningful. In that context, I would like to ask you whether and when, as MPs of the amendment, we will get a caller today on this agenda point. At the beginning, I thought you said you invited Minister Mrkonjic to come. It would be good at least correctly if he were really there, so that we could talk to him in a meaningful and rational way. We can respect your intentions to force colleagues from the ruling majority to listen to fellow Members, but we cannot get an answer to the question why this amendment is not accepted. I don't think anyone here is entitled to give us such an answer, so the debate in the absence of a minister on this very important subject and very important law is really pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19750	People's MP, I have been informed that the minister is ready to enter the O.R. and therefore I said that since the debate is open in detail, he can enter the O.R. I'll check with the secretary general again if the information is true. If not, if the minister isn't here, I'll take a break. You don't have any dilemma with me. The minister who is on behalf of the Ministry and the Government to explain why an amendment has been accepted or not must be present in the O.R. It's just the secretary's arrival and full information. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the next amendment. National MP Zoran Ostojic has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 3a and 3b be added after Article 3. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19751	If the government had accepted Mr. Shami's amendment, I wouldn't have answered. It's almost identical to our amendment. It just means that we've been really trying to fix this law, all of us MPs here. Because if any law can't be party, it's a traffic safety law. This one is now from Tito's time and it's obvious that this law is very rarely changed, and every second has its effects on thousands and hundreds of thousands of citizens. I was drawn to the government's reasoning that rejected the principle of mutual trust. There is one sentence, I am not a lawyer, but I have consulted lawyers who wonder about this sentence: “If this amendment were accepted, it would mean that traffic participants would have reason to behave with a lower degree of caution, believing that all other participants would behave according to traffic rules. ” Starting from the assumption that someone is going to break the law, the right is simply not going, it's not professional. How can he do that? So, the one who wrote it starts from the assumption that if I adopt the principle of mutual trust, now in the car I will deliberately go through the red light, because those who drive in the green light will be careful. I really think the argument is wrong. I think it's about, and I'm talking about this for the citizens, about protecting or avoiding the responsibility of the butter. This member of the law, i.e. avoiding mutual trust, best shows the intention to blame everything on the driver, not, say, butter. Because this member of the law says that when you get out on the street, you have to predict that the butter didn't mark the hole. And you'll always be guilty, because there's that other member who says you haven't adjusted your driving conditions to times, characteristics, etc. So, you drive according to the speed limit, you break the car, and it's your fault again because you had to go from assuming it was natural for the hole to be on the road and it's natural to be unmarked, and that, even though it says 60, you have to drive 30 kilometers an hour. This is to protect the irresponsibility of those other traffic subjects. Because, I remind you, it's not just a traffic driver, it's the police, butter, etc. That's why I'm sorry he's not the minister here, maybe he could cut it off.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19752	Anyone else want a word? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19753	I fully agree with the explanation given by Mr Ostojić. We are representatives of the list for Europe's Serbia, we advocate European values, European values include responsibility, responsibility for everyone for their work, we cannot be responsible for not maintaining the roads or responsibility for breaking the rules of others to the burden of those who are not responsible for it. Each of us who travelled to EU countries saw that, if they appear, the traffic stops immediately. In EU countries, there is an unknown term that exists in our terminology, even accepted by the experts of the traffic profession, which is the track. What's a track? The track is those dents on the highways that occur after a year or two days from making the highway due to unprofessional and unquality work. And now we want what someone unskilled did and took big money to transfer to the driver's cargo. And in the discussion, in principle, I said that not accepting a clause of trust means avoiding responsibility by the responsible and putting a noose around all drivers for all procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister is unable to attend the session right now. That's why I'm setting a 30-minute break, or something less. At 11.00 p.m., we will continue the work if Minister Milutin Mrkonjic, as called and as the Assembly has been informed that he will attend, is in the hall at 11.00 p.m. If that's not the case, then at that moment I'll let you know which session today will take place. Thank you. [[After break – 11.05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work, with notice that Minister Milutin Mrkonjic is present in the Assembly. Please enter the O.R. so we can continue our work. People's MPs are getting, "No MPs now." There was a clear announcement that the session would continue or be at 11.00 with the minister present, or a notification will be given when it will continue. So I ask the MPs that if they are in their offices, they will enter the O.R. because we are continuing to work, as I have a notice that Minister Milutin Mrkonjic is present. I do not want to doubt that we will continue to work without the MPs who have submitted amendments, or that I will prevent them in their right to explain their amendments. I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups who are watching an internal assembly transfer to inform MPs that the session is ready for work, that Minister Milutin Mrkonjic is present and that they invite MPs from their parliamentary groups to come to the hall, so that we do not have to take a new break. Correction works, so we don't take a break, without a basis in the Rules of Procedure, because there are no MPs. We continue the discussion in detail. Just before the break, we stopped to discuss the amendment, adding new members 3a and 3b. National MP Zoran Ostojic has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 3a and 3b be added after Article 3. The government and the Transport Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MPs -- Zoran Ostojic, as the applicant, who used two minutes, according to the Rules of Procedure, for the explanation and the MP Mirko Cikiriz, who used one minute and 30 seconds from the time of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I move on to Article 4, in accordance with Article 27, which obliges the chairman to take care of the harmonised work of working bodies and of the true information, i.e. the credible decisions taken by the working bodies of the Assembly, I would like to inform you that, whether the failure, error or self-initiative, the Secretary of the Transport and Communications Committee has put amendments which have not been accepted in the report as accepted and have not been subject to consideration on the Committee. There is currently a session of the Transport and Connection Committee, from which we will receive a final report. Since the report has been signed and sent to the MPs, it is a major violation of the decision-making process on working bodies, and for that part the Secretary-General of the National Assembly is responsible. I have an obligation to inform you that it is an amendment to Article 4, which is also in the report to the MPs after the meeting of the Transport and Connections Committee, where decisions were made yesterday afternoon, for now unconfirmed reasons, but today it is quite clear that the MPs have been informed that decisions have been made on the adoption of amendments that have not been made during the session of the Committee. These are the notifications I have from the working bodies, and I would like to inform you that at the session of the Committee on Transport and Relations in the debate on this topic, we are hoping that it will be successful, the Committee on Transport and Links to solve the problem that has arisen. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. It is now the turn of Article 4 and it is my duty to notify that there is a problem with this amendment. Since when the chairman reads during the session that an amendment has been decided, it is the decision of the National Assembly and the course of the session... I therefore inform you that this amendment will not be read at the moment and I am setting a 15-minute break in order for the Transport and Connections Committee to complete the work, found that false information has occurred in a report distributed to the MPs and that MPs may have reports on amendments of the same process of decision-making on amendments. Thank you. We'll continue the session at 11:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19757	Thank you. First of all, I would like to ask Mr. Minister, who arrived in the meantime, and I welcome him to reconsider the amendment to Article 3. to consider introducing a principle of mutual trust in traffic. I don't want to talk about it again, but that's what Mr. Ostojić and I talked about, we practically had the same amendment. This amendment, which provides for the introduction of Article 4a, is also one of the amendments for which I cannot understand why it is not accepted. To make things worse, I'll read you an explanation later why it wasn't accepted. I have to tell you that argument isn't even for Ripley. That's an explanation, don't be offended, for entering the category of some almanac of world nonsense. So here is what this new Article 4a, which we have proposed: "Priorities in planning, designing and organising traffic defines the safety of: 1) children, persons with special needs, old faces and pedestrians; 2) cyclists; 3) public transportation of passengers... "You will say that this may be a theoretical statement on these issues. But now I'm going to give you another example that will show that it's actually a very important member. If there is no member, imagine the next traffic situation. You drive along a one-way street, you have one passing lane, on the right side you have a car parked, on the left side of the sidewalk is a large number of pedestrians and suddenly running your child on the road. You drive by regulations, so speed and everything else, there's no problem, but you can't get to the brakes, you can just try to roll the wheel. How's the steering wheel? Do you want to fly in amongst the pedestrians on the left sidewalk, or are you going to step on a child or are you going to hit a parked car? I guess it's normal to expect you to hit a parked car. However, in later members of the law, it is clear that you must not step footsteps, especially children, but you must not even hit cars. In case you don't have this priority principle, the driver is guilty of hitting a parked car (because, of course, you're not allowed to hit parked cars). But in case you had an embedded priority, then you acted according to that priority -- you didn't want to step on a kid, so you figured it'd be better if you broke someone's car. So, this is not some theoretical contusion at all, but it's a very serious thing and I don't see why it wouldn't be accepted. And now I'm going to read you a reason why it's not accepted. He says reason, wisely, like this: "The government does not accept this amendment for the reason it is Article 11. The bill provides for the National Transport Safety Strategy to be adopted by the Government. The national strategy contains... If the proposed amendment is accepted and the priorities in the traffic security system are thus defined by law for an indefinite period of time (as long as this law is in force), the situation... "Now he continues to say that, behold, a national strategy that would predict that children should be trampled could not be adopted. I would understand that I have proposed an amendment that it is a priority not to, say, play baseball on the street or something, but that children should not be trampled and children and old people should especially be taken care of, I don't see which government would bring a national strategy contrary to that. Therefore, I ask you to accept this amendment, as well as the one on Article 3, on the principle of mutual trust, because I see no reason why you would not accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19758	National MP Zoran Shami used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of his authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. It's a misunderstanding, because I saw you in the electronic system. Do you want a word? I'm just asking you to register.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19759	It's been a while since I wanted to remind you that you need to interrupt the session. Now I didn't ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19760	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Velimir Ilic and Milutin Jelic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there anyone who wants to see you? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 6, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there anyone who wants to see you? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19761	My colleague Milan Avramović has submitted an amendment to Article 6. Otherwise, this article defines those who have the responsibility to implement traffic education and education measures in order to acquire knowledge, skills and habits necessary for safe participation in traffic, improve and strengthen positive attitudes and behaviours that are significant for safe participation in traffic. In 12 points, the legislator predicted that all categories were covered. His intention was to introduce a new point, which reads "11a) Legal persons who train candidates for drivers for essential traffic education and education, and then train candidates for drivers". We believe that this amendment, as well as many amendments from both the SRS and the opposition, has been rejected by the difolt. It could even be accepted, because it would do no harm to the law, but unfortunately, this amendment has been rejected, as well as some other amendments, it seems to me, for reasons we have resented the representatives of the ministry and the criticisms, in the principle debate. We have calculated that the story of a negative or bad atmosphere in which the first draft traffic safety law was created will end with a principled debate, but also what is happening today, when the debate in particular began, says that this, unfortunately, poor and superficial, atmosphere has also passed on to the adoption of this new bill. And it didn't start this morning. I regret to say it started yesterday, but we managed to narrow down one of these bad practices and intents. Yesterday, the ruling majority tried to discuss this law in an empty room atmosphere, in which only the opposition was present, with pressures to bring an end to this law without the eyes of the public, or in this so-called delayed transfer. I think it was a good thing we didn't do it. I think the opposition yesterday, if anything else, at least showed in principle its fundamental commitment to bring something new to practice in Serbia. Today, through the debate in particular, we will point to a series of concrete examples, through the measure of this law, as much as this law, no matter how much praise it is, in many of its members superficial and unspeakable. Mr. Minister, I must resent you, not personally, but to you as a representative of the government, which we have been informed that some amendments have been accepted and not accepted. I think it's also an indication that we're right about everything we're burdening you with in the context of indolence and superficiality when it comes to this law. Unfortunately, this entire session runs in such an atmosphere, perhaps as a representative of the government in this agenda or other minister cannot be put on the line in this particular case, but we are really witnessing that ministers are fully uninterested in the work of the 62-law assembly. You could see that in a session on a series of examples. An obvious example is, for example, the item of the agenda represented by SRS MP Boris Aleksic, who spoke to details about some of the things the public in Serbia needed, but you too had to hear. The minister was gone. You have shown good will, but with the SRS reserve, it also creates the fact that this law by the ministers is also explained by reading the arguments. The arguments that we all have received as MPs in the draft text of the law, which is spellingly and grammatically incorrect, and not to mention the fundamental failures of the proposed text of the law. It is truly devastating if the image of the security of traffic in Serbia should only be obtained based on statistics. We are about statistics, as it is devastating, which is the expression of reality in Serbia, we could also listen to from my colleague Radisa Ilic. And that law is on the agenda of this assembly. The defeating statistics, when it comes to traffic security, really need to be respected, but we can't explain the laws or arguments of amendments that we refuse to recognise only on mere statistics or difolt. It's really impossible to talk about traffic safety without recognising in the Ministers' discussion what it is, how it is and what this law will bring. What has led to the security of traffic in Serbia at the level at which it is, and what will the measures that you foresee through the amendments essentially bring? We didn't hear that. It is impossible to talk about the security of traffic in Serbia without hearing from the government's representatives, let's say they explain two black spots in Serbia -- the Ibar highway and the Zrenjan road. When it comes to statistics, in two months there was 91 car accidents, 15 fatalities, 40 weights, 128 injuries. On the Zrenjaninski road 65 for the same time period - except for the mortal, 28 weight, 79 easily injured. If we don't hear from the government's representatives what led to the measures that you're predicting through this law will essentially act on these phenomena, the causes of all this, we're as if we weren't involved in all this, and I'm afraid that the effects you're predicting in this law will not be obtained or you won't be able to achieve it. We believe, and by doing so, I will conclude this first exhibit, that the executive government, the government, has made a very superficial approach to the adoption of this law. Perhaps even the best thing to do was to withdraw this law and re-analyze all amendments, you might realize by some next session that you should accept an even greater number of amendments proposed by the SRS, but also by other opposition parties, and thus show that you are ready and defined to solve the area of traffic security in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19762	The remaining time available to the MP as an authorised representative is five minutes, which you can use. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that one practice that has been happening in Serbia for several years is also needed by this law to happen. It's about an agency that needs to be formed. The government's argument on my amendment that I asked the Agency to delete itself from the Transport Safety Act in the first place says that the countries that introduced the agency have extremely good practice and great security in traffic. Then let's look at what countries are - Sweden, Denmark, Great Britain. I can say that when it comes to traffic safety, it's not the Agency's responsibility, it's their training and how they're taught to abide by the law. What follows in the follow-up to this argument says that the Agency will not be burdened by the budget, it is only the first step, and then these funds will be received from the budget, and I ask the question - where will it be financed from? Will every citizen, when he comes to register his own motor vehicle, be paying funds to the Agency? Will every citizen who gets his driver's license when he pulls out his driver's license will pay the Agency again? Let's look at the next example. The Agency for Business Registers shall not be financed from the budget, and should not, because all government bodies have made such regulations that, for anything, for any legal entity, any need or action, you need assurance from the Agency for Economic Registers which is less than three months old, although all that information obtained from these certificates already exists on the state site, so that they can be considered official. So it's not about increasing traffic safety, it's about this law to the joy of those who wrote it, of those who would be directors of the Agency, of those who would be on the board of directors, of the supervisory board, of those who would organize lectures, because they would make a fine amount of money from it. And who's gonna pay for that? Serbia's citizens will pay. I am sorry that there is no Interior Minister Ivica Dacic here right now, to ask him a question – is it true that our Directorate of the Traffic Police is preparing a decision that all the vehicles that are the subject of the lising must be registered in the seat of the lising? I can say that, if it's already in the works, it's an extremely rude decision. It is about vehicles registered in the headquarters of their municipalities, paying their communal taxes, paying their environmental taxes and other tax revenues that are republican, but considered a trusted income from local self-government. By introducing this, all the money to register the vehicles that are the subject of the lising will be directed into the budget of the city of Belgrade. He who envies on the idea must ask himself whether the rest of Serbia should not live, whether the rest of Serbia should not develop, whether better roads should not be in the rest of Serbia, whether local self-government should not take care of its streets, sidewalks and the like. Or are we gonna push everything for Belgrade, Gilasu? What's the problem? Will one street, instead of two or three times a year, pave the way for only once? Gentlemen of the traffic police, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do not play with such decisions with Serbian citizens, because it will have to come to Belgrade more times to register its vehicle. It's not a problem for me from the fireman, but the problem with the one from Vranj, from Leskovec, from Nis and beyond. Give up ideas for what kind of city Belgrade and the mayor would have a billion more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19764	People's MP, the time you used to count at the time of the Prosperity Group, Serbia? Yeah. I thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 7. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 7. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the rules of legal normation. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19765	I don't understand the Legislative Committee, but well, they're just lawyers. It's about the next one. The law defines the term 'population' which, of course, is later used in members dealing with speed limitation. I defined "populated place" instead. I don't know what bothered the Legislative Committee, I don't understand. So, I defined the "populated place" and later, some interventions in the speed limit members, I transferred it to the term "populated place". I'll tell you what the difference is right now. If you use this definition of "population" and the speed limit for the settlement, then you will have an entire settlement at Ibarska masteral from Belgrade to Lazarets. Except maybe a few hundred yards from Belgrade to Lazarets is all inhabited. But these aren't inhabited places, inhabited places are something else, and I've made that clear in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19766	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19767	I'm wasting my time with the MPs for this. If the Legislative Committee has said that this is not in line with the nomotechnics, as proposed, they are probably wrong. They thought it was out of line with the nomotechnics what was given in the bill at paragraph 28, and what we're actually changing. Because point 28 states: "The settlement was built a functionally united space intended for the life and work of the inhabitants." Now look at it this way, imagine a driver driving through a built-up functionally united space designed for the lives and work of the inhabitants, and while driving along the road, he immediately recognizes that it is a functionally united space. Are you people normal? How is it possible that someone driving a car sums up that it's functionally united space? It just can't be. It's not consistent with the nomotechnics. It is not in line to predict a norm that is impossible to apply. And it's quite in line with the nomotechnics to say: "the inhabited place is a functionally united space, whose borders are determined by a spatial, or urban plan of the municipality, or the city and which is marked by a prescribed traffic sign on a public road." How do I know if it doesn't say "Svilin" on the road, it's a Svilinite? How do I know this place started? You want me to feel, like a driver, call me back? That by looking at the environment, I realize it's a functionally united space? Guys, be correct. This isn't about politics or our need to concern each other. This isn't a subject like any other. It has been shown that the members of the ZES share the same opinion with us by many amendments, simply because this is about the profession. If any law needs to cross the borders of any political competition, it's this law. I ask the most beautiful of you to accept this amendment. It's consistent with common sense, it's consistent with a healthy cut and it's completely consistent with the nomotechnics. After all, such a definition existed in the previous law and was extremely correct. Everything that was written in some previous law does not mean that it has to change just because we're passing a new law. It's about people who used to write that law, who certainly knew what a nomoch was back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19768	The time available for the DSS parliamentary group is 22 minutes and 45 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19769	Here we go again, if Mr. Shami's amendment had been accepted, I wouldn't have answered, Mr. Gristle. Because of the citizens, we need to make a difference why we are against this formulation of the settlement. Because later, in Article 159 to draw the right of the police to punish within a populated town with the claim that the settlement, as defined by the law, is a constraint of 60. But within the settlement there are parts where there is no limit of 60. Let's look at New Belgrade, there's no sign next to the SIV. Through the Hive, you can drive 80 by the current law. But police often fail to train drivers there by claiming that there is a 60 limit within Belgrade. And it's not true. Because you can't expect pedestrians, there's a road wide enough, safe enough, no pedestrians around, no buildings to run around. That's why we think this law has a general problem, which can't be removed by amendments either. There will come a time when we will actually pass European laws, which means that police cannot write the law, open and close auto-schools, determine who can and under what conditions they carry out a technical examination, give permits, determine who mastered training, etc. but he will only have an obligation to enforce the law. Since that is not the case, since the police have too much authority, we are trying to specify these powers, to leave less opportunities for free interpretation. And free interpretation objectively goes to harm before the citizens, rather than the police, leads to arguments, unnecessary costs, etc. That's why we think this amendment should be accepted, because it will limit the discretionary right of the police to within the settlement, where speed is allowed higher than the one prescribed in the settlement. Because it's natural that when there's four lanes, two in one direction, where there's no buildings around, there's a limit of 80, that doesn't punish ignorant drivers who will think that inside the settlement, such as Belgrade, there's an absolute limit of 60, or 50 as suggested, but that there are parts of a settlement where you can drive 80. That was the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19770	National MP Zoran Ostojic, as an authorised representative, has 14 minutes to go. Does anyone else want a word in the debate under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19771	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you, if you have a text of the law somewhere, an amendment that we have submitted, and a text of an explanation, to understand what I'm talking about. With this amendment, we wanted two points in this Article 7, and a total of 97, to be fixed and to be linguistically arranged to make this law look like something. Point 41 - We predicted that it would be closer to defining what a trolleybus is, that it was a vehicle powered by electricity to start the engine. The explanation the government provided us with is completely insurmountable. In your explanation, you state the fact that it's a vehicle that's different because that engine, the aggregate, is powered by electricity. The text of the law says, "Troybus is a bus powered by electricity via a conductor." How's it powering up? Light, radio or what? It is a specific vehicle whose engine is powered and powered by electricity and must be combined with the trolls for the power source. As for point 92, you've given no explanation at all, and that point is very important. I'll read it to you so you can figure it out. You say, ''a traffic sign is a sign to be used using graphic or light or numerical or letter tags... ''What does this mean, 'or'? Does that mean you're turning something off? If it's bright, in other places you can't use light than some other? When something comes up, it's normal to put a decimal point. This is exactly how you're totally freaking out. People, when you write a text, you have to mind what you write, because it leads people completely astray. The uncertainty is much, and the intention of this amendment was just to fix this text of the law, to clarify it, to be clear and understandable, nothing else. And you're giving unsatisfactory answers or you're not even responding to the part of that amendment that we've submitted. It's totally unacceptable and incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19772	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs: Radovan Radovanovic, Momo Colaković and Dragan Acimovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's Parliament of Gordan Rajkov submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19773	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as in the context of the principle debate, pointed out, according to the Government's representatives, the essence of the reform was, when it comes to traffic security, to be contained in Chapter III. This defines new authorities, which should contribute to traffic security. On this occasion, I will repeat the finding made during the principle of discussion, that regardless of the fact that new bodies, such as the Co-ordination Body, Security Agency and others, are defined under this law and this Chapter III, are defined by new bodies, such as the Agency for Security and Others, the impression that exists in the public of Serbia, among citizens who are following the debate on this very important law, is to dominate repressive measures to ensure traffic safety. Believe that a large number of citizens, primarily drivers, react with fear and concern, looking at how solutions in this law are conceived. The essential thing that hasn't changed since the solutions are still in force is that the greatest responsibility is actually on the citizen, on the driver. In all possible ways, the State avoids and withdraws as an active participant in traffic security when it comes to responsibility and leaves the driver at the mercy of the authorities which determine that responsibility and is in fact the driver responsible in any traffic situation. The spirit of this law that has been proposed to us is deeply repressive, deeply negative to drivers. What the legislator is trying to do is to give the impression that, right through the formation of new organs, some balance is being created between more severe penalties and new bodies that need to be dealt with, according to the DSS, by security management. When they look at the competences of these bodies, individually and all together in a relationship, they through strategies, through plans, through education should deal with governance. That's the essence of our amendment. For the sake of precision, in defining the jurisdiction and roles of these bodies, we have asked in this amendment to change the title and to say that these bodies are in fact dealing with security management. Because that's the point. It's not just a matter of setting up the system. Traffic security should be managed - through various measures, various activities, various plans. But the general impression, once again I will repeat in the end, is that, regardless of the intensity and the intention to involve as many participants as possible (we have asked through some amendments to extend this circle, including the National Assembly), no effect has been achieved in the public and repressive measures dominate as a basic form of prevention in order to ensure traffic safety. Finally, I call on the government's representatives to accept the DSS amendments relating precisely to the area that puts drivers, citizens of Serbia, not state bodies, not the body for co-ordination, not agencies, not road managers, but citizens of Serbia, as the most responsible for traffic security. If you accept our amendments, it will be established through the necessary balance and, in the end, what needs to be the objective of the law will be achieved - essential reform. This way, we stay on that same continuity of thinking that existed in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19774	The remaining time at the disposal of the parliamentary group is 19 minutes. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic and Zoran Shami. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19775	By way of provision of Article 8 The bill lays down obligations for the government, the executive bodies of local self-government and autonomy to organise and establish a co-ordination body for road safety tasks. It's, on the one hand, okay. On the other hand, it can be criticized, we heard the argument. However, while that is the case, we do not see any reason why one previous position, which would be attitude 1, would be said to be responsible for the state of traffic security on the roads of the Republic of Serbia. It seems that, as the biller saw that we wrote this sentiment, he acted as if something bit him, as if something terrible had hurt him, and he turned down this amendment of ours with the following explanation, which is phenomenal. First, the explanation is what we all know, what is the task of this member of the law, to talk about the establishment of a co-ordination body, so it's the discovery of warm water, but in the second part of the argument it says: '...' Article 14 The draft law provides for the Government to submit a report to the National Assembly on traffic safety on roads at least once a year, thus achieving the essence of the proposed change.' Oh, don't. If the government already writes that it reports, as you say at least once a year (we would like to see it more, we will talk about it later), then what bothers the one who submits the report to the National Assembly, which is required by the law passed by this assembly, that authority is designated responsible for the state of traffic security on the roads? Is that a problem? Does that hurt? Does that bother you? I hope not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19776	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19777	The substance of the amendments I have proposed is to introduce a commitment for local self-government units to establish a body, commission, advice or similar, inspectors, can be an incoherent body, a man who would coordinate traffic security tasks on the roads that are part of that unit of local self-government. The law does not foresee a commitment, it says - it can establish. I really think that if everyone is to change the picture of traffic in Serbia and reduce the damage suffered by society due to traffic accidents, then there is a commitment to be made. It is explained that some units of territorial self-government are unable to form it within six months. I think the poorest community is also able to determine one or two officials who will deal with these matters if it is a legal obligation. That activity itself will contribute to improving traffic safety in that municipality, which you do not say specifically, but in your explanation you have some sort of fictitious, undeveloped, poor municipality, I suppose, from southern Serbia, which will not be able to do so. Make them. It's their interest, and they have car accidents. This legal obligation will contribute, at least at some rate, to traffic security. That was the point of the amendment. I don't see why the promoter takes care of whether anyone can do it within six months, if it's gonna be hard for him, if he has money... If this is a legal obligation, then such a body will no doubt be formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19778	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Milan Skrbic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19779	The respected presidency, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia, has submitted an amendment aimed at improving this bill, which in the opinion of many, is full of shortcomings and has experienced many criticism from experts, whose opinion is shared by the SNS. Traffic security is affected by the vehicle, the man and the road, and therefore not all responsibility can be placed on the driver, as provided for by this bill. This bill foresees rigorous measures for drivers to be implemented through high fines, as well as penalty points, whose total number is 18. The SNS believes that the system of criminal points is good for rooting the rules of conduct with young drivers, but we have so many delicate traffic situations that are impossible to score, so the police will need a comprehensive instruction on how to apply this system, and then to report a violation based on which the judge will sentence. This bill is done according to European standards, but our roads and standards of Serbian citizens are unfortunately well below those standards, so this law will be difficult to implement. In addition to predicting rigorous measures for drivers, this law provides for the introduction of a Traffic Safety Agency. I have proposed to amend the removal of Article 9, which refers to the formation of another one from over a hundred until now formed agencies. The SNS believes traffic security on the roads should be at the highest level and certainly the proposed law should increase the security of all traffic users, but we also believe that traffic security should not be an excuse for inventing a new state body and new commitments to fund the state body. The Agency shall be based on a proposal from the Ministry of Traffic Affairs. If the ministry transfers jobs from its jurisdiction to the Transport Safety Agency and the Road Safety Co-ordination Body, why couldn't the agency be financed from the funds allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the competent ministry? Instead, more than 98 million dinars are allocated to the Agency's budget from the Republic of Serbia, and the Agency will, among other things, be financed from donations, contributions and other grants made to the founder or agency. Is this the Socially Responsible Government? Is it really necessary from the Republic of Serbia's budget to raise huge money for a large number of agencies at a time when Serbian citizens live at the edge of existence, fighting for every penny, happy if they have a job? The SNS believes that the establishment of the Agency is completely unnecessary, because the work carried out by the Agency in the ministry's jurisdiction, and we wonder when it will stop the establishment of parallel state institutions that additionally burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia and increase anyway a massive state apparatus, specifically by setting up this agency for another 38 jobs. So I suggest you adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19780	The remaining time available to the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia is 20 minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19781	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this amendment is one of the attempts to make European law. What is the essence of this amendment? Since the Agency is already forming, and it is good to form (unlike left and right radicals, I think the Agency is a good thing), I think that licenses for those who organise and conduct driving exams should be given by that agency. That means the police have nothing to look for in the process. The police need to control the application of this law, but to open auto-schools, close auto-schools, control work, give licenses for technical examinations, and yet determine who passed the driving test, sits on the commission -- that's not the spirit of European law. It needs to be pulled, like in Europe, from the police. You know what the police are doing. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that agency is with your ministry, or you would form it. This means that this agency, naturally, whoever's in charge of traffic, takes into its own hands and passes driver's exams. I know tens of millions of euros per year in driving exams, training. Only 150,000 a year have registered driver's exams, it's big money. But there is a strange wording in the explanation: "In this sense" ( since police are already controlling traffic), "The government thinks it is necessary for police officers to participate in checking when determining the level of knowledge of future drivers." I'm not saying that police officers shouldn't be involved in checking, I think the Agency should license whoever's capable of doing this. And I'm not saying that police officers should be excluded. I could have cops, if they get a license from the Agency, to participate, but why don't we, uh, see, Mr. Shami and I can do the same if we get a license? Why not a cab driver? What makes it the cop who knows who drives and who doesn't? Is it the basic interest of a police officer to drive? No, I don't. The cab driver is much more qualified to participate in a knowledge check than a cop, to be fair. The pizza guy drives the same thing, maybe he drives more than a cop. I guess the cop's got something else to do, and he's driving along the way. I think anyone who wants, knows, knows and gets a license from the Agency should be involved. So let it be some cabbie's gig, my God, what's the big deal? I'm not saying cops shouldn't be involved, but the police still have a crucial word about who gets the license... And there is, because two of them are sitting down, one's a cop, so if a cop says "you didn't pass" - no license. I think this solution will remove many sources of corruption, which I don't want to talk about, that I'm not wasting my time, because it's very important to bring people closer to the solutions of this law through this debate, but depoliticalization of this process is necessary and this is an amendment that contributes to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19782	The time available to the LDP parliamentary group is 12 minutes and 30 seconds. The People's MP Zoran Shami appeared in the debate in detail. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19783	Thank you. I must say, this also falls under extremely significant amendments. The DSS did not submit an amendment to Article 9, but, in later members, insisted on the Agency's driving exams. That's the key question. The police have nothing to look for in auto-schools or driving exams. If our mouths are full of Europe, that's not how it works. The police have an exceptional importance in organising and controlling traffic safety, and no one slows it down and no one takes it away, but schooling future drivers doesn't have to deal with it. We simply did not submit an amendment to this article because this was the result of the amendment, so we calculated that it could always be arranged later on. Now there's just one more thing I'd like to say. If the Agency, which is established and whose establishment of the DSS is not welcomed, is not involved in the exams, I am sorry, then I would be inclined to agree to the suggestions that the Agency is not even organising. If she's going to be a singing society, as it was made in this law, then she shouldn't even exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19784	Time at the disposal of the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group is 11 minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MPs Dragan Stevanović and Ljiljana Miladanovic in the same text. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS and I, in its name, have tried through this amendment to express our political stance and our relationship to the principle of forming a parallel state institution, in this case the Agency for Traffic Security. It seems to me, however low the level and whatever the level of traffic security is today, there was one in Serbia and it was working without the Traffic Safety Agency and it's not possible that the key thing to traffic security affirmation is going to be the agency you're proposing and predicting to form. In an explanation that you have rejected amendments among other things, it states that such a system is in line with world-wide good practice, and countries that are achieving the best results in traffic security today, so you can tell which one they are, a similar system was established in the late '50s, or early '60s. Serbia today, in the SRS' view, is facing one problem, which is the abuse of good practice from the developed world by the executive authority when it comes to agencies. Perhaps in someone else's hands, the agencies you plan to form would be both efficient and meaningful, but we are convinced that this agency has in the same way to promote this power as the promotion and hundreds of other agencies, which we have all talked about over the past months. You were mostly talking about them, from the point of view of the austerity measure, and when your mouth is full of the austerity measure, you predict the formation of a new agency. This isn't the only agency or newly formed body you're planning, you're planning someone else, but it's impossible for you in public, in means of public information, in your political actions and performances to talk about austerity measures, and to predict some new agencies and some new bodies. It is pointless to talk about a new agency that will employ 40 people and that you are talking about state administration reforms. It's easy to ask by the end of the year for local self-government to fire five or ten thousand people, as far as you're planning. And this agency will impose some obligations on local self-government. One objective question is raised, we mentioned in our principle debate – will local self-government in Serbia have the capacity to deal with the obligations that this, for us, unacceptable, agency will place on them? In the previous draft of the law, the agency was also planned. No matter what version, I repeat that for the SRS, the category of agency is unnecessary and unacceptable. Here, I will read several of the Agency's competences provided for in the previous version of the law: the development and improvement of theoretical and practical knowledge, the provision of conditions for the work of councils, the information of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the public on the state of traffic problems, monitoring and improvement of the system of traffic education, the implementation of preventive and propaganda activities, etc. When you compare these powers to the agency you are now planning and predicting in law, certain conclusions are imposed. I will only read a few points from the authority of this agency, and then say some conclusions: conduct an expert exam, organise knowledge training seminars and carry out knowledge examinations for lecturers in the training of drivers, organise training seminars and conduct training for driving instructors and professional drivers, conduct expert examinations for interrogators, organize training and organise and conduct expert examinations, etc. This agency has, I'd say, a commercial character. And it's not that controversial. To be clear, the SRS is not against the introduction of market principles, and even in this area, but one objective question is raised – is there room for the introduction of a new ballast agency in Serbia today, which has not resolved all the preconditions to implement this law in this way? And in reason, it is said, it says that the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget will be defined only for the start of work, but the funds, which should, on the market principle, be collected by this agency of yours, could also be collected by the state authorities that exist, which are involved in traffic security, perhaps in a more adequate and competent manner than this agency will do. You predict the law that the Agency has 38 employees. The Agency's budget for 2009 should be 98 million. Since you have accepted the amendment of the opposition MPs and that you will postpone the application of this law by six months (which, must be recognised, is only rational, because its application has been unthinked in the version as you predicted, and we will talk about it later, I suppose), out of that 98 million 60% of the money will go to taxes and gross salaries employed by that agency. That's nonsense. It is not an improvement in the level of traffic security in Serbia. These are not funds that will be able to achieve the crucial effects and raise the level of security in traffic, transport infrastructure, roads in Serbia, etc. But that money could have been spent much more rationally through the institutions that this state already has and owns, than the Ministry of Traffic, the Institute of Traffic Security, so why don't you say in the end, and the police. The SRS believes that in the accumulated state administration, you wanted to, you could find resources to trust the Agency with the same jobs, and to define the bodies that will deal with them in the context of these sectors that will be competent to implement the Transport Safety Act. For example, the Ministry of Infrastructure (Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you'll tell me if I'm wrong) had 196 employees in February. It's an official report from the government and the finance ministry. As you insist on this European category of multi-sectorism, the number of ministry employees who will implement the measures provided for in this law is 1,868 people, without the MUP. That in 1,900 people you cannot find and define by systematization or any other act by the organs or bodies that will deal with this – well, that is impossible. But you're going to add 40 more employees to this number, but you're going to justify that -- well, they're not on the budget, but the funds the agencies are going to raise on the basis of their services are going to fund the people we're going to hire. People who, we're convinced, are going to be guided by the practice and experience of all other agencies at the Agency will be exclusively, unfortunately, on a political basis or politically. You're talking about saving measures today and forming new agencies. You're doing everything contrary and contrary to what the austerity measures are. Make a parallel. The Ministry of Science and Technology has 55 employees, 55 executives, and you are predicting one agency with 40 employees. On the other hand, you have a Free Zone Authority that has one employee and is expected to have 15.5 million for the current year available. These are the nonsensions, the absurdities you are prone to, and the practice and through this agency will definitely not be interrupted. A series of examples prove that all stories about austerity measures do not have any foothold in your actions, in your practice, in your determination to really establish savings, or to act rationally, through the organization of the state administration, and thus to show that you are realistically viewing the reality in which Serbia is today. The money, I repeat, that you will collect through this agency, could collect the institutions that already exist and could instead pay, tax and contribute to spending much smarter and much more rationally. Serbia needs jobs, but not provided and defined in this way. Mr. Minister, your sector could raise Serbia. Investments in road and traffic infrastructure - on the one hand, to create new jobs, and on the other hand to create conditions to implement a law that is modern, which is European and which is in the spirit of the recommendations of the World Bank, the UN, the Netherlands and what I know is not everything. This question is not addressed to you now, but I ask – did Serbia, in terms of improving traffic infrastructure and traffic security, feel over the last three years a billion euros invested through the NIP? What is this big capital or I don't know what kind of facility Serbia can boast today and justify spent billion euros by unreasonable individuals in the government? Over 90 billion dinars, but there are no effects. We're the story of traffic infrastructure down to Corridor 10. That's what we talked about in the principle debate. It's ironic, it's unserious. You may be a man of great ambition, perhaps even it would be good if everything you want or want were to be realized, I agree with you, but you are part of a concept that is simply indolent and superficial. That's what I said today, and I'll repeat it by the end of the debate, who knows how many times. What is the investment climate when it comes to traffic security and traffic infrastructure? None, like in other dams and other segments. What kind of message did we send to the local public, to international, foreign investors based on the fact that we discredited ourselves about the Horgos-Požega concession? We are not going to be held accountable to anyone, globally and generally, - what message has been sent to those who would like to be present here through this kind of investment? The government, unfortunately, is showing interest in foreign investment today in the security of traffic only through one narrow segment. Not only, but most. It's the introduction of telecommunications and information technologies. The technology that will, you know, improve the system of traffic control and toll collection and only what will provide additional funding in the budget, just what will be patched up by budget deficit holes, which, in this year, is certainly going to be a hundred billion dinars. In such an atmosphere, we talk and talk about forming a new agency. For the SRS, that's unacceptable. We believe that the concept is completely different, with one responsible approach, this area can be arranged, can be controlled, can be defined through the competent ministries, competent state institutions, but that the agency is still one, a hundred and who knows which, of course, is not needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19786	National MP, the time available to you as an authorised representative has been used, and the time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 60 minutes and 24 seconds. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word of the messenger of the people is Veroljub Arsic, and the messenger of the people Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19787	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listen to this debate and I can't help thinking that we often deal with those topics that are a little bit too high, or we want to work with the Resavia School all the time. I don't know how it works in EU countries. I don't think we need this agency, and if we need it, if it has to be, I'm going to propose what would be her job later in my debate. I can say that since I come from Braničevsky County, there are a lot of our citizens who are on temporary work abroad. I remember that in the 1980s, my friends and acquaintances of 10, 12 and 15 fell on a driving test in Serbia, and then went to Mom and Dad and in a month they returned with a driver's license. What changed in his head, so suddenly he became able to pass the driver's exam? Or, if such good drivers with these foreign driver's licenses were learned there, raised there, what happens in their heads that as soon as they cross our border, they make such a circus on the way? It's not a problem of the law, it's a problem of society and state. And this is the law that won't solve that problem. That's what this is about. We've been trying to tell you all along. You're not going to make much of a criminal policy. She's a short breath, on short paths, giving a limited result. The problem is that society in general is that every traffic participant and one in charge of its application with a lot of knowledge and responsibilities are doing their job. There's a problem. The gentlemen of the Republic Police Department are the most responsible for the state of traffic, no one else. No ministers, they change. These are more or less there. How come the traffic situation has gotten so bad in the last 20 years? So it's not just the law, it's their fault. Most of all, they didn't learn to do their job. What else can I tell you when you have a situation where the traffic police control a motor vehicle driver, counts his lights, and on his eyes a cyclist rides a bike in a one-way street in a restricted direction - does not react. On his eyes, while he's in control, he's on foot running a traffic light with a red footlight - he's not responding. What did they teach the police for? To know what a violation of traffic regulations is, to know what a punishment is, to know how to fill the record or to ask for money from a driver? That's what you learned, gentlemen of the traffic police, your officers. And it's not their fault, it's your fault. If you already have that agency, in the list of jobs, from one to 17, it doesn't say who's going to train the traffic police to know what their job is. That it's not their job to punish, that it's their job to regulate, monitor, help and, in the end, if it doesn't help, to punish. But not them, there are many ways to do it. It's a traffic problem. And they're responsible for the same thing from the Republic Department of Traffic Police. It happens that they start going wild on the freeway, the ones with the side tables, and somehow they calm down at the toll ramp. I stop at a traffic patrol, I say - stop them, warn them to comply with traffic regulations. He says, sir, please don't, I can't, I'm not allowed to do that. But that doesn't tell me one, but five, at five time intervals. It's funny to you, I don't, because you don't know what they're doing on the highway. So, gentlemen, step out of those expensive cars of yours, sit on Friday afternoons in a regular car, don't have to flag the south, make it a little better, take the highway in any direction, and you'll see the traffic situation. You'll see that this law can't help you, it won't bring you results. That's the problem. Here we will resolve, bring legislation in line with EU legislation, provide for dragon penalties for unconscious drivers. It'll take some time, a year or two, to give the result, but it's your government's authority that, with its actions, prevents the driver from being punished at all. And this law doesn't predict it. You predict seminars, you predict this, that, but I'm telling you - your officers don't know their jobs, they don't know the traffic law. What more do you want?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19788	The remaining time available to the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia is 15 minutes. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19789	On behalf of the SPO, I would like to make an argument which is why it is not necessary to support this amendment and which is why the Agency is needed. In light of this law, it states that since 1990 17,000 people have died in these areas, that only material damage, about the greatest damage, the loss of life, the greatest Christian value, is illusory to speak, but that in EU countries, millions of euros are the accompanying material damage and damage in the context of mental suffering caused by the death of a close person after one died. The fact that one invested dinar returns tenfold to every sector where it invests in road traffic security speaks for itself. This is a better investment than it was interest when the Horse and Daffin existed, at a time when they began to commit serious fraud. The SPO advocates the reduction and efficiency of the state administration, but one body is needed, regardless of what it is called, which will systematically, professionally, developmentally and educationally work, because so far we have had various bodies dealing with the traffic security strategy, but now we have one organ that plays a fundamental role. Therefore, the SPO considers that this amendment should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19790	Time available, the remaining time for the parliamentary group for European Serbia is 88 minutes. The word was again sought by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not wanting to open any controversy with a distinguished colleague of Chicago, I don't think we've said in any way that from the point of view of statistics, which has been truly devastating – 17,000 dead since 1991 and here... True, I have to remind the ruling majority that it's statistics without KIM; so the number is, I guess, higher. Why Kosovo is excluded, I don't know. Probably in accordance with official or unofficial state policy. But we didn't dispute the definition of the Agency from the point of view that it shouldn't be invested in traffic security. We insist, we ask, we also asked that in the principle debate, and we ask now, in three years' time, the government spent a billion euros only through the National Investment Plan – is the level of traffic infrastructure raised to this extent that this law is applicable? If someone tells me that an investment of 100 million dinars per year is 60% for wages and earnings, investment in raising the level of traffic security, I really can't agree with that. We said - we should invest and invest, but spend money more rationally and smarter. Money should be invested in projects that will actually give effect. In this context, I also offered to Mr. Minister in principle – you have in the municipality from which I come the project of international character, for 132 km of traffic travel networks, done, international audit, in line with all the planning documents and acts valid in the state of Serbia, all aspects that define and security of traffic have been seen. Here, let the state invest in it. If someone convinces me that you need to pay the newly employed in the state administration, not to allocate money, which will be based on licensing, etc. Picking up, in these concrete projects, then we can't really agree on our concepts. But it is obvious that, because of this fact and the concept that this country is being managed and which apparently finds support in that European right, at this point, unfortunately, the situation is not good and we are not going in the right direction and in the right direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19792	The remaining time is 57 and a half minutes. The word was requested by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19793	I want to replicate to a respected colleague. If 100 million dinars on an annual basis saved only one human life, the SPO would vote to form the Agency. I don't want to talk about what life means, especially when a young man gets hurt in a car accident, but according to today's positive rules of court practice, when someone gets hurt, death, a few hundred thousand dinars is a fee that follows family members after one dead, plus the material cost of burial and issuing everything else, plus the damage to one and another car, plus the mental pain that permanently exists in the family of the dead. As a result, the SPO will support every penny, regardless of how it invests in traffic security, aimed at reducing the number of injured and killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19794	Time at the disposal of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia is 87 minutes. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who is entitled to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19795	I repeat something I said earlier, not wanting to open up a replica or a controversy with anyone here. I don't want a message sent to the public that the SRS believes that traffic is not meant to invest money in security or that we don't understand what the value or price of a human life is. Of course it should, but the model that we want to do it by or we think it should be done is diametrically different from the one that has been defined and managed by the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19796	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami and Milos Radulovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19797	This article provides that the Government adopts a national road safety strategy, and this national strategy comes about by proposing the National Strategy for Coordination, which we talked about earlier. No matter what this possibility stems from Article 143. The Government Act, when it comes to the possibility of creating strategies at the level of government, why in this area, given the importance of the subject, because the safety of road traffic is not just a matter, but rather a fundamental and significant matter for the state and citizens, would not, as in the field of energy, as in the area of justice, the National Assembly bring a National Strategy, because it is the same and its name, and then on the basis of this national strategy, that the plan is made by the Government? Because in the current bill, the Government adopts a National Strategy, and then brings a plan based on the National Strategy, and all Governments are proposed by the Co-ordination Body, which is established by the Government. You know, that doesn't make any sense at all, doesn't seem logical in practice. It would be okay if the Co-ordination Body proposes to the Government draft national strategies, which it adopts as a proposal and delivers to the National Assembly. That would be the right thing to do. This is also related to the next member, when it comes to the time of submission of the report, or Article 14, whether it should be done once or more times a year - we think it should be done more times a year. But it is logical that if the Government of the Republic of Serbia submits a report to the National Assembly on the state of security, then the previous National Assembly adopts a National Strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19798	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word was sought by Minister and People's MP Zoran Ostojic. The MP has the right to the championship, so Zoran Ostojić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19799	Do you accept this amendment of mine to report twice a year? I took one, when you say both, you mean the next? If you accept, I have nothing else to say but thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19800	I'm asking the minister to sign up again to the electronic system so that his statement will be recorded in the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19801	So we accept Mr. Zoran Ostojic's amendment to change the word "one time" behind the word "at least" once" in the word "twice". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19802	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The promoter has accepted the amendment, and I cannot give my word to the minister to speak about the next amendment until the next amendment is in order. The exchange of information was that the minister also accepted the amendment of MP Zoran Ostojic, who is only in the first row, and the amendment of MP Milos Radulovic, but the amendment of MP Milos Radulovic must come in turn so that the minister can get the word to say he accepts the amendment, because they are practically identical by text. They're not? All right. Would you like a word after the amendment the minister accepted? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19803	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to be very brief, just to be clear. A colleague Ostojic and the DSS parliamentary group had the same intention, for the government to be obliged to report to the National Assembly at least twice a year. But if you look closely at the amendments, counterpart Ostojic suggested that it stand in attitude 1, and MP, our distinguished colleague, Milos Radulovic, asked that in both positions of Article 14 instead of "one time" stand the word "two times". I think that difference is important and that there will be no confusion in some technical order of text, the amendment of counterpart Radulovic also includes the wish of counterpart Ostojic, but fully regulates the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19804	Anyone else want a word for the amendment submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word was sought by Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19805	So, we accept Mr Milos Radulovic's amendment that in Article 14 in both positions the word "one time" is changed in the word "twice". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19806	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zoran Shami together submitted the 18th amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19807	Just one procedural question before that. Since the amendments are in Art. 18th and 19th mutually conditioned, can I use the opportunity to talk about both amendments, total four? No, I don't. Then nothing, I'm talking about article 18 first, and then we'll move on. So this is where article 18 is scheduled to be deleted. Article 18 speaks of how funds from fines will be identified. In order to avoid confusion, we did not ask to delete Article 18 because we do not want to define the funds from the payment of fines to budget users, but rather to move this matter to the current Article 19. In the later amendment, we changed Article 19, which will be said, so that this change in nomotechnical terms practically loses one member, but matter remains the same, distributed to the former members of 17 and 19. That was the whole idea. Now I'm going to start that argument, and then I'm going to continue it when the amendment comes to Article 19. In fact, Article 17 sets out the financing of traffic security and says sources for security of traffic -- the Republic's budget, penalties for violations, gifts, contributions and other revenues -- have been charged. Then Article 18, which we are looking for now, tells us what happens to the funds from the fines paid, and says that the fines of 70% of the funds will belong to the budget of the Republic. This now means that the funds belonging to the Republic's budget will be able to continue to be allocated in accordance with what is said here, but also in accordance with some other needs that the Republic's budget can have in terms of how much funds are collected and what budget is set up for the current year. When it comes to the rest, it is said that 30% belongs to the budget of local self-government units whose territory has been committed. Now, of the 70% of the funds belonging to the Republic's budget (that's why I said there's one restriction), 75% is used to equip traffic police units, and then in article 19, all the funds in Article 17 (the previous one, which was general and which talked about all the total assets used for traffic promotion purposes) are used for the work of the Body for Coordination, the improvement of traffic education and education, preventive and promotional activities in the field of traffic security, for scientific research in this area... The 5th says this: "Technical equipment of traffic police units that control and regulate traffic on roads and other traffic security authorities". Thus, Article 19 summed up some of the activities for which money would be invested from the fines provided for in Article 18. It follows from this: that the police, which have been given great jurisdiction in several areas, in several areas (which we have objected and we believe should be changed), such as driver education, driving exams, participation and the way in the control of traffic and the collection of fines, so this same structure should collect most of the funds that go into fines, and before that into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, for activities that are ultimately fixed. We felt that a more rational solution was to reduce that number to 55%, and the government equally, according to its programme, when the budget is set for the next financial year, can freely define the rest of the funds wherever it wants, and also for this purpose. Therefore, these amendments have not been withdrawn for this purpose, but these funds can also be used for that purpose. However, the scale is moved down to 55%, and then, even later, by eradicating this member and by moving the contents of that member to Article 19, more correctly nomotechnically regulating the whole matter and then determining exactly what purpose, in this particular case, when it comes to fines, can be used to avoid any subsequent abuses. It was an idea. When the article 19 comes, since I spent two minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, and then I'm going to spend a little bit more on Article 19, because I think this is very important, and I need to explain it in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19808	The time available to the DSS parliamentary group is 15 minutes and 10 seconds. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19809	If I can count correctly, this amendment is about the money that remains for the police. There's two problems here. If I calculated correctly, under the proposed law, the police would be fined 52.5% of the total fines. Since 70% is going to the police, it's 52 and let's take that as it is, and the figures are about 40 million euros a year, or 30-40 million. There are approximately 20m euros in traffic police equipment under the proposed law, and the DSS would take that down by about 15%. Because when you recalculate the percentage to the percent, 38.5% would be left with you left with 52%, which is about a 15% difference. That's one problem. I really can't judge the option you want out of punishment. I'm just afraid that the law is set up so that the police will be quite motivated to charge fines, which is not bad, because the certainity of the fine makes a favourable contribution to traffic safety. Now, since the police aren't working, they're not punishing the belt, etc., we're objectively in damage to that. I have no doubt that the police are waiting for the law to be passed and to be strict, to prove that the law she wrote is phenomenal. But let's get back to something else. When you say it goes to the traffic police, are there vehicles or just equipment, radar and anything that contributes to security? If they are vehicles, then next year the minister can, by an internal act of police, transfer vehicles from the traffic police to the criminal police, to the border police, where you will agree, punishment money does not go to increase traffic safety. Whether 38% or 52%, we speak essentially.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19810	The remaining time available to the LDP parliamentary group is 10 minutes. Does anyone else want a word in the debate under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zoran Shami submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19811	We're finally coming up with a key amendment. So, after we asked to delete Article 18, we transferred what is the matter of Article 18 to Article 19, where it belongs, because it clearly follows the system of fundraising and spending for these purposes. It's legal or nomotechnical, however you like, perfectly done here. Not to brag, but it's really well done. The only question is whether or not the legislator wants to accept this principle. What did we say? As my predecessor said, by commenting on this amendment, the smallest problem we can face, not out of the desire for someone to abuse, I don't know what, but you know that, one ministry, one state institution wants all the best for the realisation of its total affairs and using the opportunity to infuse significant money from fines in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that they belong to an adequate share, then they will use those funds for what they consider to be the most difficult, most interesting at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, we're passing road safety laws here. The elemental logic is that funds from fines are used, which was also some previous intensity of the promoter, precisely for the purpose of maintaining security, improving traffic safety on the roads. When it comes to the police, the traffic police as a significant participant in improving and maintaining traffic safety on the roads, then we must make sure that we determine exactly what these funds are going to. In addition to reducing the total funds to about 37-38%, as Mr Ostojic said, and here compared to 70% of the funds raised to 55% of that part, we believe, I will repeat, that the rest that we allegedly threw out does not mean that it is expelled, that it will not be used for these needs and these purposes. They will, because that's exactly what this law predicts, only then the government is more free to determine what to do with those funds. He can also give them for vehicles to the traffic police, and the government will do it with its own program, so don't let this law do it automatically. What this law has to do automatically and what our obligation here is to determine the minimum of what the traffic police have to get. We all need to figure out what that minimum is here. Please follow this closely. A minimum that the traffic police (in the letter of the law, not after the government's decision, has the right to do anything else, don't forget, we haven't exposed it here), according to this law should get the following - 55% of those 70% of the funds for specific equipment and means to control and regulate traffic of traffic units of traffic police. It's a minimum. Give them the means to do it. When it's written in the law, no one can define those assets for anything else, they must be used for it. And without being very sorry for this difference between 55% and 70%, I repeat once again, and this is true, the Government of the Republic of Serbia can, on the basis of its programme, define these funds as it pleases, so it can also define them for the work of the MUP, as well as for the work of the police in the framework of the MUP. It is not disputed, only in this way, very clear and correct, it protects what is a social need, which is the content of a social need, and as far as direct security control traffic is concerned. That was the whole idea. I wish you'd like this idea and adopt it. That would be correct for all of us. And ladies and gentlemen of the people of the ruling majority, believe me, this has nothing to do with our policy in the assembly benches, with the party's certainty of anything else. This is a matter of elemental logic. In particular, those who are members of the Transport Committee and those who are close to the matter to sit, discuss this in their MPs' club and agree in the day of the vote, if the Government does not accept, that this amendment should be adopted. We'll take 18th and 19th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19812	The remaining time of the DSS parliamentary group is 13 minutes and 10 seconds. The People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz has the word, and after him is the Messenger Mirko Chikiriz, and after him Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19813	Madam Chairman, by analysing the Transport Safety Act and the amendment tabled, I have concluded that the proposed member of the law is also a good one, but that it is a good one and an amendment. It's a good thing local self-government units get 30% of the amount of fines they charge, that's in the spirit and decentralisation of the state's financial resources, but also in the spirit of the development of traffic in the area managed by local self-government units. I think the amendment is appropriate and the funds that will be charged from fines will go to the right side.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19814	The word has an MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19815	I appeal not to you, Mr. Mrkonjic, but to these colleagues next to you, they are not from your ministry. We criticize you for what you deserve, praise you for what you deserve when you accept the amendments. Do something to convince us that you are ready to give up these police monopolys in this sphere. Mr. Aligrudic, in fact, has proposed an amendment that means this. Now, according to this law, out of 40m euros in fines, you, i.e. the Traffic Police Administration, would have 22m. He suggests, in fact, you belong to 16, and those six to 22 that the government decides what to do and when to give it to you. I think it's perfectly reasonable, especially what, to be honest, and of these 30%, i.e. Of these 12 million who go to local self-government, you'll scratch yourself pretty good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19816	The remaining time for the LDP parliamentary group is nine minutes. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm just asking you to register.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19817	This amendment simply strengthens that member, as Article 22 speaks of a situation where something happens on a road that threatens traffic safety, and now lists a traffic participant, the owner, or the vehicle user... So three or four attitudes are about the obligation of whoever noticed it (stone, barrier, etc.).And there's no police anywhere. I'm merely suggesting that the police are obliged to take measures immediately upon the knowledge of an event, that is, a phenomenon that could threaten or threaten traffic safety, to remove dangers. In the light of the non-acceptance of this amendment, it is said that the provision of Article 294. The draft law provides that when traffic control determines the existence of a direct danger to traffic users, the competent internal affairs authority will order the road manager to take measures to eliminate the immediate danger. You will agree that your argument that this exists in Article 294 cannot be a reason to reject this amendment, which determines the obligation for the police. Imagine, so if the cop didn't control the road, and he saw it, then he has no obligation to report the toll. What does it mean to report to the toll? I didn't think I'd get a chance to mention the accident of former Interior Minister Jocic, but let her be your science, and no one was responsible for that accident. Why? Is it nobody's fault? It won't be. The man's hurt worse. Somebody's got to be guilty. Was that hole on the fence? She was. Could the police have found a hole in the fence regularly, ordered the toll to patch up the fence, so by the time all this happened, that dog had passed and there was an accident? I think you need to make some commitments, not just have rights under this law. What's wrong with you saying that, besides the traffickers, the driver, the owner, the passerby and all, and the police have some obligation to do something when they see the obstacle? It's scandalous how bad the law is so far. After all, it is evidence that no one was responsible for the accident of Minister Jocic, which will say that we can only assume from that fact who was responsible for the accident. Under this law, it will eventually turn out to be Jocic's fault. And even if he's guilty, there's definitely someone else's, a lot more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19818	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudić, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zoran Shami together submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19819	If there is an obstacle on the road, what kind of object, what kind of substance, some hole, or by accident, this law obliges drivers to take what they see or remove from the road, if they can, and if they can't remove the obstacle that has been found on the road, that they certainly, without delay, notify the traffic police or the road. The failure to comply with such a legal obligation entails a certain criminal liability. On the other hand, that's just fine. This is the way traffic users should behave, in accordance with the traffic culture that this law in some way imposes. The problem arises in a different sense. What happens from the moment a securityist driver informs the traffic police and travels that an indelible obstacle to him is on the way, say, a 1-meter hole? Under this law, nothing at all. Look at the provisions of this law, from first to last - nothing. And what other law is this, I ask you, who will arrange this matter, impose an obligation on the authorities to respond? None, except for this one. What we didn't do so well, we didn't have time because you scheduled us to sit back-to-back, we didn't get the amendment to react, so that after the police's obligation to respond without delay in removing obstacles on the road, we didn't have time to put a criminal provision in the criminal part of the law. But it's not a distraction. If this amendment is accepted, the Traffic Committee may still meet until the debate is concluded in particular and lay down an amendment to the criminal section for the responsible person, from the way or one of the police, so please accept it. You have one more piece of this amendment. In paragraph 5, the owner, or the vehicle user, shall not allow the discarded vehicle to be placed on the road, or where the vehicle is allowed to stop and park. I know what the poet meant. He was going to say that the owner or user of the vehicle, when his vehicle is no longer in use because it's being rejected, can't leave it in a traffic jam. It's as clear as day. But believe me, people, as it's written, in practice, especially in breaking practice, will be interpreted in the following way. The vehicle owner or user of the vehicle that has been rejected and left on the traffic surface or even in a situation where the vehicle owner or user has nothing to do with the vehicle being there. I'm giving a very simple example. You have a car crash, then it gets rejected, you can't use it, you do what it takes, turn some service, tow truck service to take him somewhere else and let you know where they took him, they're supposed to do their job securely and correctly and do it, charge you for it, and then leave him in some parking space. In determining that the vehicle is yours, the police file a misdemeanor report to the judge and you get a call from the judge for violations as the owner of the vehicle to choose to pay the fine for your money, and you don't know what he's doing, took the vehicle to a place where it can't be. What I'm saying is, you didn't want this consequence of what you wrote, it was misspelled. So this second part of the amendment is very correct and it says -- it's forbidden to leave a discarded vehicle on the traffic surface, and the judge for the offenses will easily determine who did it, whose basis is the responsibility and will charge the penalty for what was done. Unfortunately, this is all part of one amendment, so it's conditional, if you accept one item, they'll accept another, but there's no reason not to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19820	The remaining time available for the DSS parliamentary group is 10 minutes and 40 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19821	My amendment only specifies this position of Article 23. You wrote, "When it approaches the pedestrian crossing, the driver must adjust the speed of the vehicle so that in any situation he sees or has reason to predict, he can safely stop the vehicle in front of the pedestrian crossing." You know, that rubber pattern of speed adjustment needs to be thrown out because it really allows absolutely great discretionary power to both police and courts. It's always -- you haven't adjusted your speed; even though you respected the sign, you're guilty because you haven't adjusted your speed. I'm just suggesting that we formulate it differently. If the mode of movement, or the behavior of pedestrians, because first of all we have to go, what if the pedestrian is turned back, does not show the intention of crossing, so suddenly turns and runs, objectively, the driver cannot be guilty or cannot be 100% guilty. Give me some responsibility. If you don't want any responsibility to the police, get some off the driver and on foot. So, if the method of movement, or the behavior of the pedestrians, shows that the pedestrian will be located on the vehicle's path, the driver is obliged to take action to avoid contact with the pedestrian. You're saying he's obliged to adjust speed. And you're constantly focused on that speed. It's not just a speed that can cause an accident. He can talk on the phone, and he's going slow so he can't see, or he's turning around. So I think what I'm proposing is more concrete and it'll be clearer who's to blame. This is how it's always gonna be the driver's fault. The third attitude: "In part of the road", you say in the proposal, "on which children are moving, or are placed", is exactly what it is written, "a traffic sign of the participation of children in traffic," means either children are moving or there are signs, "a driver is obliged to drive with particular caution". I suggest it says, "A part of the way," because it's about children, and I think they have to enjoy a higher degree of protection, the highest degree, is seen from the priority, "at which there's a reason to predict the children coming out of the way," it exists, and if there's no sign that the children are on the road and if they don't see children, "the driver is obliged to move at such a rate that they won't endanger the safety of children." I think this formulation of mine is more in favor of children than it is of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19822	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Pursuant to Article 24 of the amendment, Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Traffic and Connections. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 24th amendment together. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19823	I would really like to express my great satisfaction first that 10 DSS amendments have been accepted by the government and the competent committees, but I think Mr Mr Mrkonjic's presence here today is valuable, because five DSS amendments have also been accepted by the competent Transport Committee. So MPs of the ruling majority voted for our amendments, and you can accept them today so that they become an integral part of the text, because I'm really afraid that, in the sea of amendments when we vote and decide, when we do it in a few days, something that should be forgotten can happen. The fact is that we had really good intentions and had a responsible and professional approach to the writing of amendments. I don't think our desire to fix the law is at stake, as are all the other colleagues who have submitted the amendments. When submitting amendments to this article, we also had a good intention, because it was really a desire for vehicles operated by special-needed persons to be clearly marked so that they would have the advantage of parking and traffic participation, to draw attention to all traffickers in the right way and to enable persons with special needs to move easier and easier and better in traffic. A colleague of Gordana Rajkov has submitted the same amendment as we have, that such a vehicle must be marked, and our intention has indeed been good, and I'm afraid the government's explanation is going in some other direction. We didn't want to discriminate against these people, but we really just wanted to ease their participation in traffic. I think it's a mistake that this amendment wasn't accepted, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19824	Anyone else want a word? ( No. ) The National MP Gordan Rajkov submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment together includes the mid-term MPs Milos Radulović and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19825	Article 25 states: "The driver of the vehicle driving by the vehicle for public transport of passengers, i.e. the bus carrying out the transport of passengers for his own needs, located at the stop, must manage the vehicle so that it does not endanger the person entering or exiting the vehicle". Of course it's his obligation, but in order to define it more precisely and that it would really be at all times like that, we have tried with our amendment to fix it, to make it look – the driver of the vehicle that intends to tour that vehicle. When he starts to run, if he hasn't already paid attention, then, we're afraid, at that point, it's very late to react. Even in the explanation of the government that does not accept this amendment, it says that the government does not accept it because ''the driver who intends to move the vehicle to the right or to the left is prescribed to change the traffic tape, run across, stop... He can do it in a safe way. This amendment is exactly what we want to do - that his attention must be strengthened when he intends to go around that vehicle. Not when you're on a bus stop, you're on your way, and then someone commits you to watch out for a little bit more, because a foot can get out of the front of the bus and fall under the wheels. It's a technical editorial, but it defines this member of the law much more precisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19826	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19827	Here's to see what's not in line with the legal system. In Article 26. The bill says that "During the entry and exit of the children from the vehicle, the driver of that vehicle must include all direction indicators". We've given the amendment to add the words 'if the vehicle has 'em'. Ladies and gentlemen, on our roadways we're still moving vehicles that don't have it. I don't see anyone giving the law to shut those vehicles out of traffic. Fica does not have a device to include all four blinkers. How's he gonna turn it on? And I would still like someone from the Legislative Committee to explain to me why it is not in line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I really don't know. I mean, "let's have fun."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19828	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19829	It is a member of the law that says that the driver is obliged to enable bus traffic to be included in the settlement, etc. We suggest that the words "in the settlement" be deleted. Does that mean the driver on the road where the bus stop should not miss the bus to get involved in traffic? In our opinion, the words "in the settlement" are too high. You should always let the bus that's on the stand get involved in traffic. That's our amendment. I really don't understand. I'm starting to get a comedian to the extent that the bill promoter of some notorious matter won't accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19830	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19831	I think this amendment is also good, because of the fact, among other things, that drivers, first of all, with the current degree of traffic culture, very rarely allow vehicles of public transport to be involved in traffic from their viewpoints before them. Under two, especially when they are hot, passengers are nervous if there are no air conditioning in the buses and before the bus is included in traffic most often from the front of the bus run August and then there is an increased risk of traffic accidents. It's very common for these accidents to occur. If this amendment were accepted, buses would be involved in traffic earlier. And you don't, of course, need to distinguish between buses that traffic in a populated place or on an open road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19832	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Ostojić submitted an amendment to Article 28 - to add a new Article 28a after article 28a. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19833	This Member of the bill regulates the use of mobile phones and other vehicle communication devices. The first point is that "the driver must not use the phone, or other communication devices unless it does not, or does not use equipment that enables phone calls without the engagement of hands during driving". I think this member of the law is generally quite badly formulated. Let's just say, from this I'm guessing he can type messages. When you read it carefully, it allows me to make a phone call with "hands Fri", that I have a device, but I can use the phone. The position of the 4th member shall be referred to the provisions of Article 1, which relate to other devices, I hope not to the phone, but to radio stations and others. It shall not apply to vehicles with passing championships, to vehicles accompanied by motor taxi drivers in the performance of official duty. There are no fundamental remarks here, such as those of mutual solidarity, or whatever it was, and some of the other members who will come, such as. a credible document, minutes, etc. This is just a stylish formulation, which is clearer, by my judgment, in my formulation. It is interesting that this supplement, in which I suggest that 'in a populated place the driver must not, for an unwarranted reason, create a noise by car' (this is an addition to this about mobile phones), you reject this amendment of mine with an explanation: 'The government does not accept this amendment because it is a question of banning noise by a vehicle specified in Article 164 paragraph 2', and you do not mention at all what I formulated around mobile phones. I think we need to formulate this member around cell phones a lot more precisely. Indeed in practice, I have experience from other countries, I foresee quite misunderstandings with police and citizens about mobile phones and these other devices, especially for these public services, etc. Because here you just mentioned a taxi, you didn't mention vehicles, vehicles with championships, and there are more, and I predicted users of other devices, radio stations, which you didn't see coming, so they'd be out of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19834	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19835	Thank you. First of all, the DSS MPs are very supportive of a member of the law prohibiting the use of a mobile phone while driving. So it was high time to do something like that, because all the research showed that a large number of car accidents, sometimes even very serious ones, were created because the driver with reduced attention was driving because he was also having a phone conversation. We proposed one formulation, because we weren't satisfied with the legal formula (so, not with the idea, but with the formulation) and we gave a formula that we think is better than the one proposed in the law. The government, pronouncing the law, obviously doesn't mean it. I'm starting to give up slowly to convince the one who's pretending to be deaf so he can hear something after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19836	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 29, as you can see in the report submitted by the Transport and Communications Committee, was withdrawn from the procedure. Amendments to Article 4, which I informed the National Assembly and before the report was split, and amendments to Articles 29, 44, 96, 123, 246, 266, 267 and 286 were withdrawn from the procedure under Article 145(1). Rules of Procedure, by decision of the Proposer. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Miroslav Petkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, nor has the Transport and Connection Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment contrary to the general legal principles. Regarding the corrections to the situation when this record was typed for the assembly session, the word has the first MP, Zoran Shami, and the MP Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19837	I sat at a meeting of the Traffic Committee, which, by voting 10:0, accepted the amendment. Someone probably tipped them off that they couldn't accept him. Here's the thing. The law, in Article 29, states: ''A vehicle shall not be used in traffic on the road, nor shall it be used to find a device, or a means to detect or interfere with the operation of a speed measurement device... "This is a distraction." It's okay. It is not possible to interfere with devices used by state authorities under their own responsibility. But why can't it be discovered? What is the purpose of this law? Is the aim of this law to make as many drivers commit a violation as possible, to drive at a speed greater than allowed and then punish themselves, or is it the law that the driver adheres to traffic signs, to prevent the driver from driving properly? What's a shame if I'm informed that the police are measuring speed? In other countries, moreover, they're setting up radar on the road with no cops. Inflammation radar, drivers detect it and say -- watch out, radar records. No cops at all. And they take their foot off the gas and everything's fine. As soon as we define ourselves as our goal is to punish the driver, not to aim for the driver to drive according to regulations, our traffic safety law has nothing to do with it. In a country that has the best regulated traffic in Europe, which is Denmark, there is no such provision. Please, I insist on not defending the driver to get information to measure speed. That's one thing. There's one more indirect thing. This fact will force the police to introduce video surveillance as soon as possible. It takes effort. Introduce video surveillance, he can't be detected. Video surveillance will record that I was running on the highway 180 kilometers an hour and then fold the tab and punish me as much as I need to be punished. That's what drivers are gonna do and how they're gonna respect you. So, the DSS insists and prays to the government, Mr. Mrkonjic as a representative of the government, as well as to others, in the end I will remind him which members, who are far too high to accept this member of the law. Otherwise, I have to say that what the Traffic Committee has now done, has scheduled a session and has not notified the parliamentary groups, the DSS has no representatives on that committee, and at a time when we have to sit here, and in this change of decisions it has already made once – it is obviously a major pressure. I'm very angry with the police. Please allow this amendment to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19838	I'm asking the service to make a correction in the stenogram. My slip didn't read how it was prepared. So the amendment to Article 29, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Miroslav Petkovic, was not accepted by the government. That part in the stenogram was read the same time. But the Transport and Communications Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment contrary to the general legal principles. A mistake was made in joining sentences, with my accidental failure. I apologize to the MPs and ask for correction in the stenogram. National MP Jasmina Milosevic has a word, so the MPs Dragan Stevanovic and Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19839	You've already made up your own mind. I wanted to say that we had the opposite of the opinion of the Committee and the Government here. But here I'm going to deny myself, let me not be resented by other members of the Committee and other people, but it's simply something I'm going to say as an opinion that later came to me, no one has imputed it to me, no one has told me that I should talk about it. At the first moment, it wasn't clear to me, either, why they would ban use, not to interfere, but simply to detect the radar on the way. The driver might feel safer and feel like he's controlling his own driving path. But then I remembered our mentality, that it would practically happen so that our drivers wouldn't benefit from radar detectors in the sense that they're occasionally correcting themselves, but they'd be watching as they escalate the speed limit wherever possible. Practically, it would serve him to drive safely only where he knows he has radar control, and his conscience doesn't tell him where there's no radar control, and it would all be about escuiting the radar itself. It would be his only conscience, and his safe ride would be somewhere else. And with us, the most common cause of car accidents is an unadjusted rate, rarely smaller, mostly higher speed. Since we like to call, and that's just fine, to countries in the environment and Europe, I have some information here. We have an example in Croatia and Germany, where a radar detector is banned. In Germany, around 100 euros is the penalty for this violation, and the devices are being taken away. A similar situation is also in France, which has the most noticeable results in improving the state of traffic itself, where people using a radar detector pay a fine, their driver's license is taken away, and the devices are taken away and destroyed. Also, imports, sales or distribution of these devices are strictly prohibited and are jailed up to two years and fined up to 30,000 euros. If we went back to our picture now, let the radar detectors be used, what would that look like? In order for the police to even be able to control whether he's using radar detectors just to eskiate places where he has to follow the driving rules, it would look like this: every ten kilometers would have to be set up radar. Now, considering that the controls are being carried out on 17,000 kilometers of our roads, not taking into account local roads, streets in settlements, etc., that means we would need about 1,700 radar devices, and right now there are about a hundred radars or more in our police force. In addition, to work on those 1,700 radars, because there is training, systematization in the business, means that we would need about 9,000 new police officers, and to get all these devices that would be needed for people who would have previously been trained to work, we would need about 70 million euros a year, and that is not possible right now, and we all know that, no one can kill that. We have an alternative to set up video surveillance, which I know will be done safely in some places, but when you have 17,000 miles of time and all that I've listed, I don't think that's possible for us. So Denmark isn't just physical to us, it's distant and mental. When we consider our responsibility, that is, our culture (unfortunately, still a couple), I think we are not ready to use these devices because in 100% of the cases we are going to abuse them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19840	The time available to MP Jasmina Milosevic as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group is 11 minutes. The word has been given by MP Tomislav Nikolic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19841	Did I get the word? You read a different order a little bit, so I got a little confused. I, too, am against accepting this amendment. I'll give you some other reasons, because I don't think the word "discover" should be thrown out. First, there are devices that work both functions at the same time, so now a cop will have to know, when the driver has a device in the vehicle, whether it's for him to detect the radar or distract him. You know, when he discovers the radar, the device can interfere with it. Second of all, if we all know how much the speed limit is on the road, in the neighborhood, what do we need a radar detection device for? We either respect that restriction, or we don't respect it. The one who doesn't respect him mostly has a lot more money than the one who respects him, because people who don't have money drive more modest cars. People who have money drive faster cars, and in a car like that, you have no sense of speed. When you cut from 180 to 160, it's like you like it. But he should take that driver out to stand by the road, run past him with someone he visited like this, then figure out what he put in the bag when he sat down to drive at that speed. By the time we can set up these speed recording and tracking systems everywhere and inform the citizens where they are, which is perfectly normal, until then, we don't need to suggest that the state or the police or the law or security can be deceived in some way. So I object that there are any devices that we can play the law with. But I have this attitude without change. So, I respect Mr. Shami's wish, and I respect his explanation, but it seems to me that, in fact, we're just opening up a new problem. As much as I would have had to object and use my mobile phone, but there's no point in making this debate any longer difficult. Because, God knows, at the time of this law, what else will be invented in the world, what kind of devices will exist and all the police will be able to cheat. Because the police have come down a little bit on the punishment squad, not on the relief squad, because they have a commitment to how much money they need to put into the budget. That's why, when we're banning someone from playing with devices that only the state should have, just the police, just the government, by law, then we should completely throw out the possibility that a citizen who drives a car unwittingly is not driving according to the law, but he has some money, for example. 1,000 euros, allowing him to never be punished. And in fact, he's gonna be the winemaker of a serious car accident, not the one who drives 65 or 70 miles an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19842	The remaining time available to the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia is 11 minutes and 30 seconds. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19843	I wanted to comment on this amendment, and it seems to me that Professor Shami's arguments can also be considered valid, but certainly, on the other hand and on the other hand, they could in some way be taken as valid and held by a fellow member of Milosevic. However, I believe that the government should have accepted this amendment, and here I will also make my views known why. In the principled debate, representatives of the congregation's majority then, it seems to me, one question to the government's representatives, to which we have not received an answer – what kind of treatment will this member, under this law, have vehicles that have such devices still in place in the production process? Then we were warned of high-tech technology, that some cars in the production are getting these devices and these are now theirs whether any additional or standard equipment, but they exist in those vehicles. I'm now interested in how the law will be treated by drivers who use such vehicles, and they're not guilty of having that device. Why am I asking this question? Mr. Minister, within the framework of criminal provisions relating to this member of the law and such offences, fines of 15 to 30,000 dinars or 30 days of imprisonment are provided for the use of anti-radar devices, and if an accident is caused, 30 to 50,000 dinars or 60 days in prison. I'm afraid at one point someone who owns a vehicle with these devices will either be discriminated against or, on the other hand, the law will at some point be inapplicable. From that point of view, we thought you should consider this, or accept it as an amendment, or possibly work it out in the law in an appropriate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19844	The word has an MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19845	I have to say, I'm just shocked. Does it, Miss Milosevic, mean that you voted on the Committee for this amendment, but when the vote comes, you will vote against the amendment because someone explained that it was a mistake? So all of the ruling majority who voted with us from the opposition for this were wrong? That reminds me of one solution that you later introduced, that 250 drivers could be wrong, and one to be right, when it comes to hitting from behind, but we'll get to it. Well done. As long as you have lobbyists like this, I'm not worried about the police. We can really be happy that when Jocic kidnapped him from the Department of Traffic, you didn't write an even worse law. This is a scandal. I'm saying this for the citizens. If there are vehicles in which the device is installed, that means there's no... Which country and which manufacturer is crazy to put a device that interferes with the radar? There's no such thing as radar. It's for detection. Gentlemen, don't lie to me. It's their interest. They've got their lobbyists all over here in the O.R. You accepted the amendment, and now you won't accept it. The point is, the police are cheating on citizens to film them, not film them. And that's why citizens have the right to have a detector. Not the disruptor, the detector. That they can't lie to them if they've recorded them. And that happens, and you all know it. And the naive are paying. Mrs. Milosevic, you say - a citizen will now drive only properly where it is recorded, and when he does not detect that the radar is nearby, then he will go wild. What kind of driver is that? What's he gonna do now? Now he's gonna follow the rules? He's going to go wild all the time now, and he's going to calm down when he sees the radar. So, the detector contributes to traffic safety. The savages will be savage, except occasionally, when they see radar filming them. Now they go wild all the time. I don't understand. Tell me openly what this is about - we want discretionary authority, we want to do as we have so far, the police are not ready to change into European standards and, simply, to understand. What do we do -- we live in this country, we live, we deal, we talk, but don't make us crazy. Well, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19846	The word has been issued by Parliament MP Jasmina Milosevic, an authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19847	I don't know if they're cheating on people or not, I've never been stopped by the police in my life and I drove faster than I should have. So that's something you say. And if you say something and something that might be, it doesn't mean it is. I don't want to get into it. The fact is that those who have been savages will still be likely to go wild, that's their problem, but they'll be caught anyway, because they won't be able to get on that piece of road where they act like a safe driver to play it. As far as my decision is concerned (I don't affect other members of the Transport and Communications Committee, they'll vote as they want), I just said in time and I think it's okay that I publicly said what I think now, that I've changed my mind, and I think it's a lot fairer than it was when the vote happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19848	The word has been made by MP Nikola Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19849	I'd like to speak very briefly. I'm driving a car that has a sweater in it. They say he can be eliminated. Well, then you can eliminate any of that, but that car is so bought. I asked around a little since it's when you'd later be implanted. Post-installation of jammer, so-called. The radar detector (what you want us to call it), is very complicated and costs 400 and more euros. So it's not a harmless story at all. On the other hand, I've been driving since my 18th birthday, it was a gift for my mother's age. I may have crossed a million miles, but 900,000. I've never paid a speeding ticket for any other offenses. But I saw and saw that the traffic police, with all due respect for their very poor position and difficult working conditions, except holding a gun, radar or something, did nothing else. Believe me, I saw on the highway of a man who solves crosswords behind a wheel, literally. Not to talk about phone calls, not to talk about a man holding two cell phones and texting at the same time. We could talk about such examples as we want, but we're only tied to speed. Unadjusted speed is due to a huge number of other circumstances, not just a teager that shows how fast you drive. I came here with a 30-year-old law practice. I defended hundreds of participants in car accidents, I was also on the side of the damaged. Believe me, there are no innocents in car accidents. No matter who the hand of justice is against, it's all their fault. So, this increased risk of traffic, as a phenomenon, essentially requires everyone to make us act preventively, not just dealing with the consequences. I would prefer that there is much more to this law about the obligations of the traffic police, to exclude from the traffic of drivers who are in the fog (and you don't see a finger in front of the eye) driving without the lights on, who drive cars that you can see at first sight are absolutely technically incorrect, who have no direction indicators (someone here talked about it) and a small million other things so that the traffic culture of repairs, the traffic situation has improved and reduced all the negative effects. If my jammer is going to contribute to it, right now, with the help of my friends, if they can do it, or authorized repairmen, I'm going to take it off. But he won't. Never mind. There's one more thing to tell you, Mrs. Milosevic. You mentioned, I think, some German area. In Austria, the police, of course, have radar, but before you come across it, you have a sign -- watch the radar. They say -- look what they're doing, this is ridiculous. And I ask him, how much do you drive? He says, "How much is it allowed?" That's the point. As long as there's a burn between cops and thieves, we're going to have these kind of regulations that, let's talk professionally, aren't exactly the brightest. I'm not saying we shouldn't have them, but I think this provision is pretty much causing too much a storm in a glass of water, and the effects will be almost nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19850	The time available to the G17 Group of MPs plus 24 minutes. The People's Messenger Zoran Shami came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19851	First, I would like to ask Mrs Milosevic and other MPs not to use the mentality of Serbian citizens as arguments. That's no argument. It is, in fact, offensive to the citizens of Serbia. And it's a good taste in whether you're going to use it, and about the tastes I'm not talking about right now. Secondly, I've never had a detection device and I have no intention of having one. Unlike the sinless vice president, I've paid one ten or 15 times for this 35-year sentence for higher speed. Nothing dramatic, I paid and I don't consider myself, of course, an rude driver. But one of my friends who has that device stops the patrol and says, "You've been driving 96 miles an hour, and 60 is allowed." He's asking-- how do you know that? This one says radar. And he says, my detection device found that it wasn't working, you didn't even measure it. How many times do those who measure (those who work in the police know it all, I don't have to tell them here) record one vehicle to go at some speed, so since their friend or gentleman isn't being punished for some reason, they're waiting for the next vehicle, so they show him what they've recorded. Do you know how many times that happens? Many times. Let me go back to what Mr. Ostojić said, though. Guys, it's not about charging as many fines as possible. The thing is, we get traffic safety in order. That's why I'm pushing for the detection device to be allowed, which is why the DSS is asking for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19852	The remaining time for the DSS parliamentary group is five minutes and 25 seconds, and the time available to the mandated representative is ten minutes. People's MP Dejan Radenkovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19853	I really found it appropriate to react. There's no point in talking about our police force like that. We're all involved in traffic and no one's a saint. Everyone made a few mistakes and was punished, probably for a reason. But we, as traffic agents, as drivers, whenever the police stop us, of course we're not guilty of anything. We didn't drink anything, we didn't drive so fast, we were in a hurry because our wife gave birth... So we're such a people, by profession, let's say, very creative and I don't think it's right to talk about our police. Of course, every grain has a weed in it, but we really shouldn't generalize that the police are used to that and that sort of thing. Of course, it's our excuse for what we did, so then we blame it on the cop, so it's his fault. It's not easy for those people who work in the rain and in the sun. Please, I understand that the opposition should criticise the laws proposed by the government, but let us do some things and watch what we say, because we insult these people. It's not right for them. Here, as far as I'm concerned, I'm a sharp driver, I've paid my fine a lot of times, and I know I'm guilty. But, of course, we're always trying to prove that we're not guilty, we're in a hurry, we're always looking for an explanation or we're kind of asking a cop to forgive us, and sometimes we're nervous. It's just, I'm just appealing that these cops aren't our fault, but, hopefully, if it's up to what kind of driver I am, when we adopt this law, I'm honestly saying, I'm going to pick up those points very soon and I'm going to walk or someone's going to have to drive me. Do not defend something we know is not the cause of many accidents in Serbia, which is a fast ride. Of course we all drive fast and hurry somewhere. We never go on time, but we say we're in a hurry. Especially we politicians use that. We rush, we chase, we're late for a meeting, and then we say, "You know what, we're in a hurry." No, because we all know what's going on, we know that the cause in many accidents, and this speed adjustment, we all know that a more luxurious car has a better brake system than a car that's averaged in Serbia. Of course, there is a greater risk for those people who drive a weaker car and who are average, maybe technically invalid, when it drives faster than the one who has a better and more luxurious car. If we were to get on the subject of whether or not it was, or the detector, or the radar, showed that we were driving faster, it's the same thing as in the mass of cases when someone's drunk, there's a few spills of alcohol in their blood, so he probably says he didn't drink, he doesn't know what it's about, and there's a situation like that. So I'm asking you to really be more constructive and make sure that we don't insult our officers in our discussions any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19854	People's MP, if you think that the Rules of Procedure has been broken by not warning someone, then I ask you to look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because in the previous discussion, I have not heard that any of the MPs have offended the police officers. If I had heard it, I would have reacted, since it's an insult, whether it's about us who are present or a social group. What I warn you about is that you cannot, as a People's MP, make statements in the National Assembly that you are ready to break the law that we are passing. Without a doubt, your intention is neither bad nor dishonest, but I find it inadmissible that any of the MPs, representing here all others, whose name we try to pass laws and solve their problems, says the speaker will quickly collect 18 points. That means you'll break the law. We are obliged to be a role model, not just a lawmaker. I have no doubt that you didn't mean anything by it. There are three other reported: MP Tomislav Nikolic, then Dragan Stevanovic, and Dejan Radenkovic. We'll be working in the afternoon until we've completed the debate under this amendment, because I find it inappropriate to set a break in the middle of this debate. The word has Tomislav Nikolic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19855	Mrs. Komic, if someone calculated how much time was spent on obstruction, and how much on your explanation, you'd be out there egal. You've now hurt the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP did not ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you gave him an explanation as if you had felt called upon by his discussion, in place of us whom you referred to with this discussion. So I ask you to use the right to reply when you recognize yourself, when someone misreads your words, not when someone points out their criticism to another MP. You cannot defend us from what the Messenger of the people has spoken, because it is our duty. I really didn't hear anyone here insult the cops. I'm asking the gentleman not to react as a member of the party running the police department, it doesn't make sense. If you were in opposition, you wouldn't say that at all. Since your party president is the interior minister, you are now protecting police officers from the opposition. That's not good at all, because we respect the police as much as you do. She treats us more harshly than you do, especially when she gets a warrant to beat us face-to-face and to dissipate us with the gatherings we report and that are fully carried out in accordance with the law, but you've never heard any MPs here, especially from the opposition, attack brutal police officers. We know after what he can wait for us at night or in half a day from cops who feel threatened by us. Don't knock on the open door of a proper, honest, honest police officer who wants to defend all Serbian citizens. Everyone wants in this Serbia, and the government and the opposition... Because we can't replace 30,000 cops when we're changing you. We want those people who finish special schools to stay, and those who are on the street and those who are in the vehicles and those who are in the cabinets, to do their job professionally and that they are not interested in anything else. Don't tie the police to the political parties, because it would just be bonding and untieing. As the party takes over the MUP, it binds it and unties it from the one that had previously been taken over. I think you're defending people who are not at all threatened by people they're not threatened by. You're defending the police against criminals. Sign up for the word and tell me which criminals are threatening the police, which we need to deal with, to see that courage, not to say that the police are threatened by the MPs. That's the easiest thing to do, and it seems pretty pointless to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19856	National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19857	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for two things that have been said in the previous discussions of some of my fellow Members here, I consider it appropriate to ask the question again. Based on all this Mr. Novakovic said and which in principle confirmed on one practical case my reasonable suspicion that the law would be objectively questioned in the application process, because the man neither guilty nor obliged has this anti-radar device, not for distraction, but for detection – did he send a message to all those who would apply this law so that they could stop him at any part of the road and punish him with 15,000-30 000 dinars because he owns it and has it in the vehicle? And they cannot answer us ministry representatives as it is possible for the law to ban a particular device and to register and drive vehicles that have such a device in them on the roads of Serbia. You'll come up with a law if you don't do something in this sense and accept an amendment that removes this. On the other hand, you know what this is about? The status of police and police concern cannot be provided with political stories and phrases. I don't want anything bad, but the duty of all of us sitting in this room is to pass an appropriate law that will provide normal status and police to enforce the law, as well as those to which the law applies, or which will be sanctioned by certain provisions of this law. If we don't show willingness and maturity to make a quality law, a law that will be applicable in practice, we can rhetorically love the police as much as we want, but their status and their problem on the ground and in practice we'll make them bigger. We'll be responsible for the fact that he'll get into an awkward situation. I repeat the question - who will be discriminated against, is Mr. Novakovic, who is not guilty of having a device, or a policeman? Or will the police be in an awkward situation to punish Mr. Novakovic for breaking the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19858	The word is from Ambassador Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19859	Mrs. Comic, I'm just calling to get this straight. I didn't say one time I was going to break the law, I just introduced myself as one of the participants who's very often in traffic and of course -- who's driving, he's wrong. We pass this law so that some of our mistakes in driving will be punished. I hope it's just that we didn't get along. I reacted because there was an accusation that when police officers register that they overstepped speed, some circumstances (maybe I'll caricate now) let it go, and then the next person who comes along stays registered that speed, and the one who drove and didn't overstep. I just wanted to get into protective custody, because I don't think that's standing and it's completely unimaginable. So if someone was driving fast - he was driving fast. I don't see any reason why a cop would be guilty, that he's accusing himself of abuse. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19860	It is my duty, on the basis of Article 104, to warn the MP when I hear him saying what I consider inappropriate for the atmosphere of the National Assembly session, and I have explained it. So I warned you that in our performances, we are careful to promise that we will break the law because it is our nature. That's inadmissible, and that's why you've been warned. The word is a folk letter from Zlata Đeric, followed by the MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19861	In view of the President-in-Office's respect, if you have announced a break after the conclusion of the debate on this amendment, we are indeed waiting for everyone to be honest and long, and in order for things to be clearer to us, the Government has to be decided today because we are really coming into a situation of vague application of the law. There are cars that are imported with that machine. So are these people, the owners of those cars, constantly in violation? If we don't deal with mentality, not to do ethnopsychology, the law is the law, and we here have to deal with legislation. So we need to know. Those of us who might be planning to buy a car, not guilty or indemnity, will be in our board and that machine, so we need to know if we're in violation all the time. Whether we're safe drivers or not, we'll be punished more than unconscious or violent drivers because we simply own it. That has to be discussed today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19862	The word was requested by Ambassador Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19863	Just for last, let's get back to the subject. The police have an absolute lead, and perhaps the only role in controlling this law, in traffic security and law enforcement. There's nothing disputed about that. I have a problem with the role of police in other areas -- training, etc., that's what we've been talking about. This is about traffic control. The police are legally controlling drivers if they're breaking regulations. Why is it a problem for drivers to control the police? No problem at all. Not to mention other things, simply, this allows the driver to control the police to the extent that they measure their speed. That's all. Why is it someone's problem if there's no manipulation, fraud, etc.? They just control us and we control them. It's so natural that car manufacturers install these devices into vehicles in factories. I really don't understand how this happened when everyone at the committee's session voted yes. So, Mr. Mrkonjic, I hope you don't say here that you don't commit and that you won't commit, because you can get a sentence even though you are not an MP and are not behind Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic but Gordana Comic, be careful, but I would like you to plead on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19864	No one in the course of the National Assembly session can represent the view that the law, or law, should be respected. This applies to all MPs, as well as ministers. The minister asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19865	So, as far as this member is concerned, he's going to stay who he is. People who have such cars on technical examinations will have to shut it down. Do I make myself clear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19866	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Before I set a break, on the basis of Article 85(5), I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 1800 hours today, and by discussing a point that is on the agenda at that time. Now I'm setting a break that will last from 2:30 to 15:30. The afternoon session begins with a discussion in particular on Article 30th amendment submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19867	Good afternoon, it's half four and two minutes. Out of respect for those present, we begin today's afternoon session where we stopped in the morning by discussing the amendment of MP Boris Aleksic to Article 30. The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19868	Mr. Chairman, I'd just like to ask if the ministry's representatives are going to return to the O.R. or if we're going to continue in some inappropriate manner this afternoon? We submitted, i.e. my colleague Boris Aleksic submitted an amendment to Article 30 of the proposed law because we really felt that the proposed solution in the text of the law was unarranged. I'll use some of my party's time to point out a few more irregularities when it comes to criminal policy in this law, but before I explain this amendment briefly. Namely, Article 30, paragraph 3, reads: "The driver in Article 1 of this Article is obliged to warn passengers of mandatory use of the safety belt". It's a very abstract finding in a criminal sense. What does that mean? "The driver is obliged to warn passengers of the mandatory use of the safety belt," and then in Article 334 (seems) of the proposed law for violation of Article 3 of this article, you provide for the fine of three thousand dinars, and if an accident occurs, the penalty would be between five and 15 thousand dinars in that sense. Now I ask myself a question and I ask you a question, since the government's representative is still missing – how will it be determined whether the driver has warned passengers of mandatory use of the safety belt? In this context, we felt that something more precise and concrete should be proposed here. Our proposal may be rigid, but it seems to me that, by accepting this amendment, it would fully and ultimately define the responsibility of both the driver and his companions, those with him in the vehicle. On the other hand, it seems to me that just now you, Mr. Novakovic, have said that this proposed law really requires us to seek to create obligations, but also responsibility for all those involved in the security, i.e. raising the level of traffic safety on the roads in Serbia. I felt that all of this would happen exactly the way we suggested, that Article 3 reads: “The driver of Article 1 of this Article must not drive by vehicle on the road unless passengers use the safety belt in the way provided for by the manufacturer. ” Indeed, there would be no dilemma about whether someone committed a crime, whether he fulfilled his obligations in the spirit of this law, and also those who would eventually come into a situation to determine the offence and predict the punishment would have a clear and clear situation. Now, on this amendment, I will take the opportunity to comment on a few more details regarding fines and violations. I think they're absolutely in the spirit of our finding, too, that certain norms of this law are provided for really superficially, or that they're unarranged. To be clear, we are not against the law providing for financial and other penalties, the law is foreseen for unconscious drivers and I don't think anyone is here to give the right and possibility to unconscious drivers to create and create a picture of the conditions and security of traffic in Serbia. The fine of three thousand dinars, i.e. if an accident is caused by a fine of five to 15 thousand dinars, the law provides for listening to loud music while driving, riding a bicycle in the middle of the road, taking two or more parking places when parking, driving a day without the lights on, unreadable plates, holding headphones on both ears when crossing August, walking after August, crossing August outside the pedestrian crossing if the crossing is closer than 100 meters. Now I'd just like to comment on two things that have been defined here and made one parallel. You, in that same criminal diapazon, put listening to loud music while driving, where the question is, is it really possible to objectively prove that someone is listening to music loudly and how loudly or is it someone's individual attitude to define it, or maybe in some sublegal act we're going to predict decibels, i.e. which is the range of decibels that can move the volume of music that drivers listen to. Then, to be honest, you put what's unreasonable in the same diapazon bike ride in the middle of the road and unreadable plates. I would, for example, observe these two categories from aspects of the consequences that can produce these violations of traffic participants. Does the same burden have consequences that produce an unreadable plate or the fact that someone unconscious will ride a bike in the middle of the road? Such violations, unfortunately, can sometimes have tragic outcomes and put them in the same plane with violations like unreadable plates is really irresponsible. Next, you have fines of 5,000 dinars, and if you cause accidents, the fines are between 6,000 and 18,000 dinars. Then in that same basket, I'll be free to say, you've put no light vest, no driving around the surface that's not meant for it or not to tie the belt. Now we're going back to what we just said, whether they're really going to be able to compare the consequences of non-locking or not owning a light vest. These are some things that we have noticed and we wanted the legislator to point out and which are absolutely in the spirit of our finding that the law did not work well enough and that perhaps in that spirit you were obliged to accept an even greater number of amendments and thus try to correct the law. We also believe that Article 1 of this law is pointless, and if you accept an amendment from the Members to delete Article 3. Therefore, we ask that you reconsider your decision, i.e. accept the amendment my colleague Boris Aleksic has proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19869	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Ostojic submitted the amendment, with a correction to Article 31, with a proposal to add a new member of 31a after article 31a. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19870	This member is talking about how to tie up in a car, especially the way children are tied up. I think there's two problems here. First, this is how it was formulated for a child up to three years of age: "A child up to three years of age is transported in a safety seat, i.e. basket, except in vehicles for public passenger transport". All right - except for vehicles for public passenger transport, however this formulation implicitly leads to the fact that it is legally transmitted or driven by a baby up to three years old, a child up to three years in a laundry basket. It says, in the basket. It doesn't say it has to be tied up in that special seat. Honestly, I think my formulation is better: "When a child under the age of three is transported in a passenger vehicle, it must be in a homologous child's safety basket or a homologous seat for safe transport of children adjusted for that child's age." You know, Mr. Grouchy, that almost 200 people die or die a year for non-binding. That's why we were angry when, as a security factor, you said you weren't bonding. This, no matter how close the minister will determine how children are transported, must be in law, must be a legal obligation. We have another problem, which you haven't solved at all by this law, the problem of children between three and 12 years of age. We have a third problem. If I understand correctly, you have accepted the amendment of the People's MP Moma Colakovic regarding the binding of persons less than 150 centimeters. It's a special way of tying people less than 150 centimeters. If you wipe out that special way, believe me, I hope it doesn't happen, they're putting a low person at risk in some accident belt, let's not say he cuts off his head, but he's got a lot more serious consequences than the way it's arranged in Europe. This article, as you have formulated it, is against the European Directive, believe me. And in some other cases, you are happy to appeal to the European Directive. I think it has to be defined, that's the purpose of my amendment, and the transport of children between three and 12 years of age, and that this is clearly formulate for children up to three years of age. In this article of yours, you say -- the basket, it doesn't even say it has to be tied to that child for up to three years. This is a technical matter, and I don't see anything that could affect the fame of the writer. Accept this amendment, it's about children, it's about security, it doesn't get in the way of police rights, it just gets in the way of security, and it's a lot closer to what's in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19871	Thank you. You've used the LDP time, and as an authorised representative, you've got 13 and a half minutes left. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Shami together submitted the 31st amendment. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Transport and Communications Committee, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have submitted an amendment to Article 33. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Shami. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19872	Thank you. We have proposed, in order to correct the text, two amendments in Article 33. This first, that instead of the verb "power" to use the verb "foam", was actually accepted because it was an amendment of the Committee, which the Committee proposed and it was accepted. But we asked for the words "out of the vehicle" to be deleted in Section 2. It's about when transparency is bad, then the driver needs to get instructions from another person, for example when moving backwards, going on a trip, etc. There the legislator somehow concluded that this person giving instructions must necessarily be out of the vehicle. That, however, is true in the case of passenger vehicles, but in the case of cargo vehicles, it doesn't have to be true. That face can be found on the truck and it has a great view. Hence, it is in the vehicle, or on the vehicle, so that it can finish the job. I don't see why the driver should be punished if he doesn't. This was an objection by the DSS, i.e. this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19873	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Shami. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Shami. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milan Urosevic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19874	I will spend my time because the amendment of Milan Urosevic is better than mine. And I have submitted an amendment to Article 41. It's a violent drive. What's a violent ride? It is clear from the government's explanation that they do not accept the Urosevic amendment that they do not want a precise definition. Because it says that the government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the intensity of those who wrote the law was to allow a discretionary right to a judge for violations that in all situations when a driver exhibits an act that is contrary to traffic rules, etc. And I think it's the law to define clearly what a violent ride is. There is a wording in the law on harsh opposites, etc. (unclear, "a rubber" member; apparently the one who wrote it at another time, when "a rubber" members were at the price), and then you say – under violent driving is considered... So this "tiny," so plus this specifically. Both I and Urošević suggest that it be only concrete, and nothing rubber, that a judge or a policeman determines when a driver passes through red light two or more times if between two consecutive passages it has not been more than 10 minutes, you suggest, and when the driver crosses the column of the vehicle where he crosses or moves along an uninterrupted long line that separates August lanes in directions. Urošević and I, Urošević, more detailed than I am, suggests only what is considered a violent driving, because he says that violent driving is the behavior of a motor vehicle driver which is in harsh contrast with traffic rules, i.e. when the driver does not show consideration for the safety of other traffic participants, especially when and only now – when passing through red light, when driving 50 km more than is allowed in the city, when driving more than 70 km more than allowed outside the city, which I have suggested, he also suggests that when going through the red light twice within 24 hours, etc. (there are two or three other items). This is a violent drive, and this is supposed to be a violent drive, just this and nothing else. It's quite enough to be a violent ride, not to give the judge and the police discretionary authority to appreciate how it was driven by a driver in harsh contrast to traffic rules. Because, objectively, it's something rough for me, for Mr. Shami, maybe less rough. You can make this more specific, there will be fewer misunderstandings, if you want fewer misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19875	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic and Zoran Shami jointly submitted to the 41st Amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19876	We know what this is about. Right away, the DSS supports the introduction of the term "violent driving". We are aware that violent driving on our streets and roads is available and we are aware of how dangerous it is for all traffickers. So we generally support the idea that in some way special penalties are imposed for violent driving, but all that Mr. Ostojić said is actually still standing. That article as it's written in the law is not good. It is subject to some vague criteria of what is and what is not a violent driving. However, it cites some explicit situations, but apparently it intends to lead to other situations that are unknown. They were called "a rubber situation" plastic by Mr. Ostojić, and that's a pretty good term. We have been on the trail and what Mr. Urosevic has offered, even sharpening what is written in the law, so not two passages through the red light within ten minutes, but within 24 hours. That means someone has a obsession with going through the red light. Then, crossing the column on a full line, speeds greater than 50 and 70 kilometers in place and out of place, that's all right. Also, for us, violent driving is under the biggest alcohol category you have, over two alcohol spills in your blood. We also have to take it under a violent ride.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19877	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Chikiriz picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19878	First of all, I want to tell Mr. Shami that in time I saw all the amendments and in the debate, I mentioned in principle that everything that is foreseen, these two cases of violent driving, that there must be an expansion of the circle of circumstances that we consider to be falling under violent driving. In the daily jargon, the people gave many negative qualifications to people who drive at a rate of more than 50 km per hour in a populated place. It's usually said of such people: savage, maniac, murderer, arrogant man. Why? Because someone who drives at a rate twice as high as the allowed speed in a populated place, where children and protected categories of population, many pedestrians, many assets, etc., shows special indifference. The same can be said of those who drive at an open road at a speed greater than 70 kilometers per hour because they are at least allowed speeds of 60 kilometers per hour. What does it mean when someone on the highway drives 190 kilometers per hour, speed 120 is allowed, and 300 kilometers takes off? As for alcoholism, I think it's important to know that the degree of alcohol consumption of two grampromisms of alcohol in the blood means, that's what research has shown, that these are the most dangerous drivers, the most common perpetrators of car accidents, that they are fast, arrogant and energetic in driving, that their movements are rough, insecure, followed by failures, that they have no preserved orientation towards personalities, that alcoholism is very clear and vulnerable to the environment, that their functions have been heard, especially the sense of vision and hearing, weakened. He doesn't see well, he doesn't hear well, he's intruding to the environment, he's drunk, and we're not intruding him under this category. I repeat, these are the most dangerous drivers and the most common perpetrators of car accidents, and they should fall under the termology of violent behavior for their behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19879	The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19880	Dear Mr. Chairman, the honourable representatives of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when we received these amendments, I carefully studied this whole law and this amendment, when it came to the Traffic Safety Act, and I did little to consult with people who are directly in a position to regulate traffic traffic traffic with traffic police officers and I contacted traffic police officers to ask how they would view the implementation of this law in practice. Speaking of violent driving, it is true that there is plenty of room for subjective assessment of what a violent drive is, but if any of the MPs spent just one day with traffickers working in so-called. Interceptors on the highway, which, in addition to recording the speed of the vehicle's movement, also have a full recording of the traffic violation, would see all the people in Serbia what all people in Serbia can think of while driving a car. It's impossible, there's no law to describe and put into law. There must be a classification of that not only of a felony but of a crime, not of a violent driving, but of a violent involvement in traffic. The fact that these people have their cameras recorded, I would broadcast to children at school as an educational example of what should not be done in traffic. To show those footage that has cameras that regulate traffic at the intersection, say on the highway where trucks are involved on the loop of the highway at Novi Sad, in the opposite lane, the highwayway, which you have the opportunity to see on the YouTube site, is a frightening example of traffic participants' behaviour. Simply, there is no possibility that everything people in Serbia can think of when it comes to breaking the rules, you put in one law and you have to use this name. And I recommend that all MPs, whoever has the time, talk to at least the people driving the interceptor, especially the colleagues I see on the highway every morning when I come to the meetings of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19881	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic, submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Miss Alexandra Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19882	On behalf of the NS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment. In Article 41. The traffic safety legislation on roads is referred to as a violent driving and, among other things, in point 2 of point 2) is referred to as an action considered violent driving' when the driver passes the column of the vehicle in which he crosses or moves along an uninterrupted long line that separates the August lanes in the direction of movement. This amendment essentially accepts the legislator's position, but instead of the bill's formulation, the proposed formulation in the amendment would be much clearer and more concrete. Article 41(2) of the Road Safety Act, by accepting this amendment, would read – when the driver completes a cross-section of the vehicle, where he crosses his vehicle through an uninterrupted long line, which separates August lanes in the direction of movement, and moves with that August lane exclusively designed for the movement of the vehicle from the opposite direction. The intention and attitude are the same, but this legal text is simpler, clearer and more precise. The addition of points 3 and 4 extends the violent driving of cases that constitute a drastic violation of traffic regulations that cause extremely serious consequences, as demonstrated by previous practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19883	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19884	Dear Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and representatives of the ministries, the honourable MPs, our PUPS parliamentary group supported the law in general and we did not get new elements to say it now. With regard to the amendments that we have submitted, and we have submitted several amendments, I am pleased that you have recognised in our amendments a number of suggestions and suggestions that you have accepted, so on behalf of the parliamentary group, I am grateful for that. Regarding this amendment, he is close to the amendments of fellow Members from other parliamentary groups, and we think it would be good to look a little further at the violent driving or behavior and accept some of these amendments. Also, I recognize a better text from Mr. Urosevic than mine. In the further debate on the amendments we have submitted, we will not report further, since I have expressed my satisfaction that our amendments have been accepted by content and quality. In voting day, our parliamentary group will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19885	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Miss Alexandra Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19886	Article 42. The road safety law refers to the speed of traffic, and paragraph 1 states that the driver is obliged to adapt the vehicle's speed to the characteristics and condition of the road, visibility, transparency, atmospheric opportunities, vehicle and cargo status, traffic density and other traffic conditions, so that the vehicle can slowly stop at any obstacle which, under the circumstances, he may see or have reason to predict, i.e. to manage the vehicle in a way that does not endanger traffic safety. The amendment only adds in this attitude that, apart from stopping at every obstacle, there is also a avoidance of obstacles. In this way, this attitude becomes more complete and comprehensive with regard to actions that are possible in certain traffic situations, as this also provides for the possibility of avoiding obstacles, which strengthens the driver’s described duty in adapting the speed of movement of the vehicle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19887	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19888	Thank you, Chairman. We asked to fix the text in the next sense. It says here that the driver is obliged to adjust the speed of the vehicle's movement to the characteristics and condition of the road, etc., to what else is needed, which is not controversial. We've asked that the "features" be erased because, frankly, I don't know what "path trait" means. I guess if the path is charming, beautiful, or not beautiful, or ugly... The condition of the road is enough category for something like that. Also, in that same attitude, where you say "there's a reason to predict" that you have to drive at a lower speed, there's nothing a driver can predict a barrier or anything else, is not a fortune teller. We asked for the words "or there's a reason to predict" to change the words "there's a reason to expect." That the sentence means – so that the vehicle can slowly stop at any obstacle that under the given circumstances it can see, that is, there is reason to expect. What does it mean to predict? That doesn't mean anything. I can't predict that on the road reserved for motor vehicles a hole of half a metre is being dug and my wheel is going to fall off. I can't predict that. Then we should all drive 20 miles an hour all the time, and everything's fine. One more, not a very technical change. In the third attitude, the word "i" is replaced by "i" or "i." It says here, "All the provisions of this law relating to rapidity are applied to the current measured speed and the mean (average) speed." As it's been formulated, you always have to measure each other. You can measure both, but you can measure either one or the other. Especially on the highway you can measure the average speed, given the time when the driver typed the card and when he got off the highway. Those are our remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19889	The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19890	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, this is one of the members where in a very concrete way the government sees through this law the responsibility of traffic participants. In addition to Article 3, Article 42 most clearly demonstrates that the driver is solely responsible in one traffic situation. People who have dealt with such cases in practice, where it is said that the driver is obliged to adapt the speed of movement to the characteristics and condition of the journey and that he is obliged to stop the vehicle from any obstacle that under the given circumstances he can see or have reason to predict – in any such situation that occurred in practice, the driver was responsible. Be careful now what reason the Government gives us why this amendment refuses – the government does not accept this amendment because expectations are subjective to the driver's experience, and the provision of this bill concerns objective circumstances. I guarantee you that in a situation where one case occurred, to determine objective circumstances, the judge will judge according to his subjective experience whether the driver could have predicted obstacles on the road. This is in some way introducing the objective responsibility of the driver into our legal system. He is obliged to predict the impossible situation on the way, and it is easiest then for the judge to judge on the basis of his subjective experience and appreciate whether he had the opportunity to predict an objective circumstance. This is a very dangerous provision, which exclusively puts the driver responsible for the traffic situation, where the judge, whether infraction or in regular courts, does not engage in other factors that have potentially affected the traffic situation. He's judging and assessing whether the driver could have predicted it. If the judge says, "I think you could have predicted," it's his fault. I ask you to accept this amendment, not to put objective responsibility into our system, because on this basis there is no need to prove anything. It's enough that based on the record, the insight the police are doing, the judge can only assess as soon as he sees the driver that he's had the opportunity to predict any possible obstacle that could appear on the road and solve the case. This proves that this law did not go any further than the logic that existed in the current law. Accept amendments to Articles 3 and 42 and get the driver out of a situation where he can be objectively responsible for something he can't influence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19891	The word has an MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19892	On behalf of SPO MPs, in the principle debate, I also asked that the logic of this law be changed, and I think that if we go down the street, or through a boulevard in front of the National Assembly, the driver cannot predict the behavior of 300 traffic participants who are either in motor vehicles or are pedestrians. It's a completely different situation, of course, if the driver says he saw it and could have predicted that it would be a moving obstacle, let's assume it's a pedestrian, to set foot in August, and besides, he's still driving. Then it's the driver's fault. But if all the objective indicators in the court and subjective testimony of drivers and witnesses indicate that the driver could not predict anything, then there is room left with such a provision that the driver is always to blame. I'll only mention one case, very interesting, from court practice. In criminal proceedings, the bus driver was released, and in the damages charge he was convicted because the logic of the criminal court was that he couldn't predict and that he had to provide for it. In addition to August, there was a pedestrian who had paranoid schizophrenia and a high degree of alcoholism. He literally chased cars along the road, ran into a bus that crossed the other side of August, hit a bus, and all the passengers said the driver was running away from that pedestrian. Otherwise, paranoid schizophrenia is characterized by a number of disorders, let's just say the patient tends to be sent from the Most High to save the world, sees invisible forces, etc. In the same case, the logic of a criminal and litigation court was different, because the criminal judge said - he could not predict and expect, and the litigious opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19893	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the promoter should break up with this practice, that exclusive responsibility for car accidents is borne by motor vehicle drivers. I fully understand that there is a danger that someone will abuse it if it stops, but we must be aware that all the participants in the traffic are responsible – both pedestrians and cyclists and all those involved in the traffic. There is a practice that the driver is responsible for the reason he drives a motor vehicle that can cause serious physical harm or take life. Now, gentlemen, I ask you - what if the driver endangers his life and the safety of his passengers to avoid contact with someone who is not responsible enough in traffic? What if we put other traffic users at risk by doing our own thing? Such a driver will certainly be convicted, although it maximumly adjusted the speed of movement of the vehicle to conditions of traffic, times etc. Life tells us other stories. And, gentlemen, you know, whenever there are serious bodily injuries or God forbid death, two families are punished. In such situations, we should not destroy one completely, if the other had to pay so much because of the irresponsibility of its member.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19895	Thank you. Tell me, please, did you use your time as an authorised representative, or from a parliamentary group? (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: MPs' group. ) Thank you very much. Does anyone else, according to this amendment, want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. A representative of the proposings and of the Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19896	Here, around the previous amendment, we received one contribution to language practice or interpretation of Serbian language -- it is predicted objectively, and expected subjectively. But let's go to this amendment. "On the way to the village, the driver must not drive a vehicle at a speed of more than 50 km per hour, or at a speed greater than the speed allowed by a traffic sign for the entire village and its part." So, when there is no sign, the law says in Belgrade, which allows more, it must not be more than 50km in Belgrade. I think it should be the other way around, just because of what we talked about when it was the definition of a inhabited place. That's why I'm introducing a built area here, because one is a settlement or a populated place, and the other is a built area. When an area is built, it makes sense 50 km, but I think it's the point of this member of the law that it's in fact again to the authorities that control traffic discreetly the right to punish drivers where they shouldn't. So it's better to limit only in the built area, because it's possible for children to come out, that there are pedestrians, etc., and within the settlement, what's not built, there's also a speed that's appropriate to that path and conditions of the road.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19897	Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19898	Thank you. We asked for all other words to be deleted in that attitude after 50 km per hour and for attitude 2, "and up to 80 km per hour" to be replaced by the words "more than 50 km per hour". In other words, we leave one broad possibility. Why in a populated place, if the conditions of the road allow it, and let's say it's part of some road for motor vehicles or highways, the speed couldn't go up to 100 kilometers per hour? Of course, with an appraisal. Or 70 or 60, so at a speed greater than 50 kilometers an hour. Some general bans usually exist - over 100 km can't be made on the road for motor vehicles, motorcycles, over 120 can't be on the highway - it's okay, it's known, and this, gives one freedom and an opportunity to solve it this way. I think our formulation is cleaner and, let me say, more practical. However, we've been thinking about something else here, and I'd just like to mention it, as an idea. You know, in some cities and some places local authorities like to limit speed to very little, 30 or 40 km an hour. That, in some ways, would also be good to regulate the law, if it wasn't for the speed to be limited just like that. But then, about that, some other time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19899	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Transport and Communications Committee has withdrawn the amendment to Article 44. National MP Zoran Ostojic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19900	It has to do with the previous, difference between the settlement and the settlement of the built area, so that there is no discretionary right to try the authorities of the traffic police to charge the fine from the settlement table to the settlement table, calling for the current practice and this law. So, you suggest it writes – on the way out of the village the driver must not drive by car at a speed greater than 120 km per hour on the highway, 100 km per hour on the highway, 80 km per hour on other roads and on the way out of the village the driver must not move at a speed greater than the traffic sign allowed. I suggest that it reads this way: "On the way out of the built area the driver must not drive at a speed greater than: 120 km/h on the highway, 100 km/h on the highway, 80 km/h on the other roads. On the way out of the built area, the driver must not drive a vehicle at a speed greater than the speed allowed by a traffic sign.' That's not controversial. It's only what's a settlement and what's a building place. You want to turn everything into a settlement, and I want to define that the settlement can be driven faster than what is prescribed by this law. I hope you're not wasting my time as an authorised representative. I've wasted some time fast, and I'm not a mathematician like Shami. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19901	No one's denying you the right to the time you have left. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Miljan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19902	Dear Presidency, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to express my satisfaction that you have accepted two out of four of my amendments. The third is not accepted, and that's fine, because your arguments are better and stronger than what I have stated in the light of my amendment. The fourth is also not accepted, but I cannot agree with you for the following reasons. I want to read my amendment, my argument, and then your explanation, which is why the amendment is not accepted. The amendment reads as follows: "Article 44(1), point 1), the number '120' is replaced by '130', while the number '80' is replaced by '90' in point 3. My argument is: 'Amendman needs to be adopted in order to comply with the positive rules and practices in our country, as well as to comply with the practice of EU Member States. Also, technological progress and technical characteristics of traffic vehicles allow for an increase in the speed allowed without jeopardising traffic safety'. The amendment is not accepted with the explanation: ''The Government does not accept this amendment because all the elements of the existing roads are designed for accounting speeds corresponding to the norms of a specific Article 46. Traffic safety laws on roads for maximum speeds on highways, roads reserved for motor vehicles and on other roads. By increasing the normability of the highest permitted speeds on existing roads, it would greatly reduce traffic safety.' This morning, in an informal conversation with Mr. Todorovic, I heard that this amendment was not accepted because experts from various bodies, state institutions gave their opinion. However, I have to explain that this is about maximum speed, not average speed. There is a limit on the highway, between Belgrade and Nis at some places 100km per hour is allowed. Those are the conditions on the way and no one wants to change that. But there are also parts of the road where it's quite safe to drive up to 130, to make it maximum speed. I don't understand what this means. In Croatia, for example, there is a speed of 130 km per hour on highways. Did they make a new highway or did they let it on the old one? They've renovated the highway. It is the highway of Belgrade-Zagreb, which has been renovated. I wonder if, if this is interpreted, we will never renovate our highway, bring it to a higher level, or Mr. Mrkonjic and Mrs. Kalanovic, in fact, are tasked with making a new highway through Serbia to have the speeds that have long been accepted in EU countries? I really can't understand an answer like this for the next reason. You're from the Department of the Interior, you're the head of the Department of Traffic Police, you need to know that the limit is 120 kilometers an hour, but people are already driving 10, it means 130, and it's tolerated. I'm not looking for anything abnormal here, I'm asking for equalization of what practice is. Don't punish people. The traffic police don't really serve to write fines, but it's preventive, for traffic safety. I'm just asking us to legalize what practice is and what definitely doesn't give bad results. Because the largest number of drivers that drive our highway where they're tolerated that 10 km an hour over that 120 always gets where they're going. I hope that's clear. You know that, and you know it even better at what speed your official drivers are driving on the highway, and thank God every time we and you get where we're going. It means that the technical characteristics of the Belgrade highway – Nis and this part that exists according to Subotica allow it to drive in certain places over 120 km per hour. If we know at what speed official cars pass with their rotational lights, then it is clear that technical characteristics allow at least 10 km per hour to be legalized which is over 120. Furthermore, it says here, to a large extent, traffic security would be reduced. I don't want to comment anymore, I think that's enough of what I've already said, I'm just asking if the experts who gave this explanation might have stopped in some reality that was 20 years ago. That highway is designed so, it has a speed of 120 km per hour for a very long time, but I ask you all to remember together that it was allowed speed for "fitch", for "tristace", for cars that were driving until I was even born. Please, what's the stop route if it goes 120 km per hour? And I'm not going to give an example of a better car than "punta" that is now being produced in Kragujevac. What's the stop route of "punta" if it goes 80 miles an hour? I'm also willing to bet and stop from what I'm saying, that today's stopway of "punta" must be shorter from 130 an hour than "fice," which went 120 miles an hour, or "triest." That's perfectly logical and that's how it is. I've been checking and talking to people who do that. And I'm glad to see your approvals. Really, I think we're all clear. Both the Ministry of the Interior and the traffic police and the MPs, we are all in the service of our citizens. Let's not because they drive the way they've been driving for years and no one's been punishing them now with interceptors to catch them, to film them, to write them tickets, to collect their negative points. People will lose their license because of what has been a practice in Serbia for years and it is absolutely safe and can be legitimate. You know there's a part of the highway in Germany where speed is not limited at all. In Austria, there is a limit, but there is a tolerance for overcoming that restriction. In Croatia, it is 130 km per hour, and I know from experience that 150 is tolerated without paying the fine. Please, if someone travels several thousand miles and wants to go somewhere south, if we slow him down here and bring him down from 150 to 120 kilometers an hour and we write him fines for 130 (you know that today trucks also drive 110-120 and are quite safe on the highway), you want to drive them out and then go across Romania and Bulgaria to Turkey? Why do we lose all that? Why am I saying this? Because I heard the argument today because of the regional roads, because of the roads reserved for motor vehicles, where I suggested and stand behind that the speed allowed could be higher, from 80 to 90. Why do I say that? The arguments are identical to the maltenes. That's how much you drive, that's maximum speed. That's right. On regional roads the maximum speed is currently 80, but on many parts of that road there is a limit to 50, to 60, to 40, everything depends on the conditions, on the relief itself, from the terrain itself and the condition of the road. I'm not asking to be anywhere for 80 miles an hour, but I'm looking for a place where 80 can be 90, because on those roads there are absolutely safe directions, which have been renovated in recent years. In central Serbia and Vojvodina, there are roads that are renovated and currently in better shape than many parts of the highway, where 120 is now allowed. Let's practice, in fact, introduce ourselves into our law. I'm not looking for anything else here. If there is 120 left on the highway, and when people have to reduce their speed to 120km per hour as soon as they get in from Croatia, if we lose that toll money, from all those tows, from all those people passing through Serbia, how are we going to secure these regional roads? I heard the argument today -- it's expensive, if we let 90 go, then we have to put the bumpers and the semi-defines on. I hope neither of you and we are meant for Serbia to have ways like this. We have to put that on even if there's a 30-mile-an-hour limit. Those roads need to be safer. That's the goal of each of us, to have normal travel infrastructure. Let's make this money. It doesn't cost us anything to run 130 on the highway, nothing costs 90 on the regional roads, because we're sure to make money to make our roads better and safer, even those regional roads. I'd like one of the gentlemen of the Home Office to respect these facts. I'm not asking anyone to take responsibility for this kind of shrub and I really don't think it makes any sense. They're your associates, I can understand that, but I can't understand that it turns out that we don't want to accept reality here, because there's nothing here that doesn't exist. Here we are looking for the legalization of something that gives good results and which is our daily life. Anyone who travels every day, as counterpart Milivojevic from DS said earlier, knows very well what I'm talking about, and I know very well that a large number of MPs travel and are constantly on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19903	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Ostojic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 45a be added after article 45a. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19904	There, Mr. Mrkonjic, the previous discussion best says why this should have been a law for which the Ministry of Transport is responsible, not the Ministry of the Interior. Who determines what speed is allowed? I guess traffic engineers before the police. But unfortunately, we're where we are. What did I want by adding this member? This is a member talking about speed, exactly what his colleague was talking about. You, the police, stay at 120. Maybe if the law had stayed in the Department of Traffic, it would have been 130. Since this is about speed, I suggested a precise definition when the driver is obliged to drive at a speed less than prescribed. You refuse me this amendment, you say - it's regulated by Article 42. In Article 42, I remind you, the prediction is objective. And when they say "expectation," you say -- it can't, it's subjective. So this article 42 is a rubber member, and so is that 3, which you won't accept mutual responsibility. Please, this is exactly where I define when a driver has to drive at less speed than allowed. If he wasn't driving less than allowed, and some of this happened, he's guilty. But if he was driving at less speed and respected it, then he wasn't guilty. No road trait, no rubber members, no subjective assessment of the police or judges for violations, which will again be the driver's fault. Because the driver will be guilty and if he drives at less speed than allowed, and there's an accident. I just want to save him a little bit of responsibility, only in that segment – I define when he has to drive less. And according to your article 42, he always has to drive less. Whenever something happened and he was driving according to the law, he respected regulations, he respected speed, but still something happened, it was his fault – because predicting was an objective thing, and he obviously wasn't able to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19905	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 55th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19906	This is also a very important amendment. However, half of the amendment was submitted by Mr Ostojic, so he will defend for half. Here's what we suggested. This member deals with when a driver can't cross over. In paragraph 1, it shall not exceed the column of the vehicle. I remind you that the vehicle column must consist of at least three vehicles between which there is no distance. I ask the question – why can't a driver (of course, where it's allowed in the first place, where all the other conditions are met, it means) to precede the column of the vehicle? Goes forward tractor or some little slower truck, behind it another two trucks, you have the right path, visibility good, everything is clean, broken line - why can't it cross the column of the vehicle? What's he gonna do? To drive 25 kilometers an hour and build a mile a column, where someone's gonna be nervous and they're gonna start running when they can't, and how can they not? I don't understand why it's imperative to prohibit the overrun of the vehicle column. It has nothing to do with the brain. The second thing, we asked for point 2), which reads: “If the driver behind him began to run or touring, ” it also said: “if the driver who was moving right behind him began to run or go. ” So, if he's starting to beat me up, then I can't beat him. But if the 12th driver began to cross the 11th column, what does that have to do with my impediment? Both are the things we need to resolve. We're not all drivers, I know one MP who's not a driver, but most of us are here. I've been driving 35 years and I know what happens every minute. Why can't I beat three vehicles in a row, in a column, if visibility is good, if I see it, if it's allowed to flow – I don't understand it. So that was our amendment, and I assume this preceding column will be explained by Mr. Ostojic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19907	Thank you. The LDP has no time left, only the authorised representative has nine and a half minutes. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19908	I think the formulations in this article are deliberately so vague. What's the issue, let's say, in their amendment that it doesn't say "if the driver who's moving behind him started running or going around" that only adds "direct behind him" and not "three kilometers behind him"? This reduces police discretion to say you broke the law, no matter what it is three kilometers. It's the same with the crossover. We've suggested to you, I think, in informal contacts to put, say, if the vehicle moves 25 kilometers that it can flow, etc., and on a full line, and you didn't accept any of it. Now you're introducing a column here as an absolute god-given way to "meet the norm" when the time comes or when the bosses say so. Understand, Serbia is a agricultural country and has many slow vehicles, columns are being made; it is a hilly and mountainous country, there are trucks going slowly, a column is being created. It's just that you kind of... I wouldn't be surprised if there was a situation I saw in Montenegro tomorrow, and I'm judging a cop sitting in a tractor with a radar, hidden, with a peasant cap, waiting for the tractor to build a column and then "set the standard." I wouldn't be surprised to see a police tractor, unmarked, and a policeman who will deliberately build a column so they can meet their standard first. Believe me, I've seen this in Montenegro and I don't think it's a contribution to the tourism development of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19909	Thank you. We hope the police will get more modern means, not to return to tractors with trailers, and we want it as soon as possible. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Transport and Connection Committee is, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment, with correction, to Article 55. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Unfortunately, the proposing representative and the Legislative Committee have not declared themselves correcting the amendments, and we will also vote on this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment, the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic, submitted. The Government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 62nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic and MPs Zoran Shami and Zoran Nikolic together. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19910	This is very interesting. Watch what this amendment applies to. The amendment refers to a claim in the law, which says this: "The provisions of this law on stopping and parking do not apply to police officers in the performance of their official duties... ''The Legislative Committee considers this to be out of line with our system. What does that mean, our system is a police system? I thought this was some kind of group for European Serbia. But no, she's for police Serbia, if she thinks this provision is not in accordance with our legislative system. Please, why would a police officer in his duties be different from a doctor who performs his duty so that he parked a vehicle where he can't, or from someone else who performs his official duty? What kind of privilege are cops supposed to have? To be clear, when criminals are being chased, then some other rules apply, not traffic safety rules. You're explicitly seeking the privilege of stopping where you're coming from. Well, you can't do that. This shows the true face of this law, and the position of the Legislative Committee shows the true face of the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19911	The word is, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Free Maras, provided he's in the O.R. and registers in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19912	Dear Vice President, you can see that I'm in the O.R., only the card remains in the place where I used to sit. I let your colleague, the vice president sit there. Article 104, dignity of the Assembly, but I must say why. I've been saying it a few times. So it can be done or done to compromise the dignity of the congregation. This reasoning that we have been given really affects the dignity of this congregation. No law that has come to the assembly procedure has survived such meaningful and good amendments as this law, and such an explanation tells us about you, who keep telling us that you want to go to the EU, and you do not show in part that you do not know European legislation. Police everywhere in Europe receive more severe penalties for traffic offences than citizens, and you allow here... Here, I see that Minister Mrkonjic air-conditioned, and that is quite consistent with what Mr Ostojic said -- if he had remained in his ministry, it would have been better quality. I ask you from the government that when you send such arguments, you also take care of the dignity of the Assembly. And that's what Professor Fleischman said. Shami, he's absolutely right. This is enough talking about the Legislative Committee that can do something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19913	Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and no one did. We turn to the messengers of the people who answered the word, in the order they answered. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19914	In the principle debate, the SRS paid special attention to this particular chapter of stopping and parking. In principle debate, through our discussion, when this chapter of the proposed law is at stake, we have tried to point to the fact that the law and in this chapter will be inapplicable, given the legacy that we have today. Fellow MPs are really right when they say, at least when this part of the law is at stake, that it would be much smarter and more useful if people in the area and in the transport sector had solved this than if the law had been proposed and sent to MPs like this. We have expressed concern that this law is fully in line with the Law on Roads that regulate certain traffic procedures and actions in the protection zone of the road. As far as this amendment is concerned, this argument that Professor Shami reads is the reasoning of the Legislative Committee. I will look back on the reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment proposes to delete Article 62, Article 2, which reads: ‘The provisions of this stop-and-park law shall not apply to police officers in the performance of their official duties if the obligation to comply with the stop-and-park provisions of the vehicle would hinder the successful performance of their official duties’. I really don't mean anything by it, but the official duty of a police officer is also to determine the speed of the vehicle's movement, i.e. the measurement and operation of radar control. Why would we put these people in a position to commit an offence by committing our official duty? On the other hand, there may be some unwitting ones in the ministry who would abuse it. They would have abused, perhaps because of their proclivities, because they envisioned dragon penalties on the one hand, criminal points on the other. So now we assume what can happen. This government of yours, instead of stating everything it stated in an explanation that rejected this amendment, would have been much more rational and cleverer if this had been installed here in Article 62, Article 62, and then Article 62 had its own meaning, or that we were not questioning the official duty of the police. If you'd done what I said, there wouldn't have been any misunderstanding. In an explanation of not accepting the amendment, you stated: “The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that if a police officer committed an offence by driving a vehicle in carrying out life, rights, freedom and personal integrity of a person, protection of the property of a citizen, prevention, detection and lighting of criminal offences, offences and other delicacies, or the capture of the perpetrators of the same, is not considered a traffic offence.” If you had listed all these official duties as being in position 2, we wouldn't have really had a dilemma, at least when it comes to this, according to this member of the proposed law. But you put them in an explanation that one amendment, which is logical because of all of this, refused. I am obliged on behalf of the SRS to comment on a few more things regarding the law, or chapters on stopping and parking. I'll also mention that we partially touched that in the principle debate. Mr. Minister, you've been in your business for a long time, and I assume you know how many years this country has been behind us or the competent state authorities or some who have dealt with certain matters have not respected the laws of the same state. I thought I mentioned the Ibar highway this morning. There are many examples in Serbia. It is true, as one colleague said earlier, that we have an MP who travels daily. There are a lot of bad, unpleasant examples that we meet on the roads. There are many examples that the police cannot answer, with all their commitment to be constructive and to support traffickers. You guys here define who can, who can't, where and how we're gonna park. I asked you a question in principle – how will you regulate the accumulated problems of stopping the vehicle in the safety belt? I'm interested in how to treat wild parking lots that are in the safety belt. People made their own parking lots, sometimes something forced them to do it, and in time, the parking lotes stayed in the safety belt, which endangers traffic safety. How are you going to deal with that legacy and the problem of getting in the way? What are the defining and solving procedures for this problem going to mean? There's not a few of them, and there's not one law that's been broken when it comes to these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19915	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19916	One of the members of this law that has caused citizens perhaps the most controversy and doubts about the well-intentioned police towards drivers is this particular member and this particular attitude, where police exclusiveness is sought in relation to parking opportunities in some places where citizens are not allowed, and police are because they are on official duty. Why am I telling you this? Because it is a broad practice to abuse such parking, and citizens are witnesses of such abuses, especially when it comes to driving by spider. You will see to it that a number of parking companies per local administrations, which will tell you which pressures they are exposed to by local police if they happen to take a police officer's vehicle into a misdemeanour, even a private vehicle, and even a close relative's vehicle. It's always been exactly on some special official duty. Maybe that's why Mr. Shami was supposed to listen and adopt this amendment, because that exclusion is something that citizens are very hard to accept. And parking is the necessary need of every driver, and breaking the rules governing this area in traffic still needs to be the same for all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19917	The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19918	I'm glad you accepted a lot of amendments, so that the wrong picture doesn't come out that you refused all the amendments. I'm not glad you don't accept the key amendments that protect citizens. Why are we here to fix the law? Because we are representatives of the citizens. We're from different parties, but we represent the citizens. The law isn't civil, it's a lot of police. Here, doesn't this member prove it? You could have written that both firemen and ambulances might have it. What did that cost you? Why can only the police stop and park against regulations and not other services? Let me remind you what happened the other day in London. A police vehicle committed a misdemeanor, went through a red light, was recorded by a camera, the media came forward, and a big scandal broke out. There was no way the police could say that – he did it because he did his official duty, because apparently there is no law in their law, so the police became additionally embarrassed because she issued a statement that she did not know who was driving that police vehicle at the time. It's just like a little cartoon, to compare the situation in Serbia based on the law that you're proposing and something that's going on in Europe, and where the government you represent says it wants us to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19919	The word has an MP, Miljan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19920	I also want to support this amendment on this side. It's my personal opinion because if there's a stop or parking ban somewhere, it means it's not safe to stop there. That should be true for everyone, because if a cop, even if he's on official duty, stops there, that means he's disrupting traffic and endangering traffic safety. I'm sure you can always find an alternative to parking. I agree that the police are always working, and the police should always work, but it must not be at the expense of the safety of citizens and the safety of traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19921	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 64th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Doctor Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19922	Mr. Minister, here's another illustration of how one logical amendment has been completely irrefutablely rejected. It's about banning parking on the left side of the road, where, of course, parking is usually allowed. So, you go down the street, say Duke Stepe, it's a two-way traffic, it's not a full line, you spot a place on the left side of the road, and you can't safely cross the broken line and stop and park the car. Why? Will someone explain why? Anyway, you have to drive another 500 meters, make a semicircular turn, which is never too safe at the end of the line, to go back to the same place, except your car will be turned in the opposite direction. I don't understand why it can't be parked on the left side of the road under conditions. Would someone please give me an answer why I can't? Or it's also one of the pointless provisions that I don't know what they're doing except to punish drivers who simply don't make sense that they're putting traffic safety at risk. They're not jeopardizing. Why would he? I repeat, I'm not talking about situations where parking is not normally allowed and I'm not talking about situations where the line is full, which, of course, can't be cut, that's another thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19923	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Transport and Connection Committee is, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment, with correction, to Article 66. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, with neither the proposing representative nor the Legislative Committee having made its statement on the submission of the amendments. Is there anyone who might like a word? Yeah. ) The amendment has been accepted, but has not been declared to amend the amendment. You want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19924	It's about parking (I'm talking about citizens). The bill essentially states, as we read the formulation, that the driver must not park on the sidewalk unless it is allowed and regulated by traffic signalling, or if there is an area for the movement of pedestrians of at least 1.6 metres wide, which must not be at the edge of August. This formulation means that in Belgrade, parking on the sidewalk is allowed if pedestrians have 1.6 meters towards the building, that is, since August. Please don't accept this amendment. All right, explain to me why, because I think that... You can't buy a car in Japan unless you have a parking space. That's because it's a small country, and it's a lot of people. We have a parking problem in Belgrade. If pedestrians have enough room to pass, and it's always the interest of pedestrians to decide, and there are wide sidewalks, why can't they park there? It would be a contribution to traffic security, because people wouldn't leave cars in August with all four blinkers on, etc. If I understand correctly, you will, by accepting this amendment, ban Mr. Urosevic from parking anywhere except where it is allowed. It's better to be allowed everywhere except in places where it's forbidden. It is a little more work for the city's authorities, but it is in the interest of the citizens of Belgrade, the driver of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19925	As you can see, the consultation is flying. Just a little patience, please. The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19926	Article 66. We accept an amendment to the Committee's amendment. In Article 66, point 1(1), the number "five" is replaced by the number "three", in point 3 "five" is replaced by the number 'three', and in point 2 "who is carrying out a passenger taxi" is deleted. In Article 66, paragraph 13 is amended as follows: "on the sidewalk, unless this is exceptionally permitted by a traffic sign". All right, Mr. Stay?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19927	It's not. So there's no parking on the sidewalk unless it's allowed, and the bill says it's allowed unless it's prohibited. I think it's better if it's allowed, unless it's forbidden. Belgrade has many vehicles, few have parking places where pedestrians have 1.6m.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19928	I'm sorry, just to clear up this little misunderstanding. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Urosevic to Article 66. The Government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the Bill's bill to be on the sidewalk, unless (regulated) by traffic signalling, etc. remain free, when the vehicle is parked, that passageway for 1,60 meters, which must not be along the edge of August. Are we done now? It's two amendments, we've practically cleared up this misunderstanding. Thank you. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19929	I'm reporting on the basis of article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I ask you, Mr Novakovic, and the members of the Government, or Mr Mr Mrkonjic, who represents this law here, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and the fact that the work of this Parliament is followed by citizens and that citizens expect from both the MPs and the representatives of the Government to know what it is that we are discussing here, because this law is very interesting for every citizen in Serbia. Believe me, that's what we told you yesterday, which is why we insisted that today we discuss it, that citizens can't wait to hear, because there's a lot of writing and talking about this bill, that they know what it is that the National Assembly in the field of traffic security is going to prescribe. We are obliged, all of us who address each other, and in fact we are talking to the citizens of Serbia, to tell them loud and clear, because it cannot be expected that a Serbian citizen will take to read the law of 200 members or engage someone to interpret it, but it is precisely this way that people get to know the most important provisions of this law, because it is precisely these most important provisions and people's MPs who talk about it. And we can't do it this way, Mr. Grouchy, if you read to accept, add, delete, point 2, point 3. etc. You have a team next to you, ask them, when you adopt the amendment, let them, with the proposed amendment and your proposal, formulate the whole member, and if you adopt that, then say, that the MPs and citizens hear it – we accept Amendment number 3, let's say, and now, with that amendment, Article 22 looks like this and read it. Because this way we don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19930	Thank you. You're right, but technically, in the discussion of details, unfortunately, this is exactly what the debate looks like. Thanks to a good conversation and a good discussion, I am absolutely sure that Serbian citizens who follow this transmission understand where these discussions are taking place and what the consequences and investments of the amendments and the solutions proposed, which have been accepted and rejected. Unfortunately, of course, in some cases, there's a "delegate," "adds"... It is a little vague, but in the final text, it will certainly be clear to everyone where they can and can't park their vehicle, so hopefully, if you're satisfied with this kind of explanation... I tried to be a little closer to the Rules of Procedure, and less formal, precisely because of the quality of the debate so far. Thank you for understanding. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be a possible law, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 77th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19931	It is really good that the proposed amendment is not accepted. Otherwise, the amendment refers to Article 77(1) and is proposed to delete item 1. We here can lead both fierce and all kinds of controversy, we can dispute and believe that in one such atmosphere, at least here in parliament, the best solutions will come out, but we can't dispute some newspapers that are introduced by this law and that are good, that are useful, that we don't accept them as such and that we don't realize that they will all benefit, especially those who are on the road every day. But the government wouldn't be a government if, in its explanation, you wouldn't put it again if the amendment were rejected because it was a European practice, i.e. That's right in Europe. This country must stop living, breathing and thinking only because the EU does the same. We are the European continent, we are where we are, but it seems to me that as citizens of Serbia in the context of Europe, we are not citizens of the second or third order and that we really deserve a man's life, even when it comes to traffic security. This is one of the categories or newspapers that is first introduced into legislation in the area of traffic security in Serbia and for the SRS, along with several others, is really acceptable and correct. There must certainly be a few more newspapers that are acceptable to us, which are a ban on the use of mobile phones in the vehicle, a speed limit around the school to 30 kilometers, the introduction of a violent driving term, which has been explained here today, and what has been particularly and quite a lot of words. It is certainly necessary to welcome the decision to issue certificates for auto-schools, i.e. for instructors, to make detailed categorisation of driving licences depending on the type of vehicle, etc. We can look back at this newspaper and criticise them, certifications, etc., for the fact that the Agency, which is completely unnecessary and pointless, or detailed categorization, which we will talk about later, when we get to these members of the law, which may have gone too far in detail and dissipated the proposal's intention. But those things that are really good should be accepted, that is, for those who, as a proposal for an amendment, come badly, should be said to be rejected, and we think that this amendment is completely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19932	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked in the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, that the foglights, when there is no fog, were the front or last ones, would be turned off. The government has given a rather surprising explanation why it does not accept the amendment. I'll just read and comment on the expertise of those who wrote it. 'The front foglight differs from short lights' (I don't think short lights exist, only that someone'short' wrote it; there are down or medium lights, short lights, 'by the length of the light beam - have a shorter beam of light, and in that sense, and when they are included in normal visibility conditions there is no impact on vehicles that come into contact with that vehicle'. Is this the only chance they have of having an impact on a vehicle that's involved in traffic? Let's take a look and get out of theory and get into practice. First, many drivers build their own foglights. Often they place four lights on the bumper, and they turn it on. When a light vehicle like that comes into contact with you, you feel like they're making a movie in your car or, least of all, taking pictures of you for your ID. I also ask the question – and who, in normal circumstances, in normal visibility, without rainfall, could turn on foglights or who would normally turn on front fog lights on the Belgrade boulevards that are lit? Explain that to me. Or maybe you wrote this because most often those who drive jeeps have foglights on, and they're still running from the left and the right and the one-way streets, so let's not let the police punish them for it. The joke aside, there's this one. There's half the truth in every joke. But the fact is, we're not being too smart, it's probably the manufacturer who knows what kind of lights he needs to put on his car, how strong the light beam should be, which distance, density, etc. Here I am, wearing a dioptrium of 4-5, in normal visibility, with the lights down, I don't need foglights. And it's not true that they don't bother the fog lights that are on under normal circumstances. It is few who wrote this argument forgets that they are now starting to drive more and more newer generations, which often have brighter foglights than some car that was built 10 years ago. Manage a vehicle 10 years old and over when one of these goes to meet you. Try to keep your course, your normal movement, everything else, and you'll see that you're being distracted in traffic. Or worse. When it comes to meeting you, you will slow down, you will tap, you will reduce the speed (as you say – you will adjust), but I ask you what you will do when it starts to reflect in your mirrors and in front of the windscreen, so you do not see anything in front of you, you give a blinker, you slow down, you turn the malts off from traffic to let someone like that go. I don't want to talk about it, even though whoever gave this explanation should know what kind of polarization of light is, what kind of lights are, how it's tattooing on the driver, how it's shot down or short lights (as they call them here) act when it's polarized, which has a lens on the headlight, so the front windscreen, how the driver gets far less light than it really is, or some unnatural position, like the fog lights that are down, and a lot more light gets a driver in his field of vision than it would normally be with short lights. I think you should think about accepting this amendment, because I don't see a single normal reason why a driver in normal visibility, when there's no atmospheric rainfall, and the fog isn't the only atmospheric rainfall, would have to turn on front fog lights, the last one -- that we're not talking. I don't see any reason, except that, well, he doesn't interfere with others or show how big and important he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19934	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Transport and Connections, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have submitted an amendment to Article 80. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was also submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has a minister. It's about an amendment to the Committee I read earlier, to Article 80.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19935	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 80, paragraph 3 after the word "on-board" is added to the words set out in Article 1 of this article. We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19936	The People's MP, Gordan Rajkov, submitted to the 81st Amendment. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 82nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 90th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19937	I'm starting to be slowly rescinded, because I don't see any reason why these amendments haven't been accepted. This is about bike drivers, where in the law at point 1) is said – it must not drop the driver out of its hands. That's okay, but I added something that's absolutely necessary: 'unless by hand it gives a detour sign', which is also mandatory. And point 7 is changed. Instead of 'using both earphones for audio devices' We said, "using audio headphones so he can't hear information relevant to traffic." [[because it doesn't mean anything to both ears, it can hold on to one, so it doesn't hear anything]] He can hold on to one ear, so what? Again, our goal was to correct the text of the law, not to change the essence, so I don't know, and I still don't understand why the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19938	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19939	I think my amendment contributes to traffic safety, because I suggest that both the driver and the passenger motorcycle, mopeds, tricycles or four-wheels must be worn on their head by a buckled-up helmet, in a manner prescribed by the helmet manufacturer's declaration. Your helmet formulation is insufficient for me. It says they have to wear a protective helmet according to purpose. I think first, helmets must be made and manufactured for that purpose. Your formulation allows you to wear a mining helmet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19940	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19941	Ladies and gentlemen, I accept this amendment, which reads: 'Article 91 of Article 1 is amended and reads as follows: The driver and passenger of motorcycles, mopeds, tricycles or four-wheels must wear on their head a buckled protective helmet, in a manner prescribed by the helmet manufacturer's declaration'. Is that all right, Mr. Standing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19942	I thank and realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 93rd Amendment was submitted by MP Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Transport and Communications Committee has withdrawn the amendment to Article 96. Members of the 96th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Transport and Connection Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19943	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is one of the amendments the Committee has accepted, and the government has not, so it would probably be good for the government to definitely declare this amendment. In fact, it is a provision that when crossing over August, a pedestrian should not use a mobile phone or use earphones. I don't argue that would be nice, but a slow possibility of even controlling it. I don't know who's going to control it and how it's going to be sanctioned. I'm against provisions that are inconclusive. If the provision is inconclusive, then there is no need to enter it. Because it's only, especially young people, that you're kind of getting used to in advance that they can break the law. We suggested that this provision be deleted. As much as we're about to ban every phone in the car, we don't see how this can be done, how anyone imagines doing this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19944	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19945	I suggest that this amendment is not accepted, with all due respect for the argument that in practice it will be difficult to implement this provision, but the fact that there is so-called. Attention spread among all traffic participants when using a mobile phone. The pedestrians are involved in traffic, and this is an important category of traffic participants, and often by the failure of pedestrians there is an accident. If the pedestrian is talking on a mobile phone, at the same time crossing the street, it should assess its speed and speed of movement of other vehicles and traffic users, to assess the distance and time for which it can cross, and all the time it talks, I think that this provision is very relevant and that it will certainly affect the reduction of the number of traffic accidents whose direct culprits are pedestrians due to the use of mobile phones.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19946	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Transport and Connection Committee is, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 99. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19947	Now listen carefully, Mr. Minister. So far, we've been fighting for the rights of drivers, who don't have objectively, now let's go for the pedestrians. This is about the driver's obligation to the pedestrians. In Section 3, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you have written that at a pedestrian crossing where there is no traffic light or driver required to adjust the speed of the vehicle so that in any situation it sees or has reason to predict it can safely stop it in front of the pedestrian crossing. What does this mean in practice, Mr. Grouchy? This means that at a pedestrian crossing where there are no police officers and traffic lights, the driver is not obliged to stop, but is obliged to drive in such a way that the passing foot does not strike. But when a foot is standing and clearly can be expected, since it's a walking pass, that he wants to cross, but he didn't step, he just stands, you, as you formulate here, don't make a commitment to the driver to stop in front of the pedestrian crossing and let go of the pedestrian, but you're just saying he should drive so that if this one goes, he doesn't hit. Imagine a child or an old woman who is on foot crossing, not everyone is able to walk and thus let the driver know that they want to cross, although it is clear, if they are standing at a walking crossing, that they want to cross. I suggest that it be formulated in the following way: 'At a marked pedestrian crossing where traffic is not regulated by a police officer or not regulated by a traffic light, driver and other traffic participants are obliged to miss the pedestrians at the crossing, giving a sign that they intend to cross over the crossing or unequivocally demonstrate that intention'. In fact, you're going to put people in a position to stand at the crossing without being able to cross over, and the cops are going to be in a position to punish. And what percent, the driver's promiscuity will know these formulations? And then the cops will say, "Why didn't you let him go?" And he's going to say, he didn't step. And the driver will be right. I don't think walking, if there's a crosswalk, doesn't have to be forced to step foot in order to stop his vehicle. General, turn your head, but give me an argument as to why you allow the driver to have no obligation to stand at the walking crossing even though someone is standing and waiting for someone to stop first. He's going to have to wait for some driver who's being tolerated and who, despite the law's not giving him the obligation to stop, will stop the vehicle. I think the pedestrian must have greater rights to the pedestrian crossing when there's no traffic lights and there's no cop.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19948	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 99th Amendment was also submitted by the People's MP Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 106th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19949	The amendment consists of erasing the following point: 'Extremely from the position of the 1st member', and it is about vehicles accompanied by, 'Accompanied vehicle shall only provide special light signs without a siren, if sufficient visibility of that vehicle and safety of traffic participants... ''In fact, we think it is necessary to completely eliminate the possibility that vehicles accompanying them give no sign of a siren, for the simple reason that, in terms of real traffic, they can cause confusion with the driver. So if the vehicle is escorted, then there are lights and sirens, and then it's all clear, there's no excuse that the other traffic participants could have overlooked that the vehicle was accompanied. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19950	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19951	This is the direct consequence of the previous amendment. If there's no hearing about the previous amendment, then there's no need to explain this one either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19952	Thanks for that, too. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic to article 109. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in an amendment I submitted on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, I wanted to tighten certain conditions about how drivers who operate vehicles with passing championships will behave. The amendment was rejected because some similar formulation is in the previous article, but let's discuss it a little bit. Since we've determined that there are vehicles with a pass-by championship, that they have sound signals, light signals, that when it comes to vehicles of the MUP, the minister decides with a special act... (President: Mr Arsic, I apologize, the minister wishes to accept your amendment. Is that a good reason to interrupt? ) However, I would like to conclude, I hope that it will not change its decision to accept the amendment. It is therefore that you should write in the law and under what conditions vehicles with passing championships should be used, that is, to use sound and light signals. Most of the time, we make impressions out of practice. I was talking about how, when Dinkic went to one place in Branic County, the other participants in the retail traffic had to get out of the way no matter what, in the field, just to stay alive. We still have a situation like this. When the president of one of our neighbouring countries visited us, he had his own security detail, but he had our own, which our ministry gave. They were literally removing the vehicles that were in front here through "Gazale" in the sense that they were going to force that vehicle, without any warning at all, so, on the back, to remove that vehicle, because God forbid something happens to this thing, etc. But I have to point out, he was only doing it with domestic plates, the ones on the side didn't touch. That's true. Maybe it's funny to you, but it's true. So, it should be defined under what conditions, and something else, for Mr. Ministers who are often in these vehicles, I don't see the need for any member of the government who isn't meant to have his own personal security to have a vehicle with a pass-by championship. Wherever he's going, he'll be here five or ten minutes later, or sooner, it doesn't matter, but to stop that story from harassing the citizens and, worse still, endangering the safety of all traffickers because, well, someone hasn't arrived, so he's gonna be a little late. No big deal's gonna happen. I was hoping, when the US Vice President's visit ended, that at least we'd be without sirens for a while, but that only lasted until last night, or until yesterday afternoon. So again, it has been continued with this practice that whenever there is an opportunity, I don't know why, especially when it's not dense traffic, it includes sound and light signals, to violate the law and threaten the safety of other traffic participants.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19954	Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19955	The amendment reads: "Article 109 of Article 2 adds a new attitude to the 3rd, which is – The person who manages the vehicle with the passing championship is obliged to take care of the safety of the other traffic participants". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19956	I find, after the adoption of the proposed authority, that the amendment in question has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. ) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Ostojic submitted an amendment, with a correction proposing that new members of 122a and 122b be added after Article 122a. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19957	My amendment refers to control of motor vehicles. A motor vehicle is a dangerous thing, as is a weapon. In this second case, the law stipulates how and under what conditions arms control is carried out. Control of motor vehicles isn't exactly the same, but it has one hidden advantage. I'll try to explain it. The most honest, objective control of traffic safety and violations of traffic rules, thus punishing them, are video surveillance and cameras. You'll agree that's the goal we have to pursue. No doubt, bribes, corruption, no mistake, that's what the camera recorded. Without these surveillance members, it will never come to life in Serbia. Maybe it's someone's goal, because then a man has more power, especially if he has a uniform. If we don't have this member, he'll always be able to say – I didn't operate, I forgot who I gave it to, I don't remember, etc. And then, in fact, video surveillance and even modern technical means that replace a man in the world, just because they're infallible, they won't come to life. There will always be an explanation that he simply doesn't know who was driving the motor vehicle that day, because the owner doesn't remember, he forgot. There's no sanctions, you can't make him remember. If you tell him that he has to know at any time who's in his vehicle (as he probably needs to know, or he can't give a gun to anyone else at all), then there's a chance that machines will slowly replace people and we'll all be happy because there's no punishment to follow. That's why not accepting this amendment would somehow show me that you don't want the cameras to replace the cops in the future. Not to say that, in some countries, for example. in Germany, if the owner says he doesn't know who the vehicle was in the past some day, he has an obligation under the law to keep a diary every day for a year. The police are checking to see if he's keeping a diary, and if he catches him keeping a diary about who he's giving the vehicle to, he's suffering a great punishment. A very great punishment is intended for such people who don't know where his vehicle was, say, seven or ten days ago. This amendment introduces the surveillance institute, which will contribute, in fact, to the future of the cameras as a means of registering traffic violations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19958	Does anyone else want a word in the debate under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Transport and Communications Committee withdrew the amendment to Article 123 and it is not the subject of discussion in particular. Transport and Communications Committee, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have submitted an amendment to Article 124. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Zoran Ostojic submitted an amendment proposing that new members of 130a, 130b, 130v and 130g be added after article 130. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19959	Because of what is happening on our roads and the need to pass this law because it is old, very old, I think that in Serbia children die more than in other countries (I'm talking about averages, population, etc.).I really think that this member, which refers to special child protection measures, as a society, would show that we care to change the situation. Nothing sensational, nothing that takes away the police's authority, but I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19960	People's MP Mirko Chikiriz wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19961	I would agree with some of the colleagues who said that all of us who participated most in the debate on these laws cared a lot about the rights of the driver, but the driver, by the very fact that there is a limit around him, is much safer than the most sensitive category of traffic participants, and these are children. I think this amendment is very appropriate, that it has an educational role, a protective role, that, in any case, everything that is going on on our roads, and in terms of the injury and mortality of the youngest category of traffic participants, will affect both preventively and in any other way that the number of children affected is reduced. I wanted to mention one positive example. While Mr. Mica Vujanic of Belgrade's Transport Faculty was the secretary of traffic, I think a programme, at the city level, protection of children in traffic and that the programme has produced extraordinary results. I don't think we have any reason not to pay particular attention to the youngest traffic users, as well as to the responsibilities of parents and persons who monitor to keep children out of complex traffic conditions and to leave them to themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19962	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the amendment to Article 133, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the work of today's session in direct transmission of RTS will be held until 1940 hours, and our work will then be broadcast in a delayed transmission. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic to Article 133. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19963	In short, the essence of my amendment is that the police have no right to determine where any sign will be, but there must be a project. This means that previous traffic engineers, professional faces, say -- on this direction, where you can drive 80, will be 80, not 40 -- to make a "pocus pig". We all know of a traffic signal that harasses drivers, long lines in directions where they don't belong, low limits in directions where they don't belong... It is only possible if the practice so far remains that the police have the authority to even set traffic signs without the involvement of the profession. I suggest that every traffic sign must have a project behind it. The project is done by those who are professional. This would reduce volunteerism and what we often have opportunities to see on the road. Yeah, this is one of those amendments that takes a little bit of power to the police, so I'm guessing you won't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19964	The word is from Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19965	I'll be brief. I think this is a really correct and meaningful amendment, which insists on science and expertise. It would not be bad to accept an amendment that would define the engagement of professions, i.e. people who really have or carry one empire with them, and these are the people for whom we insisted throughout the entire day that in one more serious and intense way they should be involved in this whole law enforcement story, i.e. that there was no need for some innovations, by inventing new agencies, etc., but rather, the people we have from this area, from this profession, should have been engaged in serious ways. Projects are a major problem for Serbia. Serbia has roads, but there is no project documentation for these routes. This is a serious problem, and in some ways a simple traffic sign is a necessary project. Serbia will have problems with making the documentation, but this does not mean that one of these standards, which insists on project documents, should not be classified and that in this way we make some bond or obligation to the state to get serious in this context and that in the next period in Serbia we do not have a sign or a bander without an orderly technical documentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19966	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zlata Djeric has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 133 be added after article 133. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19967	I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, which is scheduled to add a new member of 133 after article 133, which reads: "A public road manager must set up a traffic signalling towards a traffic project, in line with traffic conditions and traffic safety requirements. The agreement on the project referred to in Article 1 shall be given by the Ministry responsible for the affairs of traffic, i.e. the competent authority of local self-government. The traffic signalling must be set for traffic participants to be able to spot it on time and easily detect it and proceed in a timely manner in accordance with its meaning. The traffic signalling system shall be completed, replaced, or removed, on which it must keep the prescribed records if its meaning does not meet the changed traffic conditions on the road, traffic safety requirements, or if it has been destroyed, damaged, or lost its properties prescribed by standards. The traffic signalling is being set up, maintained and removed by natural, or legal persons authorised by law, or the regulation of local self-government.' This is part of the traffic signalling, general provisions, and this was foreseen in the previous text of the law. The legislator rejected this amendment, telling me that it was already settled in Article 158(3). The 3rd position is just like this: "For the implementation of a defined traffic regime, a traffic project must be developed and traffic signalled towards the project on the way. The competent authority referred to in Article 157(1) of this Act agrees that the project has been designed in accordance with the established traffic regime."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19968	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 145 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted to the Committee on Traffic and Connections. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 150th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19969	Thank you. It's an intervention, which I still don't understand why it wasn't accepted. Article 150 reads: "Light traffic signs for the marking of works and obstacles on the road... "and now describes it further. We only ask that at the end of the sentence be added: "and according to the road security project". In other words, that traffic signs being set up for roadwork have to be set up according to a project, can't be put on someone's face. It is no doubt in the function of better traffic safety and insists there must be a project for setting traffic signs to ensure road work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19970	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 159 of the amendment, MP Zlata Djeric submitted. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mirko Chikiriz? No, I don't. ) On Article 159 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19971	With this amendment, I propose the introduction of a built-up area, in order to relieve the restrictions given to it by this law. The government does not accept this amendment because it says that no clear meaning of the built area has been defined, so this would contribute to inaccuracies etc. I have defined the building area with one previous amendment, so since the government has rejected that amendment, then I have to agree, this argument makes sense. But if she'd accepted it, she wouldn't have. So, for the first time, the government has guessed, to put it that way. Yeah, he doesn't know what the area was built because the government wouldn't define it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19972	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 160th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Zoran Ostojic has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 166a be added after Article 166a. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19973	This is my attempt to get some more authority from the police ministry in favour of the education ministry, for example. Because I think this law suffers from the flaw that the previous law had, brought back to Tito's time, that everything about driving, training new drivers and education comes down to training. I remind you that training, essentially, is mastering some kind of skill: first speed, second, dome, clutch... And to that, unfortunately, everything called driving and learning in these past decades has been reduced. That's why we have "Kosovo" on the roads, among other things. This is where you go to car school and get your license, not to learn how to drive. That's the fundamental difference. I think the law naturally, because the police wrote it, neglects education and education. Unlike training, education is the transfer of knowledge, and education is the change of values of courts and attitudes. I think that, in addition to training, education and education are necessary for us to have traffic tomorrow in a way that deserves a country that wants to be European. So I think that this part, which in fact creates a commitment to have children and education and education in traffic since preschool age through the school system, will contribute to the future of those who are now young or not yet born really pass a driving test and that, by obtaining permission, they understand what it is. Because that's the point, not just getting permission and the right to drive without what's necessary. So at least give in here. The cops will teach again, but others will teach. I think if we're going to raise the pain of training to something much more, to introduce education and education, then something must be written about it in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19974	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19975	Madam Chairman, I think that any kind of formulation in terms of education of the youngest category of participants in traffic and future drivers, future cyclists, motorcyclists, etc., can be of benefit only. A kind of a shortened amendment can be accepted here, there is time for that, that there is a commitment of all the institutions mentioned in this amendment, and that, let's say, the Minister of Sublaws and the Government are closer to laying down the rules. We have so far had ad hoc projects in the field of traffic security in schools, but I think this needs to be regulated in a legal way, or in sublaw, but there is at least one general provision in the legal text. Because not only should we worry about children (and of course, they are the most important and important), we need to take care of future drivers. We don't live in the 19th century, when traffic was underdeveloped and 10% or 15% of the population were in cities, and others were in agriculture. We live in the 21st century, over 60% of the population is in urban areas, in the environments where traffic is encountered daily and I think this is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19976	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 171 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 178 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 178 of the amendment, Elena Christmas-Talijan submitted a national letter. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19977	My colleague Elena Christmas-Talian submitted this amendment, as you said, to Article 178, that is to say, at attitude 1, and predicted that the word "driving license" should be added in front of the words "relevant". Our intention, or her intention, was to make this amendment more precise and correct through this amendment the provision of this position in this article. But when it comes to the refusal of this amendment, it is a very interesting argument of the government. It is said here that "the Government does not accept this amendment because as such it would be contrary to the provisions of Article 7(1) of point 94), where it is determined that the driver's licence is a public document (decision) of the competent authority to which a person is given the right to drive on the road a vehicle of a specific category at a specified time". I don't think that's a reason to reject a proposal like this. This article 7, which you have called for, is not a material legal part of the law, and in no way, and if there is and there is no, it could not affect that the amendment that we have proposed on the text of the law is corrupting or unthinking it. On the other hand, you're saying yourself that a driver's license is a solution that allows you to drive a vehicle for a certain period of time. It defines that permission can be invalid. This could lead to a situation where, in any court or similar procedure, we get into a dilemma, we make an unpleasant situation. It seems to me that this is the only way we've figured out this term, that we haven't in any way defiled it essentially or in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19978	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 179 of the amendment, the Committee on Transport and Connections submitted its submissions, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Milorad Buh, to the 180th Amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 182, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Transport and Connections, on the basis of Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 182, the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19979	Thank you, Chairman. This member is talking about the introduction of a test driver's license. I must say immediately that DSS MPs welcome the idea of a test driver's license, but we are simply not satisfied with the realization of this idea and we have proposed a brand-new member. What's the basic difference? The draft law provides for a test driver's license exclusively for those who get a license and are 17, so they're underage, so whoever is 17 and 11 months old will have to get a test driver's license, and the one of 18 and a month old won't have to get a test driver's license. We thought they'd test the driver's license to get all the new drivers, even the ones at 50. Moreover, I think there's more chance that a young man of 18 or 19 will be a more promising driver than someone who passed a driver's test at 45 or 50 years of age. It's our idea to give a test driver's license for a certain period to all new drivers, all who passed the driver's test, regardless of the age. Think about it. That makes sense. For a minor, you can predict possibly some additional variations, that someone older has to sit in the car, etc., that's another, but a test driver's license, as a category, I say welcome the introduction of that, but we suggest that this member be introduced for all new drivers. You didn't accept that, but I have to admit, I don't understand. And yet I can't understand that someone who passed a driving test at age 17 and 11 and a half months will have to get a test driver's license, and the one who passed the driving test at 18 and one day won't have to get a test driver's license. That's, you'll admit it, you're a pain in the ass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19980	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 182 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia's Progressive Parties agrees that a test driver's license should be introduced. In fact, they're the most dangerous drivers in that first year, when they learn a skill called motor vehicle management. For the first few months of management, when they are kept by fear, they are careful and they take care of what they do. In a later period, if nothing happens, they start to act more relaxed, a little less watery about what they do, start breaking traffic regulations and, worst of all, create a habit of being trafficked for a long time, while their maturity simply doesn't allow them to behave like that anymore. Also, we believe that underage persons should not acquire the right to drive a motor vehicle, whether they have an experienced driver next to them or not. First, I think that since a motor vehicle (someone said so) is a weapon in a certain way, and we all agree that it is a means to cause serious physical harm or to take a life, it still takes a certain dose of maturity to get someone to sit down for a driver and get involved in public traffic. What does that mean – a more experienced driver? Data is some definition of five years old. But everyone, most people here, know at least three people, and I can count ten people, who have driver's licenses for 10 years and over, and they haven't moved for a motor vehicle driver. Is he a more experienced colleague? Is he the more experienced driver? He simply laid down, felt that he needed it then, and never more than a moment of laying down in a motor vehicle and engaged in traffic. We now leave the possibility that such instructors may also be some non-agency instructors who have the right to a test driver's license and to participate almost equally in traffic with other participants. There's no point in being 17 years old and 11 months or 18 years and one month. They'll make it 18 years and one day if they have to. And I don't mind people who are 17 years old taking a driving test in that year when they're going to be 18, because then they're in a qualified person with a double command and can affect the vehicle's direction, etc., so they're trained to train. It's about putting a minor on the wheel, getting him involved in traffic, and someone who isn't trained in control, advises, and does not have the opportunity to take any other action that would stop some young and unexperienced driver from starting. The government gave this explanation: "The government does not accept this amendment for the reasons that most European countries know this kind of driver's license, and the fact that a minor, unlike a minor, is provided by a more experienced driver... ''So this isn't even the obligation the EU makes us, it's "some practice". I can tell you, as far as these practices are concerned, next. He passed a man in Austria. That day he came to Serbia and crashed. There's so much about that practice. He wasn't 18. It took him a thousand kilometers and nothing happened and he immediately crashed. I think this amendment should be accepted. I don't mind being a minor with 17 years of age, but they can't take active part in traffic - with or without license plates, with or without a face that's supposed to be more experienced or without it. The only ones who can train are instructors, in special vehicles, with double commands, and that's the only way we can be completely safe. So I think that the government should accept this amendment, and especially since all these facts that we present are not from theory, but from the practice and life experience of all of us, and should be a little bit more respected by the promoters, because I see that the law has been written by professionals, I agree, but people who rarely drive, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19982	The remaining time available to MPs' group Forwards is a minute and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19983	This is really a technical amendment and it's not an epochal invention. This member says the driver must have a driver's license, and we have inserted the word "important". You know, I have seven passports at home, but I can't get out of the country with any of those seven passports because they don't work. I have to show up at the border with a valid passport. I don't have it right now, though, but it doesn't matter. So, what's a driver's license? It's paper. What if it's no longer valid, her deadline's up, she's been canceled...? The driver must have a valid driver's license. You haven't accepted much more significant amendments, so you don't have to accept this one either, but I think this is common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19984	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 184 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Transport and Connection Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19985	Dear friends, I ask the legislator to accept this amendment, for the face of the promoter himself, because it puts the text in order, so I don't now explain what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19986	The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19987	We accept, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the People's MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic to Article 187th point 2-5. The bill, which reads: ‘Article 187 of point 2-5 of point 5, changes and reads: 2) more than 0,30 mg/ml to 0,50 mg/ml - moderate alcoholism, 3) more than 0,5 mg/ml to 1.20 mg/ml - medium alcoholism, 4) more than 1,20 mg/ml to 1,60 mg/ml – heavy alcoholism and 5) more than 1,60 mg/ml to 2,00 mg/ml – very heavy alcoholism’. Is everything all right, Mr. Shami? Maybe I didn't read it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19988	Thank you for accepting. It's about the fact that as defined in the law, there was a hole. There are infinitely many numbers between 1.60 and 1.61. If someone has 1,605 mg/ml alcoholism, according to your proposal, they would not be responsible at all, and this formulation excludes it. Of course, the DSS supports strengthening the regime in general towards people who tend to drive under the influence of alcohol and that is not at all controversial. Whoever sits with 1.6 or 2 spilled alcohol in his blood, he's said to be mildly hospitalized, but not for the treatment of alcoholism, but to make sure it's complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19989	Given that the proposal has just adopted the amendment and that it has already done so by the Committee on Transport and Links, and that the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, this amendment becomes an integral part of the draft law and will no longer be declared by the Assembly. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 195. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Milan Veselinović submitted an amendment to Article 195 paragraph 7 and suggested that it be changed, i.e.: "A tractor and a working machine can be managed by a driver who has a driver's license for vehicles of category F and driver's licenses B, BE, C1, C1E, C, CE, D1, D1E, D and DE". I will comment on this amendment, but I will definitely be attached to the amendment that had just been read, or amendment to Article 180 of the proposed law, which was submitted by my colleague Milorad Buha. I'm going to comment on it because we were basically driven by the same motives when we submitted these amendments. Namely, you are in the explanation that you refused to amend my colleague's statement that "the government does not accept this amendment because, according to the tractor's current regulations, it was possible to manage a person who owns a driver's license for categories B, C or D without any prior experience and knowledge of the skills of these vehicles, for which objectively, given the routes that this vehicle is moving, knowledge of specific skills is required." I'd like to comment on a piece of the way this vehicle's moving. I think you've put this on quite hasty, because in the follow-up to this argument, you're saying that there's evidence that in the past five years, in the car accidents caused by tractor drivers, 292 people died, etc. In addition, Article 196(1), point 2, 3 and 4. The bill provided that drivers of B, C or D categories who had the right to manage the tractor so far had the right to do so even after the bill was adopted. You know, sometimes restrictiveity isn't a function of efficiency. We thought that in this case, but also in the case concerning the amendment to Article 180. The bill, the flexibility we propose before giving effect to the application of this law, rather than having such restrictive measures having its purpose and its effect. It is impossible for a person who drives a tow truck or who undergos boot training, for a bus, to manage a tractor, or for drivers of those categories to undergo special training in order to manage a tractor. On the other hand, what it means -- on the roads where tractors are used, so statistics say -- there have been so many and so many tragedies, etc. It is impossible that these tragedies occurred in the field, when a farmer plows or performs another agricultural shop. That's why I really believe that restrictiveness is foreseen through this article of the law meaningless, unnecessary, and I think that some of that attitude can also apply to the position of the 180th proposed law, which regulates the years on which you get the opportunity to get categories for a moped, vehicle, etc. That's where you predicted that kids are now allowed to manage the moped at 15, and so far it's 14 years old, and on the other hand, to get a category of criteria you raised by three years, from 21 to 24. Now we come to this story with which I started my own explanation. It won't always give effect. You can't stop them from riding the bike like this. You just can't. Passion is passion, and it will go because of passion in trouble. You had to find a better, more flexible and efficient method to increase this age to 24 years, for example, you had to find some other method. We think this won't give effect, it's too restrictive. This, for example, is evidence in the SRS that not everything that comes from the EU is not always good, as it is said to be the practice of EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19991	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 196 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Ostojic submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing that new members of 196a-196i be added after article 196. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19992	I'm talking about citizens, it's about a member who introduces criminal points. As the proposer suggested, as if he cared that we all got to 18 points as soon as possible, to take away our driver's license, and then go to a seminar that the Agency organizes and then come back to us. I don't think that this formula can achieve the purpose of introducing criminal points, which exist in other countries, and that's not a question. We wish, gentlemen, for this law to be passed, just so there is no ambiguity, we want it to be good. I suggest that drivers be ranked by the number of points. How in one of the previous members did you rank alcoholism - moderate, weak, complete, etc., and you won't rank drivers? It's not essential that someone who won 10 points as soon as they get to 18, win 11, then 12. etc., but the point is that, as he drives and wins points badly, the Agency, which should be the heart of that system of improved traffic safety, works with him, then goes to seminars, then goes to training, depending on whether he's a bad driver, whether he's unconscious, whether he's risky, etc. I suggest ranking the driver, and then measures, rights and obligations towards him, where, if he realizes he's wrong, if he goes to seminars, if he's fixed in the course of the points, that even some points are deleted, as a reward. You're here linearly, you're just waiting for someone to get to 18 and then a seminar and give him back his license. On the other hand, around the penalty points, all the authorities in the police are again -- you keep records, you write points, not a public document, you get licenses. I just think this needs to be arranged a little bit more normal, more sophisticated. You'll be in charge again, but I don't think it's the point to punish her, it's to learn. And you can learn when you get six points. Well, everyone's gonna go to a seminar to get two off him instead of waiting to get to 18 points. You, in the light of this proposal of my new members, say you reject this because it requires additional costs, and time is a crisis so the public will, etc. First, it should be done by the Agency, and according to your proposal, the Agency will organise the seminar, but only when the driver's license is withdrawn because of 18 points. I remind you that this agency will receive nearly 20%, 18% of the fine. That, by my count, is about eight million euros a year. Those eightm euros should probably be spent to improve traffic safety, and the promotion is not only to get to 18 as soon as possible, to withdraw the license, to drive him to a seminar, but to constantly encourage him to learn, to fix and reward him. This may be a little harder, but that agency needs something serious to deal with. I hope you didn't just provide for the Agency as the arrest of some police officers prior to retirement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19993	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 197 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 197 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 197 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić to Article 199. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19994	Just as an explanation, for the people who look at this with interest. Since I have proposed new members, who are more detailed on the penalty points, these few amendments have been eradicating those members who have edited the penalty points in the bill. Since this isn't accepted, I don't need to ask to be deleted, because then there wouldn't be any penalty points.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19995	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 199 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted an amendment to Article 199 of Section 7 of point 1) and have proposed an amendment which implies that at point 1) it is: "that there is a completed traffic college, a road traffic department, and at least three years of work experience in the field of traffic security". The bill states: "it has completed a traffic or legal college". With all due respect, we have insisted here that the advantage of learning, that is, the profession or the dam, because, to be clear, we understand that the government's intention was, or the legislator of this law, to raise the standards foreseen by the law, which foresees traffic safety, to a higher level. Traffic college, I guess, has different directions and sections, and we've calculated that this is acceptable as a proposal, and I'm saying that because of the fact that we've submitted one number of amendments based on the talks we've had with the representatives of the community of auto school. These people seem to be gunned down by this law. Of course, that's what I said and in the principle debate, my intention is not to defend them or promote them, they have proposed some amendments that were absolutely unacceptable to us, but this was, say, something that was absolutely in the spirit of standards that were trying to predict this law. Why do we say they're a representative house? Since they have over 600 auto-schools within their association, more than 100 traffic engineers, a very large number of judicial experts, it seems to me that, based on the experience they carry with them or assume all these auto-schools in Serbia, the proposal they gave us was not unacceptable, or bad. We suggested that instead of a legal profession here, there be only traffic, road traffic. We think this can be accepted. Finally, it would not in any way undermine the quality or concept of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19997	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19998	Thank you. We suggested something similar to Mrs Lidija Vukicevic. In fact, we ask that the words "at least one of the interrogators" are changed in the word "students", and we ask point 1) to read as follows: "there is a completed traffic college for road traffic and transport". It's just saying here -- traffic college. That's extremely imprecise. He's got a school of traffic, for example. And CTU, which has nothing to do with the safety of road traffic. It further gives the possibility - law school etc. Why just traffic college? You know, there's a profession for everything. Being a fan and loving to do something, that's the tenth thing. I can love pulling teeth, but I doubt anyone would let me take people's teeth out because I'm not a dentist. Maybe some woodsman likes to build bridges, but I doubt someone would let him build bridges because he's a woodsman, he didn't finish a proper department at the construction college. Therefore, if it is road safety, then it is a competent engineer who has graduated from the school of traffic, road section, and point. All other fans, and later on in other members, nature lovers who would like to do some work because it's a good extra profit, good job when they retire from some services, etc., it's nice, but let them finish traffic school, so let them do it. This isn't petty. This is a request to start some things from the root to change. Let's set up a system, and that system will eventually give some results. As defined in this article, and even worse as it's defined by some of the other members who deal with auto-schools, it's not going to work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u19999	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic to Article 199. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20000	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, amendment to Article 199. The bill on traffic safety on the roads refers to the Transport Safety Agency. Members of the SNS will remind you, as promised earlier, and every time it comes to the establishment of a new agency until you say so – enough is enough, we have now really exaggerated the establishment of agencies for all and all things, we could begin with the abolition of them. This bill should increase the security of traffic participants, not to make security an excuse for making up a budget user, unrelated to how it will be financed at the beginning or later, by budget donations, etc. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, as far as I can tell, you did not have an excessive understanding of the arguments made by the opposition MPs in the debate in principle, so I will remind you of some of the important criticisms that the MPs of the Prosperity Group presented to Serbia in the debate, i.e. I will take the opportunity to inform more citizens about the key shortcomings of the law than you, given that you are not particularly interested in this. It seems to me that in the debate in principle I was the only one denied the answer, because you went out, and the other minister wasn't there, but good. We've referred you to a bad infrastructure, which, of course, you already know, but you're more interested in setting up agencies than in problems with poor signalling. We're also worried about the provisions of the law regarding, I didn't get an answer at the time, it seems to me that it's still a very bad provision, as far as the bus driver in the city's traffic is concerned. Let me remind you, it's the subject of eight-hour drive with a five-minute break, which is inconclusive, very dangerous, etc. Let's turn a little bit into a joke. It would be good, I think, Mr Mr. Mrkonjic, if you or Mr. Dacic had foreseen a strict working time of parliament with this bill, given that MPs work five working days without interruptions in the time period from 7:00 to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., that's where I count the time of the trip. Do you think MPs are dangerous to traffic after such a working day? The goal, I think, is just to vote as many laws as possible. Are we dangerous when we come home after 11:00 a.m. after the whole day? I think we are. I believe you'll agree with me. We also pointed to the senselessness of 17 categories for motor vehicles. To remind the citizens and you, Mr. Minister, that whoever has the driver's license of the 'B' category can't drive a moped, or a bike with a motorcycle, which is quite funny. I believe you don't agree with me, but again I say, comparisons work, a car of 5,000 cubic miles per hour, and a moped, which by your limit, I agree, be 35 kilometers per hour, but that a person with a 'B' category can't run a bike with a motorcycle -- that's absurd, I think. What I don't like most about this bill is the curfew, as I called it, that you introduce for people with a test driver's license. The ban refers to motor vehicle management from 23.00 to 5.00 in the morning. It seems to me that this provision of the law is anti-constitutional and discriminatory, and I don't like it at all. Otherwise, I respect the police and the work of the police. You might like what I'm about to say, in some cases you even need to increase the authorized police (not the traffic police, but the police). But, which is a lot, it's a lot. This provision is truly discriminatory and, in my opinion, anti-constitutional. You're introducing a curfew, it can't be called otherwise. (President: National MP, time available to your MP's group has been used. Here, I'm done. If you'll let me, I'll just finish. (President: 10 seconds.) ) Good, for the end, the criticism of Presidents Slavica Djukic-Dejanović and you, Mrs Comic. I'd put up with a number of amendments, but I didn't have time. I hope you will break up the practice of holding meetings today, with a deadline for submitting amendments by midnight today, and without notice at the home address of lawmakers who are not currently in Belgrade. I hope this law with more amendments would be better, but that's the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20001	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Pursuant to Article 203 of the amendment, the Committee on Transport and Connections has submitted, pursuant to Article 142(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 203rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic to Article 203. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 204 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 207 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 207 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 207 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is wanted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Time is available, as an authorised representative, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20002	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, practice so far, when similar solutions have been applied in other areas, it says that such amendments should not be accepted. Amendments to Article 207 are bound Lidija Dimitrijevic: "The Agency, with previous opinion of the representative single association of Serbia's auto-schools, assesses the required number of auto-schools per region and on this basis issues a license for the work of auto-schools" and Jovan Damjanovic: "The license of the position of the 1st member is issued with the prior opinion of the representative single association of Serbia's auto-schools". I'd like someone to explain to me what a unique association of Serbia's auto-schools is. Does this mean that by adopting a traffic safety law and adopting such amendments, we will have to predict that whoever gets permission to work at a car school has an obligation to be a member of a particular association? I agree that professional associations should exist, but let us remember that when there was a law on accounting and audit, where a professional association participated, they had to put auditors and accountants to the exams once a year to extend licences, to go to certain seminars, and not to talk about the quotations they requested on that occasion, etc. By accepting such an amendment, market conditions would be violated, firstly, if auto-schools in the market competed with the quality of teaching and decent training price per candidate or the association would determine both service prices and training quality, and that all car schools in the territory of the Republic of Serbia would have to adhere to that. Because, less or less, whoever shows up is taking a new risk or accepting the conditions that this association requires or is to be rejected, or that it cannot be entered into the register of companies with registration to be able to carry out the training of drivers. I believe that such amendments should not be accepted and should not be found, not only in this law, but wherever there is a condition for a representative to decide. It has only one goal: to establish a complete monopoly in one area. By establishing a monopoly, it loses its quality and the one who has established the monopoly gets the price. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20003	The 207th amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 207 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Road Safety: 'Article 207. Paragraph 4 is deleted'. Item 4 of Article 207 submitted The bill reads: "If a company carries out other activities than training candidates for drivers, that is to say, out of its seat, it shall establish a branch of the company in which the work of training of candidates for drivers is exclusively carried out, which shall be entered in the register of companies". The SRS suggests that this position be deleted because it is not subject to this law. In doing so, we believe that this provision, at the very least, is in conflict with the provisions of the Labour Act and the Business Society Act. Let me give you an example of how it shouldn't be done. The Directorate for Urbanism in Krusevec and the Republika Srpska Directorate have done the Jasic Loop project at the Kruševac two levels. But as the DS came to power in Krusevec in 2000 and the president of the Sava Popadic municipality, the project was rejected and Jasic's loop was done on one level. This loop was done at one level with traffic lights that never worked because they didn't have a valid license. So far, there have been dozens of car accidents, 11 lives lost, and great material damage has been done. So I ask Minister Mrkonjic to intervene under emergency and that Jasik Looping in Krusevec will once become in the right condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20005	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 207 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 207 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20006	SRS representative Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic submitted an amendment to Article 207 paragraph 8 and provides for an amendment, that item 8 reads: "The programme of training of members of the defence ministry for motor vehicle drivers in Serbia must cover the least content of the programme established under this law. Closer regulations on training and education of members of the Ministry of Defence for Motor Vehicle Drivers are brought by the Ministry of Defence'. My colleague's intention was only to match the terminology provided for by the position of the 8th member. In this position, the bill says that "The programme of training of members of the defence ministry for motor vehicle drivers in the Serbian Army must cover the least content of the programme established under this law. Closer regulations on the training and education of military personnel" (this is the introduction of a category of military personnel) "for motor vehicle drivers the minister responsible for defence affairs" is bringing in. Our intention was only to bring this terminology into line and I think the amendment is acceptable in technical terms. Why would two different terms for one thing be foreseen by one attitude? I would also like to comment on a few amendments that have passed. They were the only ones we wanted to be more precise and more specific. For the amendment before this, instead of one general category of 'professional schools', we have proposed to the amendments 'transport vocational schools', because we believe that such a definition in the law is more precise, more concrete, does not create any dilemma, and essentially does not change the legislator's intention. As for the story of some monopolies and possibly some obligations, when the state through the law wants to impose something, or anyone else, then there really is a principle of obligation. The principle of obligation, who wants to know or recognize it, was almost in this congregation on the agenda, or this government destroyed it. It is the principle of obligation that implies the Law on Chambers of Commerce. The intention of the SRS and its MPs through the amendments was nothing more than to respect the attitude of the profession, profession and experience that certain associations really have, and we had no intention of being someone's attorneys, to represent anyone's attitudes or interests here. We felt that by introducing certain categories through law and by giving meaning to certain institutions, the implementation and implementation of this law would indeed be comprehensive and meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20007	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 207 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 208 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 208 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 208, is in section 12 of the Road Safety Law, which deals with training candidates for drivers, and the objective of this amendment of the SRS is to allow for more rational equipment, and thus the opening of a larger number of auto-schools, which will also mean a number of employees, a larger number of legal persons, taxpayers. As for the proposed amendments to this amendment, the difference is in the following. In Article 208, point 4 of Article 208 of the Law, the legislator provided that the legal person, in addition to the theoretical training classroom, the office space for administrative work, teaching and teaching and training training, should own at least three vehicles of the 'B' category and at least one vehicle for other categories. The SRS amendment proposes that at least one, not less than three properly equipped vehicles of those categories for which the training of candidates is carried out, be a condition for a legal person to be involved in training candidates for drivers, except for categories A, A1, A2, AM, which are registered to a legal person or are provided through a lease. Such an amendment will, above all, find its satisfaction in smaller environments, where there are fewer candidates for training, but also legal persons who may not be in a position to provide a larger fleet for the functioning of a car school that must meet these five points of Article 208. The goal is to enable in these times of crisis, when many families are, above all, being existentially threatened by growing unemployment and crisis, opening, among other things, new auto-schools and hiring new instructors, lecturers and interrogators. But perhaps a lack of part of the funds to buy a few vehicles will be a reason to give up the opening of a car school. It's easy to do in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Chaka, etc., but it's hard to do it in Crno Trava, Shop, Babusnica, Kursumlia and many other "poverty cities". About how auto-schools carry out their work, let them take care of, above all, the competent authorities. The number of vehicles owned by an auto-school, regardless of the size of the facility, and the number of employees in it does not have to be guaranteed that they will be handled by the letter of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20009	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 208 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 209 of the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20010	It will seem to you, Mr Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen, that it is only a matter of technical nature, because in the first position of Article 209, we wanted to oblige the legislator to make the instructors involved in the work on a specific or indefinite basis of time on that job in accordance with the Labour Act. For this reason, which is very important, the law is what it is, and you know, Mr Mrkonjic, that he was brought in 2002 by Borislav Novakovic from Thessaloniki, later he had two changes, but it is important that driving instructors train drivers of the 'V' category, professionals, protection. Now, that doesn't add up to the story of some villains who wanted to represent the SRS here standing up for some monopoly or lobby. No, I don't. On the market, as Mr. Stevanović said, both in his Surdulica and in my Kragujevac there are so many auto-schools that indeed people who, especially who have gained a reputation, for many years or more of their jobs, know very well that potential candidates or future drivers will be recommended and above all because of driving instructors to opt for this and that auto-school. However, what I would like to point out here is a nonsensical in this law. By the way, driving instructors, the ones who are the most responsible for whether anyone who from the beginning knows neither the steering wheel nor the clutch or the gear to wear, someone from the least old age to the legal maximum age... There are cases like this, and you can read in the section of interest, that some grandmother passed in a country in a world where it's allowed for a driver's exam in seventy-five years. The joke aside, these people have a very responsible job and the Agency that you're establishing is obliged to issue them licenses. We are now going back to that police aspect of the law, that actually a police officer who is an interrogator and who checks knowledge (which theoretically, which practically) has, in the extreme case, a court of law on whether someone is trained to drive a motor vehicle, and that before that he is not licensed and that he does not go through such rigorous controls as it should also go through with his knowledge and skillful driving instructors. Here, I will end it, I will use a few more seconds of our parliamentary group time to tell you, Mr Mrkonjic, that it is much more important, and this is very professional, competent and with many arguments from all over Serbia, and in principle debate and now, to provide road infrastructure for the safe traffic of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20011	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 209 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 209 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 209 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 209 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. A representative of the Proposer and the Transport and Connection Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 210 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 211 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 211 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Vesna Marić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 211 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 213 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The Government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be a right, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Parliamentarians Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic submitted the amendment to Article 213. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20012	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is the first in a series of amendments to propose that the interior minister be transferred to other competent ministries. In this case, it is about the transfer to the Ministry of Education, and it is about the theoretical training of the driver, that the minister of education and co-operation with the minister of traffic is bringing about regulations. What does the police minister have to do with the theoretical training of the driver? There's nothing at all. And you will see that we will propose in the following amendments, to one 15-20 places, that some of the affairs of the Ministry of the Interior are transferred to or to the Ministry of Transport, most often, or to the Ministry of Education, and in one case it seems to me, extremely, to the Ministry of Health, because that is the logic. By chance, all three ministers are coming from the same party at the moment, but motivation is not political, but common sense, that everyone is doing their job. Police play a major role in traffic security control, no one slows it down and that's how it should stay, but in some jobs related to, above all, driver education and some other traffic safety-related jobs, some effort must finally be made to make it under the jurisdictional appropriate ministry. For viewers, I would like to remind you that this item of the agenda is very interested in the general public, precisely because this is not a political law, but a law that enlists a large number of citizens, and given that RTS, as usual, will exclude the Assembly because it has some generous work in half an hour, it might be a time to ask Mr. Minister to say, so the citizens will find out what the relationship with amendments that the government has not accepted so far, whether or not it accepts any more amendments, because this is very important for what MPs still have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20013	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Members of the People Radovan Radovanovic and Sladjan Mijaljević. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 214th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20014	I remain on request for Mr. Secretary to tell us immediately how he feels about the amendments. This is about, like I said, it's a series now, about the same, only in the next article. He says, "Nearer regulations on how to conduct the theoretical training of drivers are brought by the interior minister." The amendment proposed that the work be carried out by the 'Minister of Education with the attached opinion of the Minister of Traffic Affairs'. There will be more amendments like this. In no way do we think the interior minister should deal with regulations, training, schooling, questioning, etc. candidate for drivers. There's someone who's gonna do it. I remind you, the Agency is also designed to deal with this. That's our amendment. I would ask the minister to plead on this transfer of jurisdiction, as there is no need to discuss 15 of our amendments on this same subject unless they are intended to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20015	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 215 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenković. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 216 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 216 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of the People Radovan Radovanovic and Dejan Mirovic submitted the amendment to Article 217. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 218, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlović. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20016	Thank you very much, Mrs. Comic. Chapter 4 of Chapter XII of the Transport Safety Act refers to the rights and obligations of candidates for drivers, and those mentioned in the problem are dealt with by members 218, 219 and 220. The amendment I have submitted concerns Article 218, in particular the total cost of costing theoretical and practical training for drivers, including the cost of costing all certificates issued for training performed. It is known that training for drivers, as well as any other training, includes both the theoretical and practical parts, which together contain a series of different actions and activities that should represent one round and logical continent, which must be realized through different forms of teaching. The teaching itself, as a planned, pre-organised process, must have its own handler, the lecturer of theoretical teaching for the theoretical part of training, or driving instructors for the practical part, and it is normal that they must have an adequate qualification for this type of work. In doing so, the efficiency of the training carried out is measured by the training of the candidate for the driver for the achievement and independent participation in real traffic situations, and how much this efficiency will depend on a number of factors, particularly the psychological personality of candidates, then lecturers and instructors, and then on educational content, i.e. the plan and programme of teaching, and also of technological and economic circumstances such as the quality of the rolling stock, the equipment of training polygons and the cost of costing the teaching itself. When it comes to the price, that's what my amendment refers to, it's a well-known thing that high-quality teaching must have its own price, and that's what today differs from one car to another. However, it is unclear why the legislator in Article 218(3) suggested that the cost of training should also be the price of all certificates issued, because in this way we are coming up with the situation that, in order to issue a single certificate, the candidate can be identified for that car-school where it is much cheaper, and it would be logical that the prices of these certificates and all assurances, according to the Law on Administrative Taxes, are the same at the level of the entire republic. In this way, it would be avoided if the quality of the candidate training were chosen by the school that is cheaper, offering much less than some normally equipped car school. We believe that, at a time of economic crisis, this would also have a major economic effect, because the reduction in the price of various beliefs and certificates issued to candidates and how it can affect the still-stamped budget of our citizens. At the time of the economic crisis, everything needs to be reduced to real and acceptable frameworks, and so does the price of these certificates, for which we propose to be unique at the level of the entire republic, not varying from one car to another.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20017	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Members of the People Radovan Radovanovic and Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 221 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 221 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic to Article 221. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20018	My colleague Bojan Mladenovic predicted in Article 221 paragraph 2 of point 1) that the words "safety of traffic" would be replaced by the words "driver training", so that this point would read – that it has at least a higher level of professional training, the direction of road traffic (which you are now predicting by law, as we have just tried to correct) or a high professional training of another profession and at least five years of work experience in the area of driver training. We think it's really not enough to be someone with higher education who's been in the field of traffic security. Traffic security doesn't always mean driving training or it's not just that. The area of traffic security is something completely different, and we believe that the solution we have proposed is much more concrete, more adequate and in the spirit of your intentions that you suggest that this law be adopted by its content. Many things remain unsaid in the law, although you have accepted one extraordinary number of amendments. I would return only to Article 217, which says in paragraph 2, 'Extremely from Article 1 of this Member's position, the candidate for driver may manage without the supervision of the driving instructors of AM, A1, A2, B1 and F, except when performing initial practical training on an orderly range'. We have just talked in the context of these categories and have not been ready to accept amendments that have in some way introduced flexibility elements and as regards age regarding categories, but also regarding the fact that tractors in the future will only be able to drive those who finish exclusively professional tractor driving training. When the driving procedure, or already finished drivers and the tractor use, you are extremely restrictive, but in the training process you are flexible and you give even that candidates can manage without the supervision of instructors. These are some things that objectively leave certain dilemmas and doubts about whether the law is settled until the end. Had it been fortunate that this law had been passed long before, two, three or six years earlier, perhaps today statistics would not have been as tragic or catastrophic as we heard it was, and on the other hand, the practice of applying the six-year law today would have allowed us to discuss the amendment and addition of this law and to really introduce in this same law all new measures, new solutions that will indeed be based on experience and everything that characterizes traffic security. We feel that the state has acted irresponsiblely here. We believe that there are certain members in this law that are left unarranged. Unfortunately, you didn't seem to have enough hearing for the opposition's views, although, I repeat, you accepted a certain number of amendments. Also, I would take the opportunity to say that it's a good thing that you've accepted the amendment to postpone the application of this law. If possible, it may be good to use that time and to correct the remaining irregularities to give full effect on the field. It was really pointless for this law to enter into force eight days after the publication, and this same law provides that a hundred or more regulations by the competent ministries or sectors that will be engaged in the implementation of this law, meaning within six months, write. It's a good thing you did, but it doesn't seem to be enough for this law to be what it would be for all of us who are involved in traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20019	The word was sought by Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20020	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, when we began preparing this law, which was nine months ago, so a month ago after the government was elected, Mr Dacic and I, with our teams, had no doubt that the assembly, this high house, in which the three former Ministers of Transport and such quality MPs as you are today, would make such a contribution and contribute to making this law what we want. The enthusiasm that you participated in in the debate, criticisms that have always been at the limit of measurement (I have written down 85 remarks that you have placed, which we have not included in these amendments), the desire to really pass a law that citizens are eager to expect and adopted 81 amendments of 244, as far as we count, Professor Shami, says that a really big job is behind us now. We'll be adopting about 20 more amendments by the end. Just because Professor Shami wants this to go on television, I'm saying it now. Of course, the contribution, first of all, to Zoran Shami, Mr Zoran Ostojić, Mr Dragan Stevanovic, which for me is a great surprise, Mr Mirko Chikiriz, Mrs Jasmine Milosevic and a whole series of MPs, has shown that this law has a really huge interest in citizens and that what we have done so far is only a starting basis for further. We've got six months until law enforcement to fix some more things. What you've been criticizing here today, I give my word on behalf of Ivica Dacic and my word that as of tomorrow we will try to implement, at least part of those members. Of course, then there's law enforcement because law enforcement is what's most important. Especially, as a man who runs the infrastructure, I am surprised by the desire of most speakers to have the infrastructure in the first place in the coming years. Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that too. As one colleague said – man, vehicle, and road are what traffic is. Therefore, the state will make far greater efforts to make this third element far better than it has ever been. Mr. Stevanović was saying, I won't be going back much to all these remarks because I won't make it, I want you to keep talking while the television broadcast lasts, about those black spots. Of course, black dots can't be the subject of the law, but by the end of the year, we'll be finishing all projects related to Corridor 10 and the highway to Chačka. Next year, we'll start realising the highway to Chačka. So these black dots will be removed only by modernising our roads and investing most of our money in maintenance, so to speak, removing those road elements. So the infrastructure is important, we're going to give her much more attention and be sure that the state is going to stand behind what I'm saying right now. I don't get it, I think he was a colleague of Sasha's, which meant I wasn't interested. What did I show that I wasn't interested in? Maybe later in the hallway and explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20021	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami. Time is available for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20022	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, the DSS initially pointed out that it certainly supports the necessity of adopting a new traffic safety law. We also cited the reasons. We also pointed out that in the first wave, we needed to submit about 300 amendments to 350 and some members of this law. We gave up simply because some things were not possible to change, because there should be a lot to change, whole chapters, and on the other hand, we didn't exactly want to distract the congregation with every little thing. So we've submitted 73 amendments. What I know so far is that of those 73 amendments, 12 were accepted. I have to admit, I don't understand why all the amendments we've submitted haven't been accepted, because they're all very, very much too much. They repeat our fundamental objection to this law, which is that it continues to apply the wrong logic. We make the law in the 21st century, it's 2009. We're making a law that should probably follow some European standards. In this Europe, everyone swears, both when and when they don't have to. And on the other hand, very often we use logic that is suitable not even in the '90s, not even in the '80s, but in some cases in the '50s. The most banal example, this last one I reported for – what does the interior minister have to do with how drivers are educated? Is that the M.O.P.'s job? We still think it is. And that's not good. We've put a lot of work into it. Obviously, we haven't looked at the law politically, and the best proof of it is next. There are two parties in the opposition that are very politically different, LDP and DSS, but unfortunately for this law, we agreed on that law – that the law is not right. I apologize to Mr. Secretary. I think it would have been much better if the law had been the department of traffic, not the MUP. However, Mr Dacic said last time, and that is true, that the initiator was the previous interior minister. That's true, but right now, all I'm saying is, if it were the previous interior minister or any other interior minister, I'm not interested in it at all, this is a couple of excellencies from the Ministry of Traffic. Or, to be precise, the departments in charge of traffic operations, and it can be otherwise called, we like to make up different names. I thank the SPO gentleman who really gave some of his sincere contribution to making this law better. I would be much happier if other MPs of the ruling majority had shown some little greater interest in this law instead of voting it out. Had many more quality amendments to the opposition been adopted, the law would have been better. But I, right to tell you, rely on Europe. When the Brussels law arrives, you'll vote it, and it won't look much like this one, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20023	Thank you. The time available to MP Zoran Shami is a minute and 30 seconds as a parliamentary group and a minute and 30 seconds as an authorised representative. The application for a word in order is by the MPs: Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Ostojic, Sasa Maksimovic, Jasmina Milosevic, and that will be the order. So, the word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been paying attention to the minister of Mr. Dr. Mr. Mr. Morkonjic. He thanks everyone. I believe he had sincere intentions to make this law good, but it's enough to look at the argument the government gave on some members, so let's question that. I don't want to get into the professionalism of a team of 50 people who participated in the creation of this law. I believe that these are people of the profession – the profession is the profession, the theory is theory, practice is practice, and life is life. I wish this law didn't end with the establishment of the Agency, the introduction of criminal points, the issuing of licences and, of course, the repression that the state authorities are going to carry out on the road. When I look at the government's argument already on the next member, they give me the right to doubt that's the case. A colleague asked that the licence not be valid for five, but ten years – for interrogators, for persons performing a technical examination, for professional drivers and here's the answer they received from the Government: "The government does not accept this amendment because the intensity was to ensure that by setting a relatively short deadline of five years, rather than ten as the amendment promoter proposes, teachers of theoretical training continuously follow the development of technical and technological conditions that are characteristic of the 21st century. We believe the proposed ten-year term would be inappropriately long due to the rapid progress of technology... “ Ladies and gentlemen, I’m missing another 20 and a few days to get my driver’s license to be 19 years old. The steering wheel in Serbia has remained on the left side, on the right side is the gearbox, where the brakes, the clutches, the gas, the light indicators are known. I don't see what's going to change so much that the license will be reduced to five years. Unless you think in five or more years we won't be driving cars anymore than some other vehicles, maybe spaceships, aircraft or whatever. So I have the right to doubt that some have created this law for themselves, not for the citizens. Because of themselves, because they're going to be the ones to give lectures, because they're going to be the ones to charge for it from the citizens. But let's go back to the law itself and traffic. I have repeatedly pointed out that the problems we have in traffic and traffic security will not solve one law, but that this is a problem for society in general and that, when it comes to traffic safety, everyone has to work on it – first of all, those who are the most responsible for law enforcement, and that is traffic police. Our roads and road infrastructure haven't changed so much that we'd have such a drastic leap in traffic safety over the past 15 years. The problem is some habits we need to root out, and in the first place, the habit of war between traffic police and drivers must be eradicated. It's funny to someone, but imagine a little bit of the fact that because of this war that's being waged between those two groups, many other traffic users are breaking the law to the traffic police in front of their noses, and no one is responding. I don't blame those guys on the street. The problem is that nowhere in this law does it say who, when and how to work with them, will realize that, for the sake of traffic safety, traffic police must exist in the first place as an organ that helps traffic participants, regulate traffic, and only then, if the law and threats and everything else doesn't help, join repression, that is. Punishment. There's still a lot of problems when you get into the essence of that topic. The problem with the law itself is that neither the promoter nor many others convinced me that this would be the case. And a few days ago, I was talking about some big cattle that are being fed up in a protective field by the highway. For some, it was funny, but now I can tell the Minister and the gentlemen of the Republic Traffic Administration that they no longer have to go 40km from Belgrade to Nis to go to see big cattle in the highway's safety belt, enough for them to go to the drum stream. And it's not one cow, it's two. If it wasn't serious, it would be funny. But, gentlemen, there's a vehicle passing through that section every 15 or 20 minutes. I'm surprised something like that could happen to you. Not to them, the traffickers, but to you, because you didn't teach them to act preventively in the first place, not repressively, to punish themselves in order to fill the budget. The police in the right place play a preventive, regulatory role, help, and only then act as a parenting agent. Penalty - if it doesn't help anything else. I've seen that the state, if it wants, can do something in traffic. I'm not saying that these discussions haven't given us some first results, but you're still far from convincing me that they won't be privileged to traffic. I'm not talking about ministers or MPs or anything. I'm talking about that gentleman who's not allowed to do anything, I'm talking about expensive cars, jeeps, darkened glass, what kind of relationship they have to the police. And I totally understand what kind of relationship the police have with them, because it's obvious that behind these guys, if they want to enforce the law, no one will stop with the promise to keep doing their job properly and that nothing will happen to them. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time to stop this game that's going on with vehicles that are foreign plates because apparently traffic police abuse can do whatever they want on the highway. If there is abuse, you need to stop as soon as possible, and if someone is harassing them, the border police are harassing them, and you need to turn to them for more and faster miss. But it's certainly a shame for us to have buses on foreign license plates driving on the freeway for 80 miles and more. And it's a shame that someone's banning a cop who's on the ground doing his job. Just teach them to make a difference in violations, to build a graduation. If there are already violations, first they sanction those who are more socially dangerous, and not, like the situation, to measure the speed of the vehicle coming out of the belt, from the part where the restriction is. Not when it comes in, where it's socially dangerous, but when it comes out, because it's a better law. Here's an example here, drum stream, lastina garage. You will never see traffic police standing side by side from Nis towards Belgrade, where he is low-speed, but from Belgrade to Nis, when he comes out, when there is no intersection, no inclusion, nothing. I agree, it violates the law of constraint 80, but it's less socially dangerous than the one who gets into town from 140 on the hillside. You'll have to work more with your men on their training. Just so that the law is the same for everyone, that there are no favors in dark and expensive cars with darkened glass, which the police can't do, with such access we can say that we've done something for traffic safety. However, you are still far from convincing me of that, so I do not believe that if this law does not suffer much more changes, it will be important to improve to some longer time period of traffic security in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20025	The time remaining available as an authorised representative is one minute and 20 seconds. The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic. Right to the replica, based on direct reference. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20026	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry if you've identified yourself. I hope you listened to everything I said, not just that sentence. But for six years, you said yourself, waiting for this law in some drawer for its passage, don't you think it's unserious to schedule a session day by day with a deadline for the surrender of amendments by midnight? I think so. I didn't mean you directly, I meant the ruling majority and this assembly, or Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I'm sorry you recognized yourself personally. You were personally referred to without answering the question that I mentioned in the debate in principle, but I explained that in words too, you probably remember that you left without the Home Secretary coming. I believe you've come out for objective reasons, and that's what you're personally told. I apologize one more time if you misunderstood me. I'll take the opportunity to explain to you in public, so we don't meet in the halls.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20027	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Time is available for four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20028	Thank you for that commendation of Parliament, Mr. Mrkonjic. It's a refreshment after months of campaigning against the parliament run by your government and the executive government. Not you personally, but the ruling majority. We did everything we could to fix the law, because the law was necessary. I think what was possible at this point is better than nothing. I hold you by the word that what is absolutely justified somehow finds a place not in this law, but in some changes, when you realize that we were right today that we were preparing and trying to fix it. I owe the police gentlemen an explanation. That I'm trying to take some of your powers with these changes, that's because I think I belong to that political option, that it's the interest of the citizens. This is civil law, it's about human rights, and I think Serbia could have taken better advantage of this opportunity when we waited so long for this law, but there's an accident that at the head of two ministries, traffic and police, there are people of continuity, which is why this law has too much continuity with the previous one. And I'm telling you, Mr. Mrkonjic, the best way to show that you've changed, that you're for Europe, is to have as little continuity in your policy as possible. I hope this time that comes will prove that there will be less of that continuity and that this law will be better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20029	The word is Jasmine Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20030	Since I see that everyone in this law has come forward, I'd like to say a few more words. I'll do a few things again, but I think it's necessary just because this law that we're making right now is very important. To repeat how important security is, that traffic security itself is a complex system and, as Minister Mrkonjic said - we have a man, we have a vehicle and we have a road. Any of these subsystems that doesn't work, the system doesn't work, and that's why we have devastating consequences, and the most devastating of all are human lives. As I said, it's finally time to put ourselves in the countries that manage traffic safety, and I think that people who have worked on this law, except for showing willingness and responsibility in the work, have also shown the willingness to correct what was wrong, and this is shown by the fact that a large number of amendments have been adopted. These amendments, thanks to Mr Ostojic, I imagine he will be pleased, thanks to his amendment, we have still delayed the application of this law, which was necessary because of certain views, and thus there will be a large role of the media in that period. Otherwise, this law will generally play a crucial and crucial role in the media, as well as in one part of the Ministry of Education, where children of young legs will have to refer to traffic behaviour, and the role of the media here will be crucial in order to prepare in time for all these new items to come and that are adopted by this law. That's why I'm glad that we've arranged part of the stationary traffic with the same amendments. What matters is that this law is applicable, clear and applicable regulation is important, but on top of all that, one overall support in society, which I believe we will have. Once again, for the end, I think it's good that we adopt this law. That's step one. The second step to managing security will be to apply this law and third is to monitor the effects of its application, where we may also get the result that something needs to be changed, and we will also get proof that we did something right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20031	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20032	Mr. Minister, when you spoke and spoke to the MPs of this House, you said I was a surprise to you. I hope I'm not an unpleasant surprise. (Milutine Mrkonjic: A pleasant surprise. I thank you for your compliments. Since we are bringing this discussion to an end, I felt that, as an authorised representative of the party, I had an obligation to give you a few words at the end. I say - in the end, in relation to the Rules of Procedure, according to which we of the SRS really have a pretty strong reserve, which is what it is, restrictive, and which will not allow us to tell the story to you all the way and try to defend our amendments in some way to improve this law. But despite the fact that the act governing the work of this Parliament is the way it is, I think today's picture and atmosphere in parliament really was on a decent level. If the SRS has made a contribution to be that way, and I think it is, we really have reason to be satisfied about it. Of course, we don't think the law is applicable, it might be applicable. And that it is not applicable, that it will be applicable, the government also admitted when it accepted the amendment and delayed its application for six months. The six months you have defined yourself is a deadline within which you believe you will be able to define documentation, i.e. an administration that will allow the law to be applied in one part. In the second part, as far as your sector is concerned, which I may have talked about most through my discussions, which refers to traffic infrastructure, unfortunately, it will take Serbia a long time to ignore all the problems it brings and which, in the years behind us, there was no will or determination to solve in an intense way. I really hope, Mr. Minister, that you're aware of the words you've said about what you're planning to end by the end of the year. When I say that, I think you're aware of the economic and general social opportunities we're in. The job you say you will do by the end of the year, if you do, we in the SRS will be satisfied, because it is in the interest of citizens, general and social and economic interest, and also in the interest of implementing and implementing this law that we discussed today. As far as the SRS is concerned, we say the law is not good enough, but in any case, it bounced off the opportunities we have in Serbia today. Perhaps, as you said, in those six months we will be able to further discuss and improve what you will adopt and what you will vote for. If that's the case, we'll be happy again. As for the SRS and the discussion of the traffic safety law, we are satisfied that we have sent a message to the public that we are ready to be absolutely constructive, because we are ready to overcome ideological and political barriers and differences when it comes to the general social interest. As far as we're concerned, we respect that you, as a representative of the government, appreciate it, but we will be very happy and happy if, above all, the citizens of our country respect it and appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20033	Members of the 221st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Transport and Connection Committee has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20034	This is the last amendment I'm going to defend, because all the other amendments are talking about the transfer of jurisdiction, and as far as I can see, the government is not willing to change anything here, and then there's no reason to have a conversation with the deaf. Mr. Minister said the government accepted 81 amendments. I'd like to check that math. Obviously, I'm not familiar with the fact that you've accepted any more amendments. 35 were accepted until this session. At the sitting itself they were accepted, I think, three more. That's 38. You've accepted the amendments to the Committee, I don't know how many of them there were, but it's certainly a sum of less than 81. So I'm interested in the Minister telling us in the end which amendments have been accepted. This is about an amendment to Article 221. It's a member who defines who can be a lecturer of theoretical training. The law says, in point 1) ''that it has at least a higher professional training of the traffic profession - the direction of road traffic or high professional preparation of another profession' (means it can be a philosopher, sociologist, historian, etc.) "and at least five years of work experience in the field of traffic security." What's a work experience in traffic security if he's a historian, I don't know. We have proposed a healthy amendment – that it has completed the traffic college for road traffic and transport. So this is another amendment that defines what profession, which the university must have completed, which is intended to deal with education in the area of traffic. Because, I'm sorry, this is a traffic education. I listed an example of a dentist just now. You know, I like being a lawyer a lot, but I doubt... Here, Mr. Vice President is a lawyer – could I, as a mathematician, Mr. Vice President, be a lawyer? I love it. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: difficult.) It's hard, isn't it? That's what I think. In short, I regret to say that the DSS will have to vote against the adoption of such a law this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20035	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic to Article 221. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 224 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 226 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Paja Momcilov and Mirko Munjic submitted the amendments. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 226 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 227 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 227. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 228 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 228 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic to Article 229. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Transport and Connection Committee has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 229 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic to Article 230. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 230, paragraph 1. The proposal for a road safety law, which reads: "Modular and connecting vehicle for training candidates for drivers, when taking part in traffic and when training a candidate for drivers, must be marked in a prescribed manner". In an explanation why the amendment was not accepted, it reads: "The government does not accept this amendment because the amendment of the same content was submitted by the MP Radovan Radovanovic, but accepted by the government." It is clear from the reasons that the Government is discriminating the amendments submitted, and therefore also discrimination against MPs. How else do you explain that the government accepts the amendment of Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic from the ruling coalition, more specifically from the LSV, which was submitted in the same text, with the exact same order of words and stuck in a sentence? Apparently, the government, as soon as it sees in the heading of the SRS amendment, rejects it. The only right thing would be if the government had written that an amendment was accepted, which was submitted in the same text by the MPs Radovan Radovanovic and Zoran Popovic. This turns out that the amendment is exactly the same as the MPs of the ruling majority, and the MPs of the opposition are meaningless. And this isn't the first time, it's been happening very often lately.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20037	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20038	I want something out of protocol without the Veronica complaining. I suggest we accept your amendment or both. So it's a slip. It doesn't matter. We have not accessed this law and our ministry will never access the laws of the political platform. Just know it. Therefore, I suggest we adopt both amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20039	The Committee has not accepted your amendment, but has become an integral part of the text of the law and we will make sure that the voting day is fully clear that it is your amendment, because it is in the same text. During the previous vote several times, amendments to several MPs from different parliamentary groups were accepted. Indeed, it is a practice that we consider to be good. Regardless of the technical problems we may be creating, they can be creative because this is more important. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Transport and Connection Committee is, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 231. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 231st amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 231 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 232 of the amendment, the People's Parliament, Marina Ragush, submitted. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 232 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20040	Article 232 speaks of a driving test and in the sixth position of this Article it is provided that a candidate for a driver who has passed a driver’s test legal person referred to in Article 207(1) of this Act shall issue a certificate within three days of having passed the driving test. The amendment proposes to add after this that it is 'in accordance with the provisions of Article 219'. Article 219 of the draft law states in its third position that a legal person cannot begin training candidates for a driver before a contract under Article 1 of this Article is concluded. So if it can't begin, then it's perfectly logical that it can't even finish training without concluding this contract. This is not addressed to you, Mr. Mrkonjic, but tell your lawyers that the contract is not a tractor, that the contract is not concluded but concluded. You should've dressed this up, too. The government of the Republic of Serbia has said that this amendment does not accept, but the argument is indeed completely out of the context of amendments and beyond the context of Articles 219 and 232 because it says: "The deadline for issuing a certificate on the submitted theoretical exam which the candidate has passed, in the event of the termination of training in that legal person, has been set by the proposed law and cannot be amended by the contract set out in Article 219. A bill of law.' Who was talking about changing this deadline? He says, "In practice so far, this deadline has been set for the appearance of training candidates for drivers that legal persons involved in driving candidates' training in order to keep candidates avoided the issue of these certificates." Indeed, Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment was 164th in a row, probably officials in the government have already tired themselves, which is why the explanation is completely unambiguous, and the amendment really gives legal certainty and in a legal sense improves the text of this law. I believe, Mr. Mrkonjic, that you believe in my legal expertise and experience and that you understand that this amendment has been submitted exclusively as a legal and non-technical editorial of Article 232 of the Law, its position 6, and I ask you to accept this amendment because, as my colleague Ostojić said, we will soon have amendments and additions to this law, convinced that if you accept this amendment, you will have one less problem once you have prepared the amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20041	Members of the 23nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 235 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 235 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 236 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 236 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20042	I suggested that the driver's exam be passed not in front of a licensed interrogator and a police officer appointed by the commander, but in front of a licensed interrogator of the Agency. It was rejected because it is said that this solution would create a higher degree of corruption when passing a driving test, as the exam would take place in front of one interrogator. If I were being cynical, I'd say this solution would cost the exam. Now he's got two members, so I think it's more expensive. But I don't want to be cynical. I took a driver's test in America, only one interrogator controlled me, and he's not a cop, not even close to a cop. If you wanted to give the Agency a little bit of meaning, I really think that agency should be significant, then, since we're still on the Committee, no matter how much confusion because of the secretary, in the democratic atmosphere, you could argue, say, "I'll stay, let's have two licensed interrogators." Then I guess it'd be less. One's a police officer, licensed. It's very important that the interrogator determines the Agency, even if it's a licensed police officer. Better than the commander, and you, I suppose, know why.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20043	The 236th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic to Article 236. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20044	On Article 236 of this law, the amendment was submitted by Dragan Todorovic, head of the parliamentary group, otherwise former minister of traffic and ties in the government of national unity, I would say, in the last 20 years, perhaps the best government Serbia has had. I mentioned this because of the fact that, if anything, it might break this amendment to accept you from the college. We have suggested that Article 6 reads: "The candidate has passed the driver's exam if the members of the commission give a positive assessment to most votes on the theoretical and practical exam." In light of which the amendment has been rejected, it states that the Government does not accept this amendment for reasons why the adoption of this amendment would be in direct contrast with Article 236(2), which provides that the commission consists of two members. We have also proposed an amendment to Article 236(2) and provided that the driving test is to be passed before the examination committee consisting of three members, the chairman of the Commission and two interrogators. We predicted that a new position should be added: "The President of the Commission and one interrogator are representatives of the legal person referred to in Article 207(1) and the other is the representative of the competent ministry for traffic or education affairs". What we have been conducting in this amendment is to give priority to the profession again, i.e. in the process of verifying the level of mastered curricula and programmes, priority and primate shall be given to representatives of the traffic profession or the traffic dam in relation to the representatives of the MUP and we consider this to be a truly rational and acceptable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20045	Members of the 237th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 237 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20046	I'll be brief, because this amendment is symbolic. I suggest that in Article 237, in paragraphs 3 and 6, the Ministry of the Interior is replaced by the words "Transport Safety Agency". I think this amendment is the essence of what the LDP parliamentary group wanted to do with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20047	The amendment was submitted to Article 238 by the National MP Marina Toman. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović. Time is available for two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20048	I assume by the amendment of colleague Marine Toman that the SRS will end its participation in this debate tonight. The amendment proposed that Article 238 of point 3 of Article 2 be amended and it reads: "It has at least a higher level of professional training of the transport profession - road traffic, i.e. high professional training of the second profession and at least five years of work experience as a driving instructor. "If you have heard this amendment, it is absolutely in the spirit of all the amendments that we have invested on the last few dozen members. We really wanted to show that science, science, and industry should give priority. I repeat, I think that in a particular segment of this law, more powers were given to the MUP than should be given. We have no bad intentions with that attitude, but we consider it a priority profession, compared to those involved in the driver training process. We're glad if, I repeat, we've contributed to the promotion of this law. We wanted to be constructive, we thought this really required political consensus. The SRS is ready to work with you again, with representatives of the government or with members of this parliament or bodies, whenever there are similar laws on the agenda, of vital importance for all of Serbia and for all of us in Serbia. We would like both the assembly majority and the executive power in Serbia to take this example and to contribute in a constructive way in the future, to make together the best legal solutions, which, I repeat, will again be in the interest of citizens, not in the interest of individuals or groups. I say once again, the SRS feels that it has made a contribution to defining this law to be better than the executive authority sent it to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20049	Members of the 238th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20050	This amendment has not been accepted by the Transport Committee, and I will now address myself purely professionally. Here it was required, in the amendment, that exclusively graduate road engineers be those who will be interrogators. I'm sorry Professor Shami isn't here, and I'll say next. When you pass him first, math 1 and 2, then you're welcomed by mathematical probabilities and statistics, and a lot of tests by the end of the year, it doesn't occur to you that one day you're an interrogator and that you're working at a school, but you want that knowledge that you've acquired to design traffic, roads, much bigger things you get in college. Therefore, since people of machine and legal professions are involved in making traffic safety laws themselves, they should also be given a chance to work and be interrogators, as we comrades do not have enough to do this job at once. In doing so, I doubt anyone's idea of ending this college and being an interrogator someday. Like I said, he wants to do his engineering work. I am in favour of raising the level of education of all people who do research, it's quite fine, but it really should give other people a chance, because they still have experience. I doubt any traffic engineer could be such a good interrogator, especially for the 'C' and 'D' categories.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20051	On Article 238 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 238 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 240th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 246. The Transport and Connection Committee has withdrawn the amendment. The 254th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 255th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 256 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic submitted together. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 263 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Transport and Communications withdrew the amendment to Article 266 and the amendment to Article 267. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 270. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 273. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 275. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 278. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 282 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Transport and Connection Committee is, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment, with correction, to Article 283. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. Has the proposer's representative come forward on the amendment's correction? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20052	We accept the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20053	Thank you. To Article 286. The Transport and Connection Committee has withdrawn the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Urosevic to Article 286. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 296. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic to Article 296. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Chapter XIX. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 302. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 306 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 310th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić to Article 322. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20054	I think this article is one of those problems, as are Article 3 and Article 42. I really suggest that you throw out the record of the misdemeanor as a credible document proving the execution of the offence. You're here saying he can argue in court, but you understand what kind of trouble you're going to make for the drivers, because the judges are going to believe it. On the other hand, it's really a lot of authorities for the police. 13 years ago, I had a car accident in America. I'll tell you in two minutes. Some young men flew off the back road in the morning, passed the stop sign and hit my car. I was hurt, a woman also, a car destroyed... The police came in five minutes and made an insight. Based on that insight, the insurance company of this culprit paid me for the damage to the vehicle, and it was total. We had a dispute over pain and suffering, injuries, hospital expenses, lost earnings, etc. And we went to court. When I told my lawyer that naively -- come on, call those cops, the way I look at the paperwork, there's no insight. And it was clear from the insight that he was guilty, because the insurance company paid on that basis. Normally, not just on that basis, they talked to their security guard, who said, yes, I went through the stop, I'm guilty. You know what my lawyer told me? He smiled and said, "Well, how can this be evidence in court?" I'm saying, why can't there be evidence when there's evidence that they're paying my insurance? In court, a lawyer tells me then, there can't be a witness to someone who wasn't an eyewitness to the accident. And the cops weren't eyewitnesses because they came five minutes later. The fact that they wrote that report from whom it was clear who was to blame could only be true of the insurance company. The judge didn't see that log. And you here, in fact, are giving a cop a verdict. Knowing how judges are, 99% will accept, and that one will be tormented. That's why I think it's a very awkward member, and I suggest you think carefully about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20055	The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment, with corrections from 21 and 22 May 2009, to Article 325. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee believes that this amendment, with a correction from 21 May 2009, is legally possible. The proposer's representative has not made a statement on the corrections since 21 and 22 May 2009, and the Legislative Committee on Corrections since 22 May 2009. I ask the motionary's representative to make a statement as to whether he accepts the corrections. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20056	Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20057	Thank you. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment, with amendments from 21 and 22 May 2009, to Article 326. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee believes that this amendment, with a correction from 21 May 2009, is legally possible. The proposer's representative has not made a statement on the corrections since 21 and 22 May 2009, and the Legislative Committee on Corrections since 22 May 2009. I'd like to ask the Proposer's representative to make a statement on whether he accepts the corrections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20058	Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20059	Thank you. The 326th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment, with corrections from 21 and 22 May 2009, to Article 327. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee believes that this amendment, with a correction from 21 May 2009, is legally possible. The proposer's representative has not made a statement on the corrections since 21 and 22 May 2009, and the Legislative Committee on Corrections since 22 May 2009. I'd like to ask the Proposer's representative to make a statement on whether he accepts the corrections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20060	Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20061	Thank you. Members of the 327th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 328. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do we have a report on the amendment of the Transport and Communications Committee to Article 328? No, I don't. ( ) Proposer's representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20062	The entire amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20063	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković to Article 330. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Velimir Ilic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 334. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant's representative did not make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20064	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20065	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic to Article 334. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 335th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Transport and Connection Committee is, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 335. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 341. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Proposer's attitude?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20066	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20067	Thank you. Members of the 341th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Transport and Connection Committee is, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 342. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. What's the position of the promoter?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20068	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20069	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) For a stenogram, for amendments to which the Legislative Committee has been declared, which was adopted by the Proposer during this session, with the applicant of the Transport and Connections Committee, I would ask that the voting day should include the entry into force of these amendments as an integral part of the draft law. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 343. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is possible. What's the position of the promoter?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20070	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20071	Thank you. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 345th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20072	Of course, I will not defend the amendment, as I promised, only to ask one question to the honourable Mr. Minister – will he tell us once we have finished with the amendments whether he has adopted any other amendments to the opposition because he has announced such a thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20073	The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment, with correction, to Article 348. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. Please refer to the amendment-correction Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20074	Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20075	Thank you. I find that the amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 352. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'd like to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20076	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20077	Thank you. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The transport and communications committee shall, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted an amendment to Article 353. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'd like to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20078	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20079	Thank you. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic to Article 353. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does Minister Milutin Mrkonjic's representative want to give the final word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20080	Just to answer Mr. Shami. I said, now we've gathered here, 71 amendments are accepted from 244. Are you satisfied? (Zoran Shami, from the place: I didn't. All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20081	National MP Zoran Ostojić wants a word. The time at your disposal is one minute and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20082	One suggestion, just in a minute. My amendment was accepted to apply the law in six months, but it is no longer my amendment but the Committee's amendment. I think Mr. Shami, among other things, is showing dissatisfaction with that. But it doesn't matter. I advise you, since it's too late -- all media deadlines have passed, and besides, the media is showing interest in how much the ruling majority shows, so it's none of that -- that tomorrow you're making an emergency application statement, because of this last member, that people don't think it's going to start tomorrow. You'll be transferred much faster and more extensively than we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-22-0.u20083	I'm concluding a search of the Safety of Traffic Bill on the Roads in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes today's work. The assembly session continues on Monday, 25 May 2009, at 10.00 hours, with a debate on the 2nd and 3rd item of the agenda, which was decided by the Assembly on a joint principled search. These are the draft laws on general product safety and the proposal for a law on electronic trade. Thank you.
