ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29834	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 100 MPs, and in order to determine precisely the number of MPs in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 83 MPs at this point, and there are no conditions for the start of the session. We'll continue, or we'll begin session at 11 o'clock. [[After break – 11.05 p.m.]] Based on the official record, there are a hundred of us, and in order to accurately determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Milica Radovic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Đuro Peric and Biljana Korac-Hasanovic. I would also like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, also called for the meeting to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of the Interior, Zorica Kasalica, Head of Administrative Affairs at the MUP and Slobodan Nedeljkovic, Head of the Ministry of Information Technology at the MUP. Also, on the 22nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Single Election List, I called for the session, apart from Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, to be attended by Zoran Petrovic, an assistant minister. We move to the 21st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF TRADE IMPLEMENTS You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You've received a report from the Defence and Security Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and that shall be: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Nov Serbia Group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 37(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Group of the SRS, in the debate on item 22 of the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, will be represented by the MP of the People's Republic of Rade. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents. Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, does he want a word? Yeah, just sign in. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I have issued an opinion on the Committee, and I will take the word after the minister. Only the reporter takes the word first, and then gives it to you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, there is a draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents in the assembly procedure. At first, I would just like to remind myself that the Law on travel documents began to apply on 9 April 2008, so before the new government of the Republic of Serbia was formed. Article 53. The law lays down that passports should be issued before that date until the deadline set out in that amendment and for the longest period until 31 December 2008. Due to technical inability, the reception of requests for the issue of new biometric passports began a little later, on July 7, 2008, in all the MIP's district police administrations, and in diplomatic and consular representations, on 1 November 2008. Since this delay occurred at the beginning of the issue of new passports, at the end of 2008, the amendment of the Law extended the importance of passports in the old form until 31 December of this year. I would like to point out that around 1,250,000 biometric passports have been issued so far, that the time of their release is reduced to three to 15 days from the day of application, regardless of the 30-day legal period, if the application is submitted to the regional police administration, or 60 days, if submitted in the DKP. However, a number of our DKPs are not yet technically equipped for the acquisition of biometric data, which is why our citizens who apply there are waiting several months for the production of biometric passports in the country and their delivery abroad. These individuals are so relieved that, if upon arrival in the country, a request for a passport is submitted to the competent police department, their demands are resolved as urgent, within 48 hours, so that passports can be taken over while they are staying in the Republic of Serbia. However, the issue of issuing passports to our citizens who will not come to the Republic of Serbia by the end of this year should be resolved until they are subject to passports. Taking into account the prescribed validity of passports in the old form by the end of this year and, objectively, the inability for all those seeking to issue biometric passports within this time-limit, and so as not to produce major consequences for our citizens abroad whose passports abroad serve as an identification document, passports on the old form are proposed to remain in force until 31 December of next year. This is, by the way, a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs whose jurisdiction is the diplomatic and consular representations. This is also the reason why it is proposed to pass this law by emergency procedure. The second example for amending this law refers to the period of validity of passports issued to persons under the age of 14 who are now issued a passport for two years. We propose that the period of validity of passports issued to persons up to three years of life be extended, from two to three years of age, to five years of life, because of the rationalisation of cost of production, which creates savings to both the Republic of Serbia and citizens, with respect for the physiological changes of the person at that age, and all in order to improve the safety of citizens and to prevent human trafficking. The proposed solution is otherwise already known in parallel legislation. I would like to point out that, from 14 April 2008 to today, a million and 162 thousand new ID cards have been issued. At the same time, the MUP has been allowed to submit requests for a new ID card and for a new passport, and it is suggested to citizens that both documents are changed simultaneously, in order to provide both documents with one arrival and with the same documentation. Working hours have been organized in all police departments from 8am to 20pm, as well as on Saturdays, and about 400 places for the collection of biometric data have been installed. Most passports were issued during the summer period, during vacations, so 143 thousand new passports were issued in July. In October, 92 thousand 592 passports were issued, saying that interest fell through the end of the annual holidays. We have been informed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the equipment for the collection of biometric passport data has been installed in 31 diplomatic and consular offices in Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland, France, USA, Canada, Australia, the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Denmark, Czech Republic, Montenegro, Russia, South Africa and England. A total of 44,500 requests have been received in diplomatic and consular offices. Since the installation of equipment in diplomatic and consular offices has gone gradually and slowly, a number of citizens staying abroad, according to data from the Foreign Ministry, has not yet been replaced by passports. It is therefore proposed to extend the period of validity of passports in the old form until 31 December of next year. By the Ministry of Interior, during the past period it has been possible to issue passports by emergency procedure during the time these citizens stay here in the country, within a few days, during Christmas, Easter, New Year's holidays and vacations, which is a large number of citizens and used. Since December 1st, the chip of a new biometric passport will also contain a fingerprint. So our country will be among the first in the world to contain this security segment. I would also like to say that issuing new biometric passports is one of the most significant factors in visa liberalisation. Passports are no longer issued in the old form, only the period of validity of passports is extended, due to citizens abroad who will obviously not be able to extract new passports by the end of this year. On the other hand, I would like to say that this figure of a million and 250 thousand people who received new passports, approximately, is the figure that was used in the earlier period for the total number of citizens in Serbia who had even had passports. Given that passports continue to be issued on one fixed average of 80-90,000 passports during the month, it is obvious that the number of citizens in Serbia who will have a passport will be much higher than it has been so far. Also, from January 1st and perhaps earlier, Serbian citizens will likely be able to travel to EU countries, i.e. Schengen space, without Schengen visas. This, in practice, means that this right will be made possible for all who have new biometric passports. So visa liberalisation won't apply to holders of old passports. With that in mind, and given that it will not compromise visa liberalisation, we have proposed this proposal to enable our citizens to replace the old passports for new ones without any major problems and in the following year. I'd like, in the end, to say that the M.O.P. is equipped to receive up to eight thousand passport applications a day and make as many passports as possible. In any case, it is proposed to amend two members of the existing law. Given that there have been some amendments that speak about some other members, this was not the subject of consideration during this change. On the other hand, it is quite possible that this period for the validity of the old passport may be valid, as some amendments here have been proposed, for a while longer, but we felt that at this point, precisely because of the need to replace the old passports as soon as possible, we should not go to this extension. Also, there have been some amendments that speak of the fact that for children up to three years of age, the passport remains valid for two years, given the possible change in physical appearance. We went towards reducing citizens' need to often change documents, as we suggested that the validity of ID cards not be five years, but ten years. But given the technological solution and the legal solutions that followed before I came to the head of the MUP, which, of course, I couldn't influence at the time, this question is not possible until this technological process is closed, at least when it comes to ID cards, which are supposed to be valid for five years. Our intensity is that, over time, when these systems are perfected, the ID card is valid for 10 years, so that as little people as possible, we can burden them with administrative affairs, or by changing documents. So I urge you to vote in favour of these amendments and additions to the law, with one conclusion – that this is one of the very important and that may be the first block of issues related to visa liberalisation, so the issue of document security. The passport Serbia currently has is assessed by the European Commission, the European Commission's expert missions, the very procedure for issuing passports, as high-quality and absolutely in line with all the security procedures that exist in the EU, which is also one of the conditions for obtaining visa liberalisation. In any case, to solve the problems that citizens have abroad, which they do not need a new passport in this period, because it is mainly about people who already have Schengen visas, who have both work permits and residences, etc., this is about a proposal that is motivated by them not to stop them from validating passports until they get conditions for issuing and obtaining a new passport. Accordingly, I call on you to vote in favour of this amendment to the Law on travel documents, which is exclusively intended to solve basic problems, life problems, arising from the possession of travel documents, above all, for our citizens living abroad. The second part of the amendments and the addition of the Law refers to facilitating the procedure and extending the period of validity of passports for persons below 14 years, as the current passport law was valid for two years, and we felt that those persons under the age of 14 did not necessarily need to change passports every two years. I call on you to vote in favour of this amendment and the addition of the Law, because this is not about political issues, it is exclusively about the interests of citizens, who in these problems due to their arrival by the end of this year, when the period of validity of the old travel documents expires. I thank and call for your support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29836	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The chairman and rapporteur of the Defence and Security Committee, Mr Dragan Todorovic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are forced to attend a new rerun, as is happening to us by watching a TV program. Unlike the TV program, this is much, much more expensive. We already had a chance to discuss this law last year, but we'll talk about it when the time comes. First of all, I'd like to refer to problems related to the Defence and Security Committee. I assume you've had the opportunity to hear various information about the work of this committee in the means of public information. First of all, this refers to the inability to hold a session of the Defence and Security Committee. Before the last session, the Defence and Security Committee tried unsuccessfully, on five occasions, to hold a session. Unfortunately, we failed, because the ruling majority is unable to secure the quorum. For the first time, it was about a set of laws, when the Committee had no opportunity to hold a session because the ruling majority had not come to that session. After that, a session of the Defence and Security Committee has been scheduled four times, related to this proposal for a law extending travel documents. Unfortunately, all four times the Committee had no quorum. There are a variety of reasons. Perhaps a certain number of MPs for some reason, I mean the ruling majority MPs, don't come to the Committee. Maybe I'm the reason too. But if you take yesterday's, not yesterday's, but the appointment of a session of the Legislative Committee, where there was also no quorum, then there is already a different conclusion – that this ruling majority, from the moment it was formed, has an extremely big problem with the quorum. You are unable to provide a quorum, an elemental thing to function, to function in Parliament, or to function in working bodies. You don't need to look, or go far into the past. Here, the very beginning of this session has been delayed for the same reason. You have reduced the possibility, or number of MPs to be present at the beginning of the session, to one third, and you are not able to provide it either. Let's get back to the work of the Defence and Security Committee. There is a serious problem with the work of the Defence and Security Committee. On this occasion, I shall also inform the President of the Assembly, as well as the Minister of the Interior, the First Vice-President of the Government, given the fact that he was the chairman of this committee at the time. He's not foreign to matter, and I assume he's quite familiar with the work of the Defence and Security Committee. My guess is, I don't insist that it's true, that the biggest problem in the work of the Defence and Security Committee is my insistence on certain things, or on the obligations of the Defence and Security Committee regarding its function as civil control of the Security Service. I suppose the minister will agree that this is one of the most important functions that the Committee should have. What I suppose should be common is that the ruling majority, because it is the one that allows by its number, enables that civilian control of the Defence and Security Committee. I must say, unfortunately, we are not in a situation, or that the Committee is not in a position to provide its role, its most important role, because there is no will of the ruling majority that this work done by the Defence and Security Committee is being carried out. There are some things that need to be cleared up. Madam Chairman, since I've given my opinion, I'd continue, if you wouldn't interrupt me afterwards. (President: Here you go, Mr. Todorovic. () What is the essence of the problem here? The problem is that in 2001, three actions were carried out by the then Security Service – 'Shumadi', 'Swords' and 'Cactus'. We have an indisputable fact, which was brought out by the director of the BIA, that these actions were carried out against the law. Mr. Minister, I assume you have at least partially some information regarding these actions and some of your comrades have been the subject of these actions, so I assume you should be interested in what happened during these actions called "Cactus", "Swords" and "Shumadia"? Here is the question – why does the ruling majority not allow the Committee to get acquainted with these three actions, first of all, to know how these actions are allowed to be implemented? You, Mr. Minister, I assume you know that the order could have been given by the Home Secretary, the then Chief of State Security, and that could have lasted, I think, seven days without the Supreme Court's decision. After that, the decision had to be made by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has made no decision. It's an indisputable fact. So the law is broken. Now, let's see, if we could get into a situation where we could get data in the BIA, with all the security measures that would be applied so that the data we could get didn't come to the public, but we'd be familiar with MPs and oppositions and positions. I think it would be much more interesting if MPs of the position came to that data than MPs of the opposition. First of all, we'd come up with a fact that would allow us to find out who ordered those three operations? Then we'd be able to figure out how many total faces and what faces are covered by these operations. What is particularly important, we could come up with another very interesting situation, i.e. knowledge, to see who is the user of this information. Because, you know, when an action is carried out, there's a goal. But if, according to some of my knowledge, in these operations or groups covered by these three actions were also the highest former politicians or officials, then officials in the highest possible places, as well as people from the underworld, the question arises – what is the binding tissue, what is the link between the former political summit, then the political summit and the people from crime? We'd come up with these facts, and what's particularly important is that we'd come up with a fact about who used this information, because when information is collected, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done. It's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done. It comes to some conclusions and we see who needs it. This would in some ways enable it to move forward, to launch that first step of abuse of the security service for political reasons. The main role of the Security Committee and the objective is to prevent the abuse of security services for political purposes. I guess we shouldn't have a dilemma here. You have prevented this first step and thus prevent security services from being abused. Here, I have an indisputable fact that some people in my closest environment are being monitored and, of course, I'm going to make that information public, and I'm going to ask for the opportunity to get that information, but since you didn't want to get the information that would help you, I'm stressing it again, about some facts about what's going on around Zoran Djindjic, then I have every reason to doubt that in this case you're going to show good faith to finally put yourself under civil control of Parliament, or the Defence and Security Committee. Then I come to some relatively correct conclusion, i.e. To doubt that you don't want that information to come up because someone's afraid of what we'd find out, because it's just amazing that there are certain dilemmas in the public, they're becoming certain stories, and that maybe, I don't say for sure, but maybe that information would help clear things up completely, and maybe you're afraid of it. Maybe your goal is not to clear it up, not to know everything that's been going on. I'm telling you, we'd find out some things, though, and we'd have insight into how the state security services were being misused. Here, logically conclude, don't let me impose an opinion on you, but if it is possible for the service to be misused at that time in 2001 and directly followed by Zoran Djindjic, what are you doing today, or what have you been doing since 2000? How many times have you abused these services, or do you abuse them all the time, or do you not abuse them at all? We have no insight, and how can we have insight when you don't allow it? You simply will not allow the Committee on Defence and Security, or Parliament, to put the security services under control. It's obvious, since 2001, there's been a struggle against security services, who will control security services from military to civilian. For a time, it was distributed to two parties within the DOS, but now it's all in the hands of the DS. It's normal for you to be responsible, on DS, for the fact that we still don't have civil society, democratic society. You can laugh and wonder as much as you like, you failed the first exam, on the first exam you should pass; you did not pass it, and the responsibility is on you. I'm sure, Madam Chairman, or President of the Assembly, that this should, in some ways, be a warning to you to put your authority through your party, which is a coalition partner, because I assume you're not involved in this. Why would you bear the consequences or pay the bill, which will one day come out, for the abuse of security services and in that previous period, and in this period since you've been in power? In particular, I think that the interior minister, given the work he is doing, should make a special effort and, as the first vice president, ask his coalition partners, and you were also president of the Defence and Security Committee, you know how important it is for our country, for this Parliament, that the Committee begin to do its job and finally get the chance to control the security services, both the VBA and the BIA, so that they are not abused by the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29838	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. You used your time as a reporter and based on your own opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29839	I thought I had a little bit left, but okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29840	The presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, now have the word, and that is from fewer, to more. Please respond. Does a representative of the PUPS Parliamentary Group want a word? (No) Legislative minority groups? (No) New Serbia's parliamentary groups? (No) LDP parliamentary groups? (No) SPS-JS parliamentary groups? (No) You want to? Just sign in, Mr. Rose. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29841	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, we today have on the agenda a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on travel documents, one question which is, above all, a technical character, which should help the citizens of our country who have applied for a biometric passport. As we have heard from the interior minister, this applies, above all, to those of our citizens and citizens who are staying abroad and whose demands cannot be processed within the deadline defined by the previous legislative proposal. It's more than 45 thousand such demands. What we have in this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents is a kind of rationalisation, since it allows people up to 3 years of age to get a passport on a three-year-old period, to get a passport from three to 14 years old, and to have a passport from 14 years of age to ten years, which is an exceptional rationalisation and cost reduction, both for the citizens of Serbia and for the state of Serbia. What is an impressive indicator, is that in these years, practically, more than a million and two hundred thousand passports have been issued, that all biometric conditions have been respected and that is one of the reasons that brings us to the lobby of this visa liberalisation. It is one of the benefits that Serbian citizens expect from this time on European integration, and, above all, confirmation of the work of the ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Interior and all of those people and officials in the competent service who, from eight in the morning to 20 o'clock, even on Saturdays, received these requests for the issue of new passports. In parallel with this, more than a million and a hundred thousand ID cards have been issued and, in that sense, a process that represents a technical precondition that was put before us when this government began to function, which is satisfied and brings us into a position that already now, on the 12th of this month, MEPs are considering the topic of visa liberalisation for the countries of the Western Balkans. After that, on 30 November, if I am not mistaken, the Council of Justice and Home Affairs of EU member states should make a final decision on visa liberalisation and so on. the white Schengen for the Western Balkan countries, as well as our citizens. Someone's going to say it's a psychological satisfaction. I think this is just the first step towards a further European integration process. Of course, we have shown that by meeting the requirements and preconditions set up by our country to round up this process of European integration, it also gets a certain benefit, not as a state, but, above all, in view of the fact that citizens will be made it easier to go to all EU countries. What is the subject of the amendment and addition of the Law is the fact that there are a number of our citizens whose biometric passport should serve as an identification document in countries where they live, outside our country. It is therefore quite rational for this deadline to be extended for another year, so that all those who are interested in exercising the right to issue a personal travel document, this right and achieved, with full capacity. It is also important that the foreign ministry, which has been in charge of this problem, managed to collect these biometric data in 17 countries in diplomatic and consular representations. I think that the citizens and we here, we all owe thanks to the MUP together, because the legal deadline that's been defined in the country for making travel documents for 30 days, and in practice it turns out to be solved, on average, in 15 days. As for the requirements coming from abroad, by our citizens, the expected number of days is 60 and in a rare number of cases, that deadline is being breached, so in this segment of our path to the EU we have shown, above all, a high degree of responsibility, a high degree of adaptability, a high degree of power to do what is put before us as a request in the best possible way. I'm talking about the government of the Republic of Serbia, the resolution ministry and the ministries that are responsible for this trip. That is why I am sure that both the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs of EU member states will make adequate decisions, which will allow the first, let me say, a manifestation step, which is very important for both our citizens and our country, in order to continue this path towards the EU. That's why I'm calling you, of course, on behalf of the SPS-JS Group, and I want to point out that we will vote in favour of the amendment and addition of the Law on travel documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29842	Thank you, Mr. Rose. The word is made by the president of the Group of MPs, Forward Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29843	When the Government of the Republic of Serbia told us that one of the conditions for joining the EU is that we have biometric passports, it was an excuse for all of us to invest certain funds of the family budget in issuing new documents; none of us doubted that it could happen with the old passports not only traveling, but also to get visa liberalisation on the old passports. So when you explained why you're taking extra money out of our pockets, you said you couldn't discuss visa liberalisation without it. It is now said that perhaps we could get visa liberalisation to St. Nicholas, although we have not finished the job of issuing new documents without which the EU's borders cannot be crossed. That is one aspect, so I would ask that you no longer deceive the citizens of Serbia and not tell the truth, but to tell the truth, whenever you have a motive, to tell us what the motive is, and then to discuss the real motive, not the unreal, or the false motive. On the other hand, here you're justifying us by the number of, as you say, 40 and a few thousand citizens who are currently living abroad, who have not arrived, because of the disorganization of the MUP and MIP, to get new passports with biometric data. The question is, what would they do abroad if we respected the legal deadline? I'm interested in whether it's Albanians and Serbs from KIM? Are they just Albanians from KIM? How many Albanians from KIM have applied for a new biometric passport? How many new biometric passports have been issued to Albanians with KIM? What kind of protocol have you signed regarding travel documents, or is it possible that you are not showing us this protocol because in it, Kosovo and Metohija are finally separated from other parts of Serbia and is this whole period of a year, which you are still asking us to grant you because of our, you say, disorganization, in fact, the time you buy to find out what will finally become of the citizens of Serbia living on KIM? These stories of technics are already driving the people's MPs and the people a little crazy. The Statute of Vojvodina, which is unacceptable, is technically being completed, and is then acceptable, so the Prime Minister, rather than boasting that he has agreed with half of Serbia, with representatives of opposition parties who attack the statutes, boasts that he has agreed with Nenad Canka and is making a press conference out of it. A strong deal, to agree with Nenad Canka, and Serbia should observe the press conference. So, I'm interested in what's true in this whole story, and are we MPs ever going to know the truth about this Serbia? What's cooking around biometric passports? How will the Serbs from KIM get biometric passports? What passports will Albanians from KIM, or all those citizens of Serbia living in KIM, and not recognise Serbia as their own country, already have their own state -- independent Kosovo, with which passports will they travel? Do you issue biometric passports? Do they look for them in embassies, say, Zurich, where they're probably the most? Has the EU accepted that we are still receiving us with our old, ancient books from your first governments, although we have not met the conditions that are most important, which is to ensure full identification, that the countries in which our citizens are entering, and we are not a member of the EU, are fully sure that our passports are being entered by our citizens, those who are not criminals, those who are not wanted, those who are not engaged in trafficking, those who are not involved in drug trafficking, those who are international terrorists? How do we prove in our old form and old data that this citizen is absolutely clean before God and before the law, so that he can enter the EU? Let me remind you, you've really been the only reason for the release of new passports that we can't be freed to travel without Schengen visas. All of a sudden, he can do it now. How did it come to be possible, or what you accepted, to what did you agree? What is KIM for a service that issues biometric passports? What kind of instruction does an officer, an official, who photographes there with that pointless apparatus when a person living in the territory of KIM shows up? Will the EU recognise a Serbian passport for the citizens of KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29844	Thank you. Do the representatives of the G17 Group want a word? (No) The DSS MP group, do the representatives want a word? (Yes) Mr. Dragan Shormaz, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my predecessors have said, for the second time we have on the agenda, a year ago, and now again, to amend and supplement this law, we extend the importance of blue passports, old passports, and essentially...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29846	Mr. Shormaz, I'm sorry, but I don't have the authority, or I don't have the paper by which you're authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29847	It's been lowered this morning, so I've been informed by our secretariat.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29848	Okay, we'll check it out, but in case you're not, I'm asking you to formalize it after your participation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29849	I was checking this morning, and I was told at the secretary's office that there was a downsizing. I checked it myself, on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29850	You want again, and for the time being, to sign up, to have your time running out from the beginning. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29851	As far as the amendments and additions to this law are concerned, we have heard that technical inability is the reason for this delay, as I understand from the Minister's statement. So, the most reason not to issue passports with us, in our country, but in consulates, because there was obviously not everything ready for all those who needed this new biometric passport to be issued, which tells us again that the problem was with those who today represent power in Serbia, among those who today are the Government of the Republic of Serbia and who must, and technically, do these things. What did this government do? Its mouth is full of visa liberalisation, European integration, and what has this government done along the way? In my speech, I will say what the governments of Vojislav Kostunica have done, and then we can compare what was then done with what was now done in that sense. I'll remind you of one more thing. Since visa liberalisation is often linked, or Schengen accession with European integration, it is not particularly true. A delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly travels to the UK on Friday, where the NATO Pact Parliamentary Assembly is held and, of course, we draw visas. Great Britain is an EU member, but it is not a Schengen member and the UK needs visas. So there are still different situations here. But, well, here is a policy and a mouthful of words – the goal and only the goal, without any practical importance or anything that Serbian citizens can feel in their daily life, entering the EU without need and without work, first of all, reforming the state, strengthening the economy, so that we can really be an equal member of the EU, we're just telling an empty story about entering the EU and nothing else. I'm not surprised, but the citizens of Serbia should know that, because this coalition is headed by Boris Tadic, who is a man of great words, but apparently, from day to day we see, small, or no works. I remind you that the first government of Vojislav Kostunica is a common argument for you, that it is up to the EU to suspend negotiations on Serbia's accession to the EU at one point. I remind you that the reason for this was, apparently, non-cooperation with The Hague tribunal, i.e. non-delivery at that time of four remaining Hague indictees. Meanwhile, we had another government of Vojislav Kostunica, so this government of Boris Tadic, not Cvetkovic, in any case, those who are stronger, after Boris Tadic, in that government and by Prime Minister Cvetkovic, are, in turn, Mr Dinkic and Mr Dacic. That is why I often say that, first of all, it is the government of Boris Tadic, not Mr Cvetkovic. God, and Rasim Ljajic, here, reminds me of my colleague Andric. That's not far from the truth either. I'll remind you that the letter has come down to two Hague defendants. I'll remind you that we have problems here too. Two were not delivered. I listen from officials, from Boris Tadic, and on the other hand, to these mentioned, in exactly the order that the state of Serbia, if it finds out where they are and if they are here, will most certainly deliver them. This was also said in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Why aren't relations with Serbia breaking up today? Why is Serbia not slowing down on this European road today, if the situation is the same? It's the same. He was Brammertz two days ago, we see that the situation is the same. Just because it was necessary to distance Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS as far away as possible from the government, the executive authorities in Serbia, because they knew in the EU that this was the biggest dam to create an independent state of Kosovo on the territory of the Serbian Autonomous province of KIM. I guess that's clear to everyone now. That's the only basic reason, because there's no dam today. Evidence is also a visa liberalisation that is so talked about and now spoken of here; there are mentions, I heard, some terms like 'imposable indicators', etc. Who has done what at visa liberalisation and that Serbian citizens can travel more easily, more specifically, not to EU countries, but to Schengen agreements? EU negotiations with the Republic of Serbia on the conclusion of a visa relief and readmission agreement began in November 2006. On behalf of the EU, negotiations were conducted by the European Commission, while Interior Minister Dragan Jocic led negotiations ahead of the Serbian government. After three rounds of negotiations, in Brussels, on 16 May 2007, a initial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission was initialled to sign an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on 18 September 2007 on visa relief and readmission between the Republic of Serbia and the EU. On behalf of the EU, the agreement was signed by Franco Frattini, European Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs. The document allowed individual categories of Serbian citizens, without biometric passports, to travel more easily to EU countries since 1 January 2008. We spoke in Parliament, though, in that room, we know which categories are referred to: certain groups of students, people who need treatment, business people, etc. We have already made this possible, not by this incompetent government, but by those much more capable before it since 1 January 2008. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified the agreements mentioned on 7 November 2007, when the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia on the Facilitated Procedure for the issue of visas and the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia on the reading of persons illegally staying in EU territory was adopted. The agreements entered into force on 1 January 2008. Without this, there could never be visa liberalisation. So much for who did what, this is the part, and I'm still going to say, there's still a lot that's been done, unlike this government, that hasn't done anything. She only had a job to print passports. She printed them with multiple affairs we saw. It wasn't even transparent where, by any tender, or when, or if there were mistakes, and we know there were errors, both printing and translation, but we never found out how much damage was done in the financial sense of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Again, to say that, according to all the information I have, the Ministry of the Interior is not responsible, but some others who participated in that chain of work, that the minister does not feel called for it, but the government in which he sits is, in any case, responsible for such a thing. The Action Plan also created a working group, led by Minister Jocic, to meet the framework criteria for the liberalisation of the European Union's visa regime with the Republic of Serbia. We have heard on several occasions that this is not a political but technical issue, but I will tell you that the political dialogue between the European Union and the Republic of Serbia on visa liberalisation began in Belgrade on 30 January 2008, when the first meeting of experts from the two sides was held, and the beginning of the dialogue was attended by Franco Frattini, European Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs. The negotiations were continued on 8 February 2008 in Brussels, when the European Commission also created and delivered the 'road map' in which the criteria for lifting the visa regime were specified. When we talk about technical meaning, this is what the law says, I didn't mention that the Law on the Police and many other laws had to be changed, which was all done in the previous period. When we talk about technical affairs, imagine just what extent and importance the technical work Serbia had to do, how much power, skills, will should be to form the border police and the police of the Republic of Serbia to take control of the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which was also one of the conditions for visa liberalisation, because that is the standard of EU member states. When Mr. Dragan Jocic came to the post of minister, I guess before him a pro-European government led Serbia, it absolutely did not exist, nor was it in the previous two governments that ran the DS doing anything. Nothing has been done on this issue, and you, Mrs. Nado, check well, let's say, with Dusan Mihajlovic, who was a minister, or with Zoran Zivkovic, who was Prime Minister. When we compare all of this, the weight of what was done during that period and what was done by the most incompetent government in Serbia's history, led by a man of great words and small works, Boris Tadic, was far greater work done by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, an immeasurably higher one, should not even talk about percentages, perhaps 80-85%. During this period, it worked positively, in a certain sense, only the Ministry of the Interior and had a disturbance from other government factors in the matter, I will remind you once again, of the printing of passports and the affairs surrounding it. However, it is possible that this government was doing something else that was needed to achieve visa liberalisation, but at this point we cannot determine. For example, was it really necessary to sign this protocol on any co-operation with Eulex between the police of the Republic of Serbia and EULEX? We can't know what kind of agreement this is, because he's obviously a secret. It's not published, which means it can't even be read in "The Official Messenger". It's supposed to be signed. What it says, we don't know. On September 16th, I asked that it be delivered to me, as a national MP, in the original text, in English. I didn't get it until today. Was he the reason, could we have a new agreement on customs relations or customs co-operation between Serbia and Kosovo? Good neighbourly relations between Serbia and the countries in the region and Kosovo are often mentioned in the EU. An agreement is being drafted for Kosovo to sign with the EU on the start of Kosovo's EU accession. It is obvious that this was also the reason for everything that has happened in the past few years in Serbia, because the EU is helping, it is seen in the field, by the work of Eulex, every day to create an independent state of Kosovo, and that in Belgrade it needs power that will not bother, but will help. Because how do we understand that we have first and second-class citizens on this issue? Citizens living in KiM can't get a biometric passport there, they have to come to Belgrade, it doesn't matter if they're Serbs or Albanians. I won't say which place the Albanian is from, so he doesn't have any problems there, but an Albanian, young man, who was born in Zemun, whose father lived and worked in Zemun, contacted me, somehow found out my phone number, although it is public, on both the card and the Internet, everywhere, from one place in Kosovo where 100% Albanians are. He doesn't know how to get to Zemun, he asks if he can go anywhere. He can't come, he's probably afraid of his own. He wants our passport, and he doesn't know and he can't come to Belgrade, and there's nowhere down there to pick it up. All personal documents during Hitler's occupation of KIM could be raised by our citizens in a place where they live, I can't today. On this issue, our citizens in KIM, whether it is the Serbs or whether it is Albanians, are discriminated against. They're being discriminated against and you know why. It is false, the EU's hypocritical story is that this is because crime has to be controlled. We keep saying that it's a criminal state, called state, all the time we're saying that this country is being run by criminals, all the time we're saying that they're leading drug lords who sell heroin in Europe. The fourth has become a mob in power in the world. If all this is happening, then how can the EU support the creation of one such state? Is that why you control the issue of passports to Albanians? No, that's not true; the only truth is that they didn't want 200-300,000 Albanians to take the passports of the Serbian state, because it would be proof that they recognise the state of Serbia, not some independent state of Kosovo there. This would be an argument to the state of Serbia, and we took our own opportunity for such an argument, because we agreed in negotiations with the EU to give them these passports in a difficult way. In this way, we put the state of Serbia again in an even harder position to defend territorial sovereignty and integrity. Those are the things that follow this agreement and that's what needs to be said. It is not disputed that our citizens should travel all over the world, not only to EU countries, freely, with their passports, but we have now heard these data about how many citizens took a passport, about as many as there were blue ones. If we count who has everything right, with our citizens in KIM, it's a little over 10%, maybe 12-15% of citizens took passports, 85% didn't take passports. How can I take it? The 100 euros have dropped their average salary in Serbia since you were the government, which means the average pension. Hundreds of thousands of people have lost their jobs so far, 63,000 companies are in a blockade, plus a new one and everything that's going to happen. Next year – frozen salaries and pensions. What do they need passports for? Where are they going? They don't have the money to come from Zaječar to Belgrade, not travel to Paris. Did you say how much a glass of wine, lunch in Paris, airport tax? We're not gonna talk about how they need these passports to go to Segedin and Timisvar, are we? That's where our citizens were. This isn't about work, it's about being honest. With this visa liberalisation, you can't go to those countries and ask for a job. There are various other legislations in these countries that regulate even some work visas, such as England, Ireland, etc. There, if you go to that 90 days a year, as much as you're allowed, and you're looking for work, working on black, you risk getting caught, because there are problems because of the economic crisis, you lose that right, regardless of the biometric passport. Our citizens are supposed to count on it, and they need to know that. This is for a tourist visit, and 85% of the citizens are absolutely not thinking about it. Because how does he think about when these people from Rakovica have trouble coming to Slavia, when it's expensive nowadays and with you in power, let alone someone travels to London, Paris, Madrid, to think about it at all. Of course, it takes visa liberalisation, but we should hear from this government honestly what the price of it was. Did something outside the road map have to be filled out of the official road map? That goes for all of Serbia. Did we really have to meet other conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29852	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Meanwhile, a professional service report has arrived that you are an authorised representative. The president of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an extremely serious proposal to amend and supplement the law, not because of what these changes and additions contain, but because of the problems we are facing and which, as you like to say, show our state and our government, or government. The minister here said that due to some technical inability, approximately, it was to extend the deadline of the old passports again. There are very serious questions about this law and, in general, the functioning of our country. One of the first questions is what we've been asking before, how is it possible that passports don't work in the MUP? Watch the logic, these passports that extend, blue, so early red passports, worked in the MUP. These new, biometric ones, they work at the Department of Money Making. What happened? Is the MUP incompetent, unable to continue this business? These are serious implications. If the MUP isn't capable, then we need to see what the reasons are, technically or humanely. There's no third solution. There may be a third, but these two reasons are most acceptable to me. Personally, I don't think any of the other reasons stand, that the Ministry of Human Resources and Technically was able to do this job. Let's ask ourselves why the Ministry doesn't do it. How did the making of the passport come to be entrusted to ZIN? What are those reasons? What I expected from the minister was to sort of keep the promise he made us last year. You know how much trouble there was with extending this date and the facts about making these passports. You know that from this production, as I recall, ZIN will incasise about five million euros, but why didn't it remain for the MUP, why did it go there? Seems like everyone's forgotten how it went and how it was in our country. One affair doesn't end, another one comes, even bigger, covers the previous one, and so for nine years in a circle. However, I would remind the citizens of Serbia, to remind the minister, although I am convinced that he knows and remembers all these facts. The only thing I expected from the minister was to do a better look at all the passport-making jobs, because the facts say that there have been major problems in this passport-making, or that they are hinting at major problems. First of all, this business involves G17, i.e. Mladjan Dinkić, NB and Banknote Making Office. There have been problems that have shaken our public. You remember the company "Miraž Holding" from Slovenia, some Robert Rotar, who entered this business, and it turns out there are some problems, so he said he would sue, etc. It's interesting this company that got into this business for the first time. I suppose, Minister, that you asked around, but just in case, I'll tell you it's a company from New Town. At least according to those affairs that were in Slovenia, they say he was related to Janez Drnovšek, the first big job he got for making ID cards in Slovenia, and some car stickers, so Janez Janša took it from him, because with them, it seems – whoever comes to power, he provides his companies, and there are commissions. He moved from Slovenia to Serbia and concluded a contract on February 6th 2008, according to an open tender for the making of passports. However, there was a problem, as according to his claims, a change in the contract already took place on 7 April 2008 and an annex was allowed to produce some of the passports abroad to speed up the process. Thus, the production of 120,000 passports began before the arrival of German machines in the Banknote Office. Look at what our country is like and what we're facing. The machines didn't even come and because they didn't come, so our citizens wouldn't suffer because of it, it was ordered to print 120,000 in Switzerland. They say, in July of 2008, the issuing of passports begins. Samples of passports made at the Slovenian company "Miraz" are sent to countries around the world, but instead of the estimated 3,000 passports a day, "Miraz" delivers six to eight pieces a week. Minister, have you dealt with, after all this, the problem of... Who ever made a deal with a company that was unable to do this job in the way it was done, in particular, by making sure that one serious state cannot allow any single moment to come into a position to have a forged passport or the possibility of someone doing one version, another, third etc. As I recall, at the end of 2008, you asked for the making of passports to be in the hands of the MUP, and we supported that request. We thought it was the most natural, safest and safe for our country and our passports. The question arises – why is this not done? I don't know exactly how much the machines cost for the new biometric passport, but I know for a fact that the machines would be paid off and that the M.O.P. would make something of it. Then who was in the interest of this job not getting a MUP? Some information suggests that Božidar Djelic, Mladjan Dinkic and Radovan Jelasic were directly interested, and was operated by Kovnica director Ljubisa Vuletic, manager of the German firm "Millbauer" and the president of the tender commission, Milovan Ignjatovic. They're listed as the culprits, which is why this passport deal came into the situation we've come to. In particular, this company "Millbauer" has been bound by this company since the moment Mladjan Dinkic broke into the National Bank of Yugoslavia with the Kalashnikovs. What's particularly interesting is that the representatives of this German firm have walked there for years without a work permit, and you know what kind of facility it is, what security measures are. But it doesn't seem to bother at all that Milbauer's employees are working at the National Bank of Yugoslavia. It's interesting how this job was taken over by "Miraz" and how Millbauer found himself in a position to become a company that will participate in making new passports. Robert Rotar argues that Ljubisa Vuletic and this president of the tender commission played the main role. He says they're making an ultimate demand of him, since he got it, be careful, because he got a job in the tender as the best bidder, and told him that if he didn't accept "Millbauer" as a subcontractor, he wouldn't give him a guarantee and he wouldn't get a job. As far as you can see from this, he's not very obnoxious. He wants to make a little less money, but what to do. When the brothers are tight, it must be accepted. He accepts this firm Milbauer, but now he becomes their subcontractor. They sign a contract like that. However, since these seem to lack much cheek, they catch and kick Robert. That's where the tarrapans come in now, because the stories start, the charges start. Chuck Rotar says Vuletic's lying, director of Kovnica, because he's right to come out because he didn't give a guarantee, but Robert Rotar says he's going to sue our country. I ask the question, Mr. Minister, is Robert Rotar, I doubt he is, because he doesn't have a lot of arguments behind him, and he knows who he's working with, so he figures he'll get a job later – if he sues them, then there's nothing. After all, you see how Goran Knezevic spent just as he said he was getting, taking the money he was getting from the DS. Then what could poor Rotar do? That's the problem we faced. It is particularly important that Minister Ivica Dacic promised that everything will be examined and that we will get full information about everything that has been happening to us about making passports. It is particularly important that during the debate on the new law, i.e. the extension of the law, last year, we received a firm promise that the deadline of one year is optimal, that there is no dilemma that all passports will be completed, especially because the passport has been hired by Bozidar Djelic. You remember Bozidar Djelic – the one who came with two plastic bags to the aunt, unlike Jelasic, who came with a plastic bag, but therefore bought a villa of, I think, a million and 400 and a few thousand euros. I hope so, Mr. Minister, that you've examined it and that you have good information. When the time comes, to sort of examine it, to end it, not to waste much time. Because, you see, this action of Morava, you arrest, that is, how many of them you arrested -- 2,000, 3,000, swim both to the Danube and Morava, and it doesn't take much here. Arrest 20 of them for starters and things will go better for this country and for this people. When it comes to Mladjan Dinkic, I would remind you, at least so says Rotar, of his pledge to provide him with 200 passports urgently, have you forgotten, for 200 most seen Serbs, the most prominent athletes, public and cultural workers. There are, probably, some of you who got that passport, but it doesn't matter. Why did he need those 200 passports? As I recall, it was a pre-election campaign, and God, who talks about what about white Schengen. As I recall, we should have had a white Schengen for a year. What about that white Schengen? What about God? What about those ten million euros of his, what's his name, is "Meridian Bank"? Yes, it is. I hope, Mr. Dacic, that you've also examined it and that there's no reason why the public should finally not be familiar with it and that we might be in a position to finally face all these things, or the crime they've done. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, and you, gentlemen of the Parliament. I can't tell you everything here, because there are other interesting things for the minister. At that time, the SRS submitted one amendment. We asked that Article 1 be changed – in Article 53, the words "31 December 2008" be replaced by the words "30 June 2009", and we explained this, counting that six months is an optimal time limit for this to end. It is interesting to hear the reply of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the amendment submitted. The government says - the amendment is not accepted, as considering all the conditions for issuing travel documents, under the new travel documents law, the optimal time limit set out in Article 1. The bill of law, then, a year. We think about it a little bit, and we realize that we're getting ahead of ourselves with this first six-month amendment, so we suggest a second amendment. We withdraw this first, we propose the second and we say – that in Article 1 "2009." replace with the number "2010." You know what's interesting? Do we get the same government explanation? It says: The optimal deadline is 2009, not a day up, not down. Now I ask, did the same face answer to one and the other amendment? I really don't understand what it is when it's "optimal" on you, and what isn't? Faced with the facts of what's happening to us, we're resuscitating the amendment, just in case, don't lie to the devil, well, it doesn't cost us anything. Instead of "until 2010.'', let's extend 'to half of 2011', as they say – it doesn't have to use, but it won't hurt either. And our government won't let that happen. He just sent someone to play with the government. There are serious people, taking care of everything. Explains the argument – The Government does not accept this amendment for reasons that this shorter period cannot achieve the purpose of which the provision of Article 2 is proposed. The bill, it's about children's passports, and Article 2 says, "In Article 53, '31. December 2009.", it is replaced by the words ''30. June 2010' The reason is the same. Now let's define what's optimal by government. We're getting into a situation where you play. I guess there are serious people out there, but you're just not able to hide. I'm sure this won't be signed by serious professionals, because this is making fun of the state, making fun of Parliament. Do you see, one thing at a time, what are you doing? "Big Brother" and "Farma" are little children for you. If we had a chance to follow the government's sessions live, or if we heard those phone sessions, Gilas would have completely failed, we wouldn't be watching "Big Brother", everyone would watch Mirko Cvetkovic. Unfortunately, one Cvetkovic and Macek entered history, and this Tsvetkovic, with Canka, will also enter history, in the same way as the one, by causing us enormous damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29854	Mrs. Susana Grubjesic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29855	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, I can't even convince everything Mr. Todorovic said here and what he mentioned, and the science fiction stories I, unfortunately, had the opportunity to read in "Kurir". My question will be addressed to the police minister, to answer and to share with us the knowledge of the possible role and the Institute for the Making of Banknotes, and Mr Vuletic, and Mr Dinkic, and all mentioned in this, as I said, science fiction story told by Mr Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29856	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29857	Mrs Grubeshic, first of all, to thank you. You didn't remember any of what I was saying, if you did, you wouldn't even be asking this question to the Minister. I've been asking the minister all along to tell us the information, not now, because I expected Mr. Dacic to give us this information because I think he was involved in this job, too. To tell us in Parliament, first of all, why didn't the Home Office get that job? I made assumptions, or some reasons. Or it is incompetent, which I doubt, by two basics – that there are no technical options and there are no human resources. But both assumptions are off, because ZIN didn't have technical capabilities either, I'm not getting into whether he had human resources. I'm asking a question -- how can we get into a situation where the M.P.'s been doing passports for the last 60 years and suddenly get shut down from that job? It's budget funds. What are the reasons, my people? Come on, you tell me. What are the reasons? And here I make assumptions. First of all, the commission, the ones who got the job, that's what I'm convinced of. I'm convinced, for nine years you've robbed, you've destroyed the state, first of all, you from the DS, and you from the G17 don't get much behind, because, given how many of you there are, maybe it's too much damage and greater. That's perfectly clear stuff. I expected Ivica Dacic to tell the citizens of Serbia today – the situation with the making of passports was such, such as that and such, and that we should not duplicate this issue. I join your question and again ask Minister Dacic to give us an answer on the full procedure, what was going on here? How could she get a job from a company so she could shut herself out of the business, make a new deal, get that company kicked out? My men, take the moth, and take care of who enters your house. You make a deal with the firm, which you'll throw out in a short while. What does that say about you? He's saying that the reasons and motives of why you got into this business are the ones I doubt, that, above all, they're related to abuses of the positions in which those who decided on the job were.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29858	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29859	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 101st and 104th. I ask the President not to allow slanders, accusations, lies, therefore, to be attacked by individuals on the basis of what someone assumes, on the basis of what someone shouts – keep the thief, in order to remove any responsibility for what he did during the period he was responsible for. We all know very well that someone who has received an apartment from the state while the columns of refugees have fled from all parts of Serbia, when the state renovated that same apartment, has no moral right to call for honesty and to speak on behalf of an honest attitude about others. At the same time, I find it inadmissible without argument to accuse anyone. So it's one thing to ask the question of how something was done, if there is any doubt, and that's why there are ministers here to answer that, but the other thing is to accuse people completely unfounded, without any argument or evidence. That, according to our rules of procedure, is simply not allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29860	The circle of replicas will be completed by giving the word to Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29861	Ladies and gentlemen, you've called the Rules of Procedure, go to Gordana's for extra classes, he'll explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29862	Mr. Todorovic, you cannot communicate with other MPs. You have your word and proceed, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29863	I always have to thank Mrs. Colundji whenever she calls to explain something I wanted. She's the best way to confirm it. Mrs. Kolundjia, in this country, everyone should be in accordance with the law. I explained that you wouldn't allow it, you of the DS. As for those who are most responsible for this, the most responsible bearers are the 'dosmania', and you are the headquarters of this DOS government, therefore, by letter, however you wish, you are the most responsible for this. The fact that you've set your feuds and made it possible for everyone in your feed to do whatever it is they want, I'm not going to go into it. I was only quoting what, even quoting some words, I didn't say to quote, the 2008 Interior Minister of Ivica Dacic, because he was saying this. He remembers that, Hansel Dacic. And he was asking a question -- how it is possible that the MUP would not get the job, even promised to ask for the job to be assigned to the MUP. I just support him in that. And then I supported him, and now I support him. Therefore, Mrs. Kolundjia, it is my right to draw some conclusions. Knowing you, the simplest conclusion is that it's a crime, it's a commission. Because, Mr. Dacic, among other things, I'm guessing the question I asked you is, what about the consalting mob? You know, that's the mob that robbed this country for four billion. In euros, it's something like 60 million; if you take that one square apartment as about 500 euros, we get to the 12,000 apartments that you robbed. Look out, Minister, you'll catch them easily, just the same company. One 20 of them won 80 percent of the privatisations. They robbed Serbia. First of all, Mirko Cvetkovic and his company, not his firm, but the CES Mekon, where he worked, was the director there and was the director of the Privatisation Agency. I expect that a new action, which will be called "Cunami", cannot "Morava", "Morava" is small for these thieves, it must be called "Cunami", at last to pick up these thieves and robbers, to bring them to justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29864	That's enough. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29865	So there's a fundamental difference, which you obviously can't understand, between raising doubts and asking questions, which is legitimate, and what you're doing on purpose, I believe you know what you're doing, which is to name and accuse people of something that you don't have any proof of and that you're using it as an argument for your own political campaign. That's inadmissible. What you can ask as a question, or wonder if it's something legitimate, that's your thing, that's not what I'm talking about. I didn't get you wrong or misread you. You're trying to turn what you said yourself. So I find it inadmissible to accuse anyone in this assembly without any basis and that no immunity can protect you from it, because there are rules, it is the Rules of Procedure, and you must not violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29866	There are no more grounds for replication. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29867	I, Mrs. Kolundjia, don't really understand you. You're talking... (President: Which member of the Rules of Procedure? ) Article 104. You're talking instead of the President of the Assembly that he can't. I assume you're taking the session to the remote. If you are referring to morality, what a moral right you have to speak at all, when you have stated in this House that there are MPs in the first order and second order, that MPs, who, in your second order, cannot, in your opinion, have the same rights as MPs in the first order. You demonstrate it all the time. That's one thing, Mrs. Kolundjia. Nine years in power, tell me the name and last name of one...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29868	Mr Todorovic, you cannot address the MPs, but you can address me, or the president.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29869	I'm sorry. Ask Mrs. Kolundji to state the only name of a member of the SRS that he was responsible for abuse of his official position, or for some crime he committed at the time, while, Mrs. Dejanovic, we were in that government of the people's unity, which I am proud of, and did everything to make sure that the problems that the state was facing back then, the state and the citizens suffered the least damage. Those who were against you then, who were until May 2008, and today talk about it, about a non-democratic, or dictatorial regime until 2000. Ask: What morals have you been valued since May, and by May you were the worst possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29870	Thank you, Todorovic. Time's up. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29871	I don't want to pollute anymore, but the truth works, no one in this congregation has ever said that there are MPs in the first and second order. At least I did it. No one in this congregation has ever acted as if there were MPs in the first and second order, and at least I did so. I simply have a need, because of the people who are watching this Parliament and because of the efforts we make to make it an institution of credibility and respect, to say that what is true is true. It is obvious that there is another problem that is causing this kind of controversy here, today, that is, the story that comes from the other side, which is the fact that there is an obvious abuse of the position of the Committee president and there is an undeniable initiative of MPs that requires that the Committee is not being misused for party purposes. They are seeking the responsibility of each board president to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is that the chairman of the board is not a party leader and does not implement party policy in that place, but is implementing a common policy of the assembly. That's what this is really about, in that sense, I'm not going to get any more of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29872	Mr. Shormaz, what's the basis of the call? Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29873	I would, according to the Rules of Procedure, be a member of 104—the dignity of the National Assembly. And then I reacted, if you remember, so now I've answered again. My impression was that, in her speech, Mrs. Kolundji shared the MPs in a similar and unsuitable manner. I'll remind her what she said. She said -- to visit the Dutch Parliament, where we should, as Parliament, convince Dutch parliamentarians that a trade agreement should be defrosted, those who received Serbian citizens' votes for European integration and for European Serbia should participate. She said there was no place for SRS MPs in such a delegation, but literally. Take a stenogram and you'll see it's said. That's when I reacted and asked who voted for them -- Martians or Serbian citizens? The fact is, that's how it was. You're talking empty stories. Citizens see it every day, nothing practical, in practical terms for the lives of Serbian citizens, ever since you've been in power, you haven't done it, and you've been in power for a long time. This is the fourth government of five, in which you are the majority and most influential factor, DS. The fourth government of five since 2000. So you're the most responsible for everything that happens in the state of Serbia, you from the DS, and you have to put up with it when the opposition tells you. Answer the argument. I reasonedly responded and told what the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Dragan Jocic did. Get up and talk about it, please, let's get back to the agenda. Tell me what you did. I say to you: nothing, small, this small, and your mouth is full of visa liberalisation and how citizens will live better. Well, 60% of the 380 euros average salary, for all pensioners there was more, even if you gave them now...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29874	Thank you. Mr. Shormaz, in accordance with Article 100(2), I would like to remind you and all MPs that the MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, which is already indicated in the same session. Mr. Todorovic has already done that. You're trying to argue with the exact same content. Please, I am taking the opportunity to remind all Members of the position of Article 2 100. After this reminder, I will have to react in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29875	It's a line based on a reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29876	No, you weren't mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29877	All right, then, Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29878	There's no basis for replication. You're not offended and misunderstood.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29879	Wait, wrongly interpreted. Whatever you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29880	No, you're completely well interpreted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29881	All right, that's enough of a 27. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, there is an old folk - if the goat lies, the horn does not lie. For something that's a fact and for everything I've said, I'm behind it. Not only for what I said today, but I stand behind all my political views, behind the programme and ideologies of the SRS and behind the ideology of Serbian nationalism. I'll never give it up, unlike you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29882	Mr. Todorovic, the Rules of Procedure can only harm me during the session. You know that well. You can't have sex with Mrs. Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29883	Let me finish. I will read the stenogram, for Serbia's citizens and for the MPs. "In that sense," says Mrs. Kolundji, "this insistence on equal representation of political parties is simply without much meaning." What does that mean? You, Mrs. Slavice, are expert in giving an extremely qualified assessment of what the writer was going to say. So he adds, "Because exactly what they're saying here right now, exactly what they're saying here, is a problem that has caused Serbia to have problems for nine years now." We only partially participated together in these problems, and they are now with you in the coalition. Wait, my people, I really don't understand, if you're accusing someone of something, it can't be because it's useful to you now, now you're over it, you're out of it, you're good red now, and you're radicals, you're still bad, you can't?- I'm sorry. Unlike some, I'm not running away from what I said. I'm staying, but it's about those who aren't...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29884	I warn you, you have no more words. I warn you to behave, as far as the contents of your address to Parliament are concerned, as if you've been given the right to replication. Please don't do this. The contents of your statement were like that. Mr. Shormaz is advertising the Rules of Procedure. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29885	Article 27, Madam Chairman, with a completely different explanation; I am now truly speaking to you. First, I think you're wrong when you say that only you can break the Rules of Procedure and that... Here, listen to Article 104. I don't know what Mr. Todorovic is invited to do when you're bidding here with him while you're holding a session on whether he's a Rules of Procedure. Here, look at the stenogram itself, which is a member, whether it's a replica or what I know. See Article 104, MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. That's why I answered, because I believe that you did not violate the Rules of Procedure, I did not say that you violated it, but precisely Mrs. Hope Kolundji, by speaking today and the day it was spoken of. And point two, "The Members of the People are obliged to address one another with respect." We turn out to be morons here when something's said and she's trying to convince us she didn't say it. That was why I picked up on Article 104, and I think you guys, by Article 27, when you're running a session, you're absolutely wrong when you say that you're the only one who can. And I can break it, and you warned me that I broke the Rules of Procedure because I explained it by the same article. You warned me, so I can, you can't say that only you can break the Rules of Procedure. We can all break it here. If you think he hasn't been broken, here, I ask the Assembly to declare in the voting day that Mrs Nada Kolundjia has broken Article 104. It's the rules of conduct.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29886	Mr. Shormaz, about the dignity of the National Assembly, the assessment of whether it's broken, I say. You have the right to replicas, which are also decided by the chairman. I remind you of Article 100(1): "The MP shall have the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, and immediately after the infringement has been done. '"Thank you. I hope you understand. I would like to inform you that, under Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search, the application for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of LDPs, the SPS – JS, the DSS and the SRS. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Please, just sign in, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29887	Thank you. At first, I'd like to say a few things about it, and I'll try to come back after this heated debate on the subject that has been put before us MPs, for the second time in a row, choice. We, on the one hand, either vote to extend the passports, or we are explained that by voting against one part of our citizens there will be no travel documents. It's not much of a choice, you'll agree, so I believe that, no doubt, everyone present in the hall will vote for an extension. For the second time in a row, however, we do not get answers to a few questions. First question – whose responsibility is it that the passport is extended for the second time in a row, i.e. the deadline for issuing passports? According to a debate on the Security Committee, as I understand it, our citizens living abroad, who do not belong to any consulates that have the ability to issue passports themselves, procedures for obtaining passports for up to 3 months. By what logic will the deadline of one year be sufficient for all our citizens living abroad to do so, given that this is one of the reasons set out in the explanation of the proposal for an extension of the deadline? Today we tell you again - there is no theoretical chance that all citizens living abroad will replace their passports next year. With that in mind, my question is logical, but also political – which is why the state of Serbia secondly limits its duration, so-called. Blue passports? I'll remind you that he's in a series of these meetings, which he insists on getting. The white Schengen list, i.e. visa reliefs for Serbian citizens, several members of the EU Parliament, even here in this assembly, suggested that there is no deadline for the issue of passports. That condition doesn't come from that side. We understood in the first year the extension of passports, this psychological prerequisite, that if there is no deadline, the citizens will not even change their passports, but if this famous quota of a million passports is fulfilled now, if the white Schengen issue no longer leads to doubt and in the next four or five, ten days, we all expect Serbia to be placed on the so-called. The white Schengen list, which is why we are now limiting ourselves in advance next year and again bringing ourselves into a situation where we are extending the deadline in the Serbian Parliament? I don't think there are any more such reasons in which the government and this congregation should work. We haven't submitted the amendment, we left it to you, but we don't think there's any more reason why blue passports don't apply until their normal end, so when these passports expire, they'll change them, and in a natural way they'll replace the passports in Serbia. We still think there's a chance that the government will change the bill in that direction. On the other hand, since there have already been words here, if not imposed by the minister or vice president of the government, only the question of the White Schengen list has been raised. I think you as Home Secretary have reason to be pleased, but as Deputy Prime Minister, you have no reason to be satisfied at all. I'll try only in the shortest lines to remind myself that this government wasn't just biometric passports on that so-called. a road map to free Serbian citizens from visas. There were some other things and the ruling majority, at least five times, could not achieve what she wanted, thanks to the greater support of European integration in the Serbian Parliament, but rather as it is in the Serbian government. Serbia's assembly managed to pass laws that were so-called. condition on the road map. I'll remind you, it was the Law against Discrimination, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Combating Terrorism, it was a session on judicial reform, at which you also had no quorum, was, on condition to say, drama. That session couldn't begin. These are all places where the LDP has just helped to do it, and that's not a problem for us on that side. This is, after all, one of the purposes of existence – the acceleration of European integration, but on the other hand, I don't think you have the right to be satisfied as Deputy Prime Minister. I'll tell you more, perhaps, also a fundamental political assessment. This so-called. The map of the road on which Serbia signed a contract with the EU, firstly, to say, a technical political agreement, which will bring concrete benefit to the citizens of Serbia, was signed long ago and this was the first thing Serbia had to reach the standards already in place in other countries so that its citizens could enjoy some of the rights already owned by EU citizens. How much pain and trouble it took for this first contract to be achieved by Serbia, how much an affair it is, we have heard about it today, it had to pass! The first deadline was last year, to remind you. We're getting it now, if that's what we're talking about, with a year late, a white Schengen list. On the other hand, we can talk about dozens of years of delays, the causes of which Serbian citizens had visas. What happened here? Today, with so much delay, I don't think this government has the right to celebrate in any way. It is the first and probably one of the worst contracts, since it involves only technical improvement by the Republic of Serbia and does not involve any changes that would deeply enter our society. So it's a civilization achievement called a biometric passport. Some countries have had it for a long time. The question that we can now open here, as MPs, is the question of the modernity of these technologies today, eight years after that technology was commissioned. That technology will probably have to change soon, or in some way modern. Are we going to go through these cycles again? The question, specifically, for the MUP, but I think that you and the Deputy Prime Minister must answer – why does it take citizens, for example, living in Vienna, three months to get a home passport? I don't think there's any reason. Even in time of history, when the documents traveled on horses, they could have done it faster. So it is certain that there are some relations in this government between ministries that directly affect the speedy implementation of this procedure. I repeat once again, we do not have, as representatives of citizens, any space to express, even by voting against, because the direct consequence is so obvious that none of us have the right to do so. So, the deadline will be extended. We ask you and ask you to answer us—what is the term for anyway? It's not any condition, it's just up to us. Do you think this deadline will lead to a faster release of passports? I'm telling you, technically, there's a problem. It's no longer a matter of people's will, now it's a matter of opportunity. Whoever has a new passport will travel for two or three weeks without visas, even in many of the countries in the environment, who does not, will still need a visa. What's for sure, is that this assembly has lost another day, it will surely lose another day next year, again on the extension of this same deadline, and at this point we don't see any purpose of it. No one said it, maybe it was someone, but in some conversations that weren't public. Once again to repeat that political assessment that, regardless of the Ministry of Justice, there are many ministries in this country that have not done their part of the job, headed by Mr Djelic's ministry. I would remind you that in the process of obtaining the status of the White Schengen List, the Ministry of Science last adopted a strategy that was required to adopt first, given that the Deputy Prime Minister is in charge of European integration at the head of the Ministry of Science. Mr. Djelic was reluctant to answer such questions, but this is the government's overall relationship to the process. This measures the relationship, not because Serbian citizens will be able to travel. We think, unlike some other opposition parties, it's very important to carry out what's called the end. The map of the road and that Serbia will finally, within the time period to come, get a white Schengen list, but we will also talk about it at some of the next points of the agenda, we think it is necessary for the state of Serbia to do some things, and in order for Serbian citizens to travel easier. For example, to abolish the JAT monopoly, allow the lou bone companies to travel from Belgrade and in such a way that the social dimension gets some sense, so that students can, for the price of a tax from Belgrade Airport, go to one of the EU countries for the same money. It's something that is also the duty of this government. Once again, we will vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29888	Thank you, Mr. Andric. Your parliamentary group has four and a half minutes left. There is a word from MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29889	The President-in-Office, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, respected co-workers of the MUP, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we discuss important issues in this high house, such as today's issue, it is possible to shed light on the problem, or the question, from several angles and from several sides. Of course, with certain aspects, there may be reasons for certain criticisms that we have heard here, but there are other aspects, which are very important, in terms of evaluating the results achieved on this and on other issues performed by the MUP, and that must be said. When it comes to issuing travel documents, it can be freely concluded that it was a huge job, which the ministry's members have done in the best possible way so far. To issue millions and 250 thousand travel documents for this time with one new technology is not so simple, and it is particularly difficult to consider that conditions in which members of this service often work are not ideal and at the most adequate level, i.e. The crisis and the material base have not reached the level needed in modern technology. For each commendation, it is also the fact that the issue of travel documents and ID cards can be carried out at the same time, by applying the same requirement, in addition, by submitting the same documentation, which is valid for issuing both documents, which significantly speeds up the process of issuing these documents, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it is cheaper for citizens. When I talk about hiring a service in the release of these documents, it's worth respecting that on a daily basis, including Saturday, officials working on these jobs work uninterrupted, from eight to 20 hours. I've been able and personally to see some of the space in Braniče County where people work on these jobs; they're overcrowded with demands, papers and really do their best. In particular, it is a great engagement in the summer period, when many people from abroad come to us, who can get a passport in the country rather than in the diplomatic and consular representations, which are not much, which are not yet equipped in such a size and in such a number to be within the reach of the citizens. That's why these people are more determined to extract their personal documents here, and the law says it's in diplomatic and consular representations for 60 days, while it's in the country for 30 days. In practice, these people have even completed their work in a few days, thanks to the involvement of the ministry, or people who work in these services. A large number of citizens working abroad, and there are tens of thousands, especially in eastern Serbia, over the summer months may also be making certain suffocations on counters in the MUP. I am once again able to point out here that our citizens deserve great attention and great respect. Those with nostalgia think and work far outside of our country and every attention they get here is very important to them. For one such respect, of course, they come across the counters of the MUP. On the other hand, in local self-governments, the same people, in order to make demands, must first draw out certain documents in municipal administrations and it is about citizens who exist. In some other issues, these citizens are often not recognised as a permanent number of residents who are important in determining the level of transfer or at certain benefits that are relevant to local self-government. This issue is very important and, finally, it must be treated differently by the number of people who are engaged and work abroad, but it is an unbreakable and real part of the local communities where they live and work. I believe that I will not be pretentious if I mention the very important co-operation of some local self-governments that, together with the Ministry of the Interior, have made it possible to improve the working conditions of the Ministry to issue travel documents, as well as other functions in the Ministry of the Interior. Let me not be resented, in the municipality of Petrovac on Mlava, local self-government has adapted a special space and technically equipped that point with two counters, where citizens come for admission and processing of passport requirements. There's a big connection on this case. Of course, this is not just the case in Petrovac at Mlava, and Jagodina seems to have made a certain bond, and many other cities, which were reported by the media. Through the job of issuing travel documents and ID cards, it has been shown that the Ministry is fully focused on the needs of citizens, as well as on other actions and jobs carried out in the MUP, much more difficult in nature, that this ministry is leading policy in the interests of the state and in the interests of citizens, and a large number of citizens are able to, it is heard, to praise such a way of working. We hope, from the SPS-JS, that such a course of the MUP will continue and will have even greater success in its affairs, in favour of the citizens and the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29890	Thank you. The MP, Mrs. Donka Banovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29891	Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable fellow MPs, we have a very short draft of the law, which consists of all three members, but these three members include, in practice, two significant amendments to the applicable travel documents law. The minister said this law is of a technical nature. This could be seen, however, the story of visa liberalisation, of biometric passports, opens the whole topic of our European integration and where Serbia is today. The first significant change, or amendment of the law, consists of a different resolution of the period of validity of passports for persons under the age of 14 and 14 years. According to the current law, persons up to 14 years of age have a passport with a two-year period of validity. This change is good, because two years too short for a travel document to be valid, so that this change solves some of the problems that parents have had, that they have to renew a passport for a child under 14 and 14 years of age every two years. In the proposal you shared it, that persons up to three years may have a travel document and that the period of validity is three years, and persons between three and 14 years have a passport with a five-year period of validity. I think that change is good. The second significant change is that the expiry date so-called. The old passport, or blue passports, extends until 31 December 2010. So, you so-called. The old passports will be valid for another year. I completely agree with some colleagues, who have already discussed, that there was no need to set a deadline again. This is our third time, or second time, to change the existing law. There are some problems, you say in reason, objective nature, why can't all passports be replaced and get a new biometric. Of course, the biggest problem with passport replacements is our citizens living abroad, and they have a Serbian passport, because you will have to admit, it is obviously not well organised in diplomatic and consular representations. It is commendable that the MUP has issued more than a million biometric passports. My colleague Dragan Shormaz spoke about how well the previous governments were responsible for this success, and the MUP did so. However, it is obvious that citizens living abroad have problems and we cannot allow these citizens to have travel documents that will not apply after 31 December of next year. I don't know, Mr. Minister, did you realize that even at this point citizens who use old passports, whether they're civic, diplomatic or official passports, on which SRJ writes, you know, they're old patterns, they have problems at the border crossings, that holding it longer, that for 30 minutes it's being checked out from which countries the wearers of these old passports come from? So, in their records, they obviously already have a new biometric passport, which reads -- the Republic of Serbia, so I think your ministry and the Foreign Ministry should inform all states and border crossings, so that the wearers of the old passports should have no problem. So, the European Commission believes that Serbia, along with several other Balkan states, has met all the conditions from the 'road map' and has obtained conditions to be on the white Schengen list in December, i.e. that Serbian citizens do not have to wait for visas, pay the costs, wait in line. It seems that at last at least one of Boris Tadic's promises and the ZES coalition and the parties gathered around the ZES will be fulfilled. However, this promise has been partially fulfilled, i.e. it has not been fulfilled at all. Visa liberalisation will refer to those citizens who live, I say, in the northern province and in Serbia, but will not refer to those of our citizens living in the southern Serbian province of Cosmet. Apparently, when the government agreed to such an arrangement with the European Commission and European officials, it decided that it was not a problem for it to discriminate on its own citizens. You will have to admit that it is discrimination unless you can get a new biometric passport because you live in Kosovo Mitrovica. Here I will quote Jacques Baro, vice-president of the European Commission, who said on the occasion: "Serbia will take measures that make the difference between Serbs in Serbia and Serbs living in Kosovo." So, the European Commission also believes that such an arrangement is discrimination. When you make a difference, it's called discrimination. So this one promise is partially fulfilled, because it applies only to some citizens. As I said, this topic opens a whole big topic about Serbia's European integration and where we are today. The fact is that the whole process stands, that nothing moves there, and that the whole story of Serbia's European integration is reduced to partial visa liberalisation. As you know, after signing the SAA, it was a colorful lie for the campaign, even those who participated in it knowingly entered into the story because of the elections, which soon followed, because at the same time the agreement was blocked. So no European Parliament has even ratified this agreement, and ratification itself has been known to last about three years. A year ago, Serbia began unilaterally applying the Transition Trade Agreement, which is an integral part of this SAA, of course, to its own damage. The damages were first estimated, when we criticised that decision, at 300m euros. Experts say the damage will be less, because imports have fallen anyway, because the standard of citizens is very bad and destroyed, so that the damage shown in the figures may be lower, but the fact remains that Serbia is unilaterally applying an agreement, and we have no guarantee that the EU and officials will at all believe that we have started to apply it on that date. So we might be doing it in vain. formally speaking, the Netherlands is currently, although we know there have been some other countries that have been highlighted, the EU member that is blocking the entry into force of the SAA. The reason the Netherlands states is that Serbia does not fully co-operate with The Hague tribunal. There was a Brammertz in Serbia recently. After talks with him, Rasim Ljajic, president of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the minister in the Serbian government, says the Netherlands's insistence on the use of the "full co-operation" syntag is an excuse in the UN chief prosecutor's report, not an essential reason for the blockade of Serbia's European integration. Mr Ljajic further says the Netherlands is hiding behind Brammertz's report. Still don't tell me what that excuse is for or what the point is. So the government minister claims European countries are using excuses to block Serbia's European integration. Are the real reasons why the EU is tired of enlargement, that the EU does not want Balkan countries in its composition? If so, I think you should inform the citizens, because then the entire government is brought to a great deal of trouble. One of the main passwords that follows this government is that Europe has no alternative. What do we do then, or what do you do? Also these days, statements by President Boris Tadic, Minister Jeremic and Minister Djelic say Serbia intends to apply for membership by the end of the year. As soon as those statements were heard in our public, the statements by European officials who say this is premature, that this is also immature behaviour, because there is no consensus on the issue in the EU. So, it's as if the lack of results is covered by the excess of some initiatives. There is an initiative, Serbia will apply for candidacy, gain candidate status, and have not previously agreed with EU representatives. I remind all of us that Turkey has candidate status for nearly 20-30 years. So, 20-30 years ago, she applied for an EU candidate, so we know it's nothing closer to the EU. Speaking of Turkey, ministers, I want to ask you, this is a question for the foreign minister, Minister Jeremic, but he rarely comes to this home, so there is no opportunity, and you, among other things, were the first deputy prime minister in the government, so I want to ask you what this means, to call it the diplomatic offensive of Turkey in Serbia, that is, in the last six months, a lot of officials from Turkey were in Serbia -- he was Chief of Staff, they were members of the General Staff, he was foreign minister, he was Turkish President Abdullah Gul? We received a call for a session at which Turkey's president was scheduled to address this parliament, and at the last minute it gave up. I won't state the reasons that those who scheduled the session later remembered why it shouldn't come to that. In the media you have sentences both Tadic and other officials that co-operation and partnership between Serbia and Turkey is a strategic partnership. It is said that the two countries have the best relations in previous history and have assessed, both Tadic and Gul, that relations have reached the level of the strategic partnership. If it had continued a little longer, it could have been expected, from Boris Tadic's mouth, that Serbia would also get the fifth pillar. Prior to that, sometime in mid-October, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu was in Sarajevo and participated in a conference, from which he said Turkey would rebuild the Ottoman Balkans. "We will make the Balkans, the Caucasus, the Middle East, along with Turkey, the world policy centre in the future. This is the goal of Turkey's global policy and we will achieve it," the head of diplomacy at the opening of the conference, titled "Osman's Heritage and the Muslim community of the Balkans today". He goes on to say -- we want a new Balkan region based on political values, economic interdependence and co-operation and cultural harmony. It was the Ottoman Balkans. We will restore this Balkans. The Ottoman Balkans were a successful story, and now it needs to be restored. If you suspect what I'm quoting, go to the Sarajevo newspaper site "Days", where you have a complete text and everything the Turkish foreign minister has said, several weeks after the Turkish president's visit. There's not a finished story, because it looks like our foreign policy is kind of a shock therapy. You've got warm, so after two days you get cold. These messages sent to citizens are absolutely positive. Mr Tadic believes Turkey is a major strategic partner to Serbia. However, two days ago, Minister Jeremic spoke in the European Parliament, today a newspaper full of statements from those meetings, where he said there are forces in the EU that advocate a break in EU enlargement, after Croatia's entry, and that there is also a problem with Turkey's integration into the EU. Mr. Jeremic, I suppose, knows that well. He goes on to say -- that would be a very bad message to the region, because we've been under the Turks for 500 years, and now we'll be back in the waiting room with them. It is not a good message for those who have been under Turks for so long in the past, Jeremic said, just seven days after visiting Turkish President Belgrade. I think you've figured out why I think our foreign policy looks like some kind of shock therapy. Mr. First Vice President, since we do not have the opportunity to ask Mr. Jeremic what the priorities of Serbian foreign policy are, I would like to ask you to comment on what I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29892	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, Mr Minister, I will start with the basic problems our citizens have, because, on a proposal from the MUP, we ourselves limit human rights, i.e. rights in the broader context of the importance of obtaining and extending certain documents on the basis of which citizens travel and return from abroad. Namely, this is the third restriction, without anything being caused. No international legal act, no domestic act makes us speed it up, to limit it, and on the proposal of the MUP, you limit human rights of citizens, because those who did not do so by 31.12.2008, and this deadline, so now we extend it for another year, etc., we create problems for citizens, we extract funds from their pockets, we create anxiety among local citizens, and also our citizens abroad, who are forced to travel, to come and go, to get our documents and speed up the process, although there are no real and objective reasons for that. Secondly, the question is the price of extending this passport, i.e. replacing passports, extracting certain documents, which are in some situations and unnecessary, but the MIP, in the administrative procedure it implements to issue a travel document, seeks, and to obtain these documents should lose time and give financial resources. Under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, I will try to point out certain things that the SRS has already presented in the Assembly and ask for the intervention of the Ministry of Professional Services of the Ministry, but unfortunately this has not been removed. It is an obligation for citizens to submit certain acts in the process of obtaining travel documents, personal documents, in particular, a copy of the birth certificate. On your site, i.e. the site of the MUP clearly stands, under point 2 – a copy of the birth certificate, not more than six months old. This applies to the identity card, i.e. the travel document, where, under point 5, it is said – when applying for the issue of the identity card and passport at the same time, a copy of the birth certificate should be attached. Given that I myself applied for both passport and ID, I was forced to, in accordance with the instructions given by the MUP and your site, extract a copy from the birth certificate, and I must refer to the provisions of Article 84. The book code which clearly states that the birth certificate is a permanent document. We can't limit him to six months. Why does that to the M.O.P., I don't get it. On the other hand, by studying the provisions of the Law on Citizenship, because in these documents, the documents on the website of the MUP, it says that when a belief on citizenship of the RS cannot be made more than six months old, this is not an obligation anywhere in the law. We've been giving orders, we've been looking, we've insisted on making it right. We don't know why it wasn't done. We need to point out certain issues that are plagued by refugees and people who have left their homes, who have to go to other countries to come up with these documents. If once, under the provisions of the Law on the ID card, the Law on Citizenship and the Law on travel documents, attach the documentation that enters the central register of the MUP, it is a permanent document for you. Anyone who abuses these documents, who falsify them, will answer for it. You can't ask people what's not a legal obligation. In the case of refugees, the problem is that these documents are being obtained in a foreign country. To get those documents, so there are no direct mails, direct communications, no ex-office release of these documents, they go abroad, they have travel costs, the cost of administrative fees in those countries. They apply everything they shouldn't approach and initiate administrative proceedings. I have to stay in the administrative procedure that's being conducted at the MUP. On several occasions, the government of Republika Srpska in persecution, as well as members of the SRS and MPs in the RS parliament, have pointed to the problems of the refugee population. The proceedings lasted three, five, and even 10 years and today at the MUP you have submitted requests you have not responded to. You did not comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which obliges you to reject, reject or adopt a request in a procedural sense. I'm going to give you an example of human rights violations, which is a request that was filed on 30. 3. In 2009. It is a French subject, but an object that clearly demonstrates the abuse of the body, i.e. not by law of the intended obligations. Subject No. 204-2413. The request concerns the issuing of assurances, i.e. the resolution on citizenship and, later, the beliefs on citizenship. Namely, of the four members who applied, three members were given, and the fourth did not receive – without any explanation. Furthermore, one case from 2003 -- two members get, two don't get, so it's re-sufficient, so it doesn't fit again. What does that mean? Why do we not apply the General Administrative Procedure Act? Because of all these problems, I'm 11. 06. In 2009, he asked a parliamentary question, and I will try to read it in a shortened form: "In a administrative procedure before the competent state authorities within the framework of the Serbian Republic's MUP, tens of thousands of requests for obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia have been launched, and applicants have avoided persons from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. Procedures take months and years, regardless of the innovative legal regulations on citizenship and the ID card. Refugees cannot exercise numerous rights before Croatian and Serbian state authorities because of these status problems. Refugees, in the administrative process, provide documentation from the Republic of Croatia, which costs them a lot, due to high administrative fees paid in the process of obtaining these documents from Croatian state authorities. The administrative procedure lasts longer than provided for in the provisions of the Law on Administrative Procedure, so I ask the following question - why are the provisions of the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Citizenship being violated? Why is the impoverished refugee population forced to produce documents that are not provided for by the laws of the Republic of Serbia? Why is this category of population, due to the very bad financial situation in which it is located, not being free from paying administrative fees in the process of obtaining basic documents, based on the provisions of the International Convention on Refugees? "In response to this question, the MUP says: "By applying the provisions of Article 23. The law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, it is possible that a person born in another republic, formerly SFRY, who had the citizenship of that Republic, or a citizen of another country, was created in the territory of the former SFRY, who as a fugitive, exiled or displaced person resided in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or fled abroad, would be admitted to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia if he had turned 18 years of life, if he was not deprived of his business ability and if he submits a written declaration that he considers the Republic of Serbia as his country. In that sense, this ministry, at the request of obtaining citizenship of the Republic of Serbia under Article 23, is conducting a procedure to verify the fulfilment of the conditions for admission to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, addressing the competent services, which, in the face of their competence, inform this ministry of possible interference for the reception of persons into the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia." There's a buckle. It is said – The ministry addresses the competent services, which inform the ministry of possible interference with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the aspect of their competences. You have no right to do that. The Law on Citizenship does not allow you to do so, and this results from the provisions of Article 38, which clearly tells you what the obligations of the Ministry are. So there's no "eventual interference." A disturbance may be when the request has been filed by a person under 18 years of age and then the procedure, or at that time you reject the request. If the business capacity has been taken away, are you, in the process, asking the competent national authority to have or have no business capacity? You're not looking. What kind of additional procedure is this now? This is neither provided for by the Law on Citizenship nor by the Law on General Administrative Procedure, nor by any other law. You left it to yourself as a single valve to turn down someone, but by law you can't refuse them if you already meet all the other legal requirements. It is further said – in that sense, this ministry, upon requests for acquisition... Excuse me, the duration of the procedure, from the time of submission of requests for admission to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia to the adoption of the ministry's decision on the request, depends on the type of verification carried out by this ministry and the length of the duration of these checks. What kind of checks? Checks based on documents brought by the person, you can't do any other checks. Furthermore, in your answer, you say – also, the length of the procedure affects the fact that the applicant has attached all the necessary documents to the law, as well as whether the documentation has been agreed, or whether it is necessary to ask the applicant for further addition of the case. You do it immediately – you perform the procedure and your face knows it immediately. Why do you torture them, and why does it last for months and years? So, what do I demand? On behalf of the Government of Republika Srpska, on behalf of the SRS, on behalf of the tormented people who lost everything they had and then suffered another evil by their own state and their own state authority, which should reject, reject or satisfy, i.e. issues the personal documents required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29894	Thank you. I give my word to MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29895	Dear President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP will support the bill's proposal, or the possibility of extending the period of validity of the old passports, etc. Blue passports. However, the LDP once again wants to point out that this deadline, or extension until 31 January of next year, may be too short, or, Mr Minister, you should consider the possibility that there is no deadline, or that blue passports are valid until they are completely replaced by new passports. Also, we may also be able to think about the possibility of extending the validity of blue passports only for citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have a residence abroad. The fact is, you just spoke in the opening statement, Mr. Minister, that the largest number of new passports have been issued during the summer months, or at a time when many citizens of the Republic of Serbia come to Serbia and want to get to these new passports as soon as possible. This is how a great crowd arises in the area of the Sanjah municipalities, when tens of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad come and want to change the passport. When we talk about passport, we always come up with a story about visa liberalisation, which has been talked about a lot in the past months. I will point out that the LDP has helped to make many of the laws that were important on that map of the road leading from visa liberalisation to adoption in this assembly, at those times when the ruling majority was unable to provide support for these laws here. Also, putting Serbia on the white LDP Schengen list is proof that Serbia's European future is certain, but that the affirmation of this European future, above all, depends on our willingness to affirm all the values that mean – the European Union. We must also be responsible for ourselves, towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and recognise that the results achieved in the European integration process are more due to the EU's insistence on the enlargement process than to the clear European policies of the Government of Serbia. Supporting the government in every European project, the LDP has taken responsibility to affirm these European values in Serbia, especially in those situations where this European future, these European projects, and European values are threatened by the internal weaknesses of the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself. Once again, I repeat that the LDP will support this bill, but I ask you to consider those suggestions that my colleague Andric and I have discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29896	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this time, as long as I have, perhaps a little more than five minutes, President... Mr. President, how much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29898	Not full five minutes. Four minutes and 30, but here, five.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will repeat why, in the coming period, we will keep saying that this is the most incompetent government in Serbia's history, government of big words, marketing, first of all, Boris Tadic, who is a man of great words and marketing, and no works or effect, particularly a practical effect for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There's, like, one logical mistake when you listen to him. Pay attention, citizens, when Boris Tadic says – Europe has no alternative and Serbia will not enter the European Union if the request is a recognition of Kosovo. He says it all, man, in one sentence. That's logically incorrect. If he doesn't have an alternative, he can't say this second part of the sentence. If Serbia will never recognise Kosovo as a state, which is a condition from the European Union, then Europe must have an alternative. But simply, Mr. Tadic and his suite, led by his marketing team, thus addressing the citizens of Serbia and so speaking because he wants each of them to hear what it is for, and then get votes, because he is not interested in the practical interest of the citizens, but only in his position as President of the Republic and this government. I agree with Mr. Andric, who here said this is the easiest contract for this government to sign with the EU, which is because everyone else has done it. This government didn't do anything. I'll read again what she didn't do, except she made a problem, as we heard, about printing passports. The demilitarisation of borders and the formation of border police administration -- none of the first two governments of the Democratic Party worked, but the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Dragan Jocic, as minister. The adoption of the Integrated Border Management Strategy, the adoption of the National Strategy for the control of human trafficking -- was not made by the first two governments of the Democratic Party, but by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which was part of the G17 Plus, supported by the SPS and in which the SPS participated. So they have the right to talk. From your coalition, they have the right to speak about that they are partly responsible for their journey to Europe, but you DS have no right. Then, the establishment of the Office for Combating Organized Crime – you had only management, and your mouth is full of fighting organised crime. Complete production and preparation of projects for the issue of new biometric and electronic passports and ID cards and the start of their production – all this was completed by May 2008. Mr. Dacic inherited it all. It was all over already, it just had to be in the press and then, as I hear it, you made a problem for him; instead of the Ministry doing it, someone else did it. The formation of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Police – you did not have it when you led the police, as well as the Bureau of Presentations and Appeals, which is in the function of human rights and freedoms, which are full of your mouth, and you did nothing about it when you were leading the police. The adoption of the Police Act - you were not in the Assembly; the SPO, G17 plus and the SPS voted in favour of the law, and you from the DS did not even enter the Assembly that day. The improvement of international co-operation, the conclusion of numerous agreements on police co-operation – some now the minister signs again, and they were signed; I don't understand why, but the excess doesn't hurt the head. Say, Austria twice. Sending the first liaison officer to the SECI. Finally, the conclusion of an agreement on visa liberalisation and readmission, with the power of the law, which was also passed and which was represented in parliament by police minister at the time, Dragan Jocic. It all had to, Serbian citizens, be done in both technical and legal terms, in order to have visa liberalisation. Nothing after that, just a few ratifications, a deal. We've been waiting for two years, done business, to get to it. If the government had remained first, without DS, as soon as it was DS, it would have been an immediate disturbance, Serbian citizens would have traveled long ago and had red passports, biometric passports, and they would have much more money than they have today, as the average salary since Vojislav Kostunica's president fell 100 euros, and over 100,000 people lost their jobs. Serbian citizens, they're just talking and not capable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29900	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Mr. Sreto Peric has a word. Here you go. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have found a good measure in explaining this bill, because it is a practical state. Certain things foreseen by the earlier law are not completed, now you are proposing to extend the deadline. Whether we want to accept it or not, there's no one else, but there's gotta be a way to do it. Apparently, it could be said that this law does not raise many unresolved issues, however, it has also raised many issues. The best example for this is the presentation of MP Dragan Todorovic, who has asked many questions and we hope, Mr Minister, that in some future period you will give answers to many of them. We understand you in some ways. We shared views and opinions on certain matters when you were an opposition MP, you are now a minister in the ministry. One cold, or silence, can be understood, but Serbian citizens want to know the answers to certain questions. Article 1 The bill, which provides for amendments and additions to the 19th Basic Law on travel documents, where persons at the age of 14 have so far taken out passports with a period of validity of two years, is acceptable and rational by structure, i.e. at time limits. The SRS has made a different proposal with its amendment, but it can be said that even this proposal is not so bad, in fact, it is rational. If what was proposed in the SRS amendment was accepted, due to the physiological changes that occur, it would certainly be more rational, but this member does not need to and will not have a great need to comment on it. However, when it comes to Article 2. The bill, it's something else, this is about you. You have inherited many unresolved issues in the MUP and no one can blame you, but when it comes to this Article 2, we proposed last year, on December 30th, the law was passed, to extend this deadline already, because one of the colleagues has already said that employees at the MUP who are working on the realisation of passports are working under difficult conditions, in conditions where there are a large number of demands. That's absolutely true, but we knew it last year. It's like if a building minister, or a minister of infrastructure, said we'd do a construction facility in one day, but it doesn't allow, technologically, time, a panel should mature, so it comes in a few days and it says -- we've cut this deadline too short, it's not serious, and we need to extend it now. We'll put that aside. There are several things that represent more serious problems for the citizens of Serbia, or for the citizens of Serbia. You yourself said, and that is absolutely true, that in 31 diplomatic representations around the world, and most of all in the countries of Western Europe, there is the possibility that our citizens, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can submit a request for the extraction of a biometric passport and a deadline for its production is 60 days, but we have, for example, South America, where the diplomatic and consular representation is not technically qualified to issue passports and our citizens there have to come to Serbia to extract passports, and their journey costs about $1,600. We know that the deadline for making this passport is 60 days and should be noted, we must honestly say, that employees are employed in making passports to the extent that this effort is possible to complete the job as soon as possible, but very often there are objective reasons for breaking these deadlines. Now, if someone came from South America, paid $1,600 a trip and has to wait 60 days to do his passport, it's something that's very dangerous. To say that Eurofanatics, mostly, cite a white Schengen visa as one of the basic reasons for rapid entry into the EU. Remember the election on Vozdovec – 'Shengen White, Leader wants you'. Well, every normal man wants to travel, both across Serbia and across the globe, with the slightest burden, with the least administrative edges or bans. But, of course, it's a special problem now. SRS MP Mr Dejan Mirovic published a beautiful book, which says: "Agreements Against the EU". So, in one scientific way, he dealt with this problem and what is an advantage was accepted, but a number of problems have been identified when we attempt to join the EU. A good book about it was written by Hofbauer – "EU Enlargement to the East" and we can do some comparatives, some comparisons, see what happens then. So we have secured biometric passports, but for each trip it is necessary, not counting travel expenses, depending on the destination we travel to, 500 euros. How many of you can travel? Those who are born and live in Valjev, to go to Divcibara, those who are in Užica, to go to Zlatibor, need no visa or ever need it. How many of you can leave for at least one day, spend a trip? A small number, due to citizens' standards in Serbia. There's one thing that concerns us in the SRS, and we can analyze it once and get the answer to what it's about. Jelko Kacin says this - a real visa waiver for Serbia is expected for December 19th. It was announced by the second minister, days ago, just before this session, who signed a memorandum with Austrian Minister Maria Feketer. Jelko Kacin says this: December 19th is not accidentally taken; the holidays are. He wants to help Serbian citizens. "Serbia is the largest country in the region and in the process of approaching the EU it must play the role played by France and Germany in the EU. "Is he taking care of us, is he kidding us?" "If Serbia goes, it's good for all neighbours. If he's braked, then he's suffering directly from the neighbors. The message is clear – when Serbia decides something, it does. It has great potential for many activities and to be proud in the EU', he said, and just before that, he said – confirming the statutes of Vojvodina in the Republika Srpska Assembly is a test of the democracy of Belgrade authorities. We can't trust a man like this, of course, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, The EU, by scandal, sometimes surpasses Serbia itself, I must admit, by a scandalous government. Of course, there are ministers, there are other civil servants and officials who are trying to do their job properly, but, for example, high-ranking EU official Guenter Verhagen, a younger man, is about 62 years old, and his 14-year-old cabinet chief has raised his salary, from nine thousand to 11 and a half thousand, and it was explained that it was earned. When the scandal broke out, in defense of his moral character, the President of the European Commission, the honest Barroso, all the commissioners and heads of the largest parliamentary groups in the European Parliament, the demochrists and the Socialists, the Germans, Petering and Schulc, who did not allow this case to be lit up. It was all like that. Of course, the daily press didn't publish that idyll. It is very interesting that Jacques Barrot, vice-president of the European Commission, when he came to Belgrade in May 2008, said this -- this map of times very much resembles false promises from another, more famous road map, which was scheduled for Palestinians to get state by 2005. As in a more famous map, it's thought of this one where it's promised to the Palestinians, and in this one it's promised, it's promising foggy goals, and in return it's demanding a number of concessions. If there's time, I'll talk about those concessions. Serbia, among other things, is asked to accept a large number of citizens who are illegally staying in the EU, so read the mission, and in return is promised that by 2009, Serbian citizens, of course, but not all, will be able to travel to the EU. In addition, Jacques Baro himself said, during a visit to Belgrade on 7 May 2008, that only a few days before the local and parliamentary elections were held in Serbia, of course, he did not hide it – there are promises and a visa liberalisation plan drawn up by the European Commission and approved by countries, documents that meet Serbia's specific needs. Serbia's specific needs at the moment were anticipating elections, and it is clear that the essential condition for a successful dialogue is a complete and unreserved implementation of the Visa Facilitation and Reading Agreement, where around 100,000 people are expected to return to Serbia, with some problems emerging. The SRS wants Serbian citizens to travel, to live as well as possible, but given the economic situation, what the government's economic measures are, it will hardly happen soon. Minister, this is a rare opportunity for MPs to address you. I must say that the action called "Mova" has not answered, has not resolved many questions. Try to deepen it. Try replacing it with the action "Sava", or "Dunav", however, it flows through Serbia, so you have the right to call it that. I have to ask you a question – is there an investigation going on, and how far did it come with it, related to the murderer, Ranko Panic? Remember, that was when the SRS organised a rally to arrest Radovan Karadzic. I hope, on behalf of the SRS, that we will not be in a position to organise a rally for the arrest of Ratko Mladic, because you will never succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29902	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29903	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, as far as the agenda and travel documents relating to our citizens are concerned, i.e. The proposal for this law, which contains two members, the SRS MPs said what they had. On the other hand, I expect Mr Krasic, in the final part, to discuss this in more detail. Mr. Secretary, since you're the Home Secretary, I'd like to take the opportunity to ask you a question. Although several times the issue of issuing passports was raised in this assembly by the "autonomists", who issued it in this country, did the police, the MUP, take any measures against those who made this Separatist passport and will the appropriate criminal proceedings be initiated? Mr. Minister, if someone had ever done this since 1835, since the start of the modern development of the Republic of Serbia, he would have been arrested and convicted. I ask the question – will you bring charges against these separatists, pests, breakers of the Serbian state, to initiate criminal proceedings, to bring charges against them, and to impose appropriate penalties under the applicable criminal code? No country in the world would allow a passport to be made and this would be the predecessor of the state's creation in the country, and you, Mr. Minister, well know what the "authonomas" have done in the past, and you know who took part in the "yogurt" revolution. This is happening at the moment when the Statute of Vojvodina should be adopted. I see the Statute of Vojvodina as the "gifted constitution" that Milos Obrenovic donated to Serbia in 1835, which lasted very briefly and was abolished with the support of Western forces. Mr. Minister, it's high time you took action against those who take such acts. This isn't a small thing. If you haven't had the opportunity to have this passport in your hands, I'd be happy to hand it over to you later, so you can take appropriate measures. I will not repeat what Mr. Peric said about the Schengen and the travel documents of our citizens, which have been spoken of so much for a long time. Of that there is no way, Serbia has no idea, no citizens of Serbia. Serbia's promise to its citizens is one thing. First, we need to create preconditions for someone to travel. You see, I live in Vojvodina, and you live in Belgrade, and if you have to travel some business to Vojvodina, this is how things are going to have to have a travel document and a passport, with a big difference. If a minister from the government of the Republic of Serbia heads to Novi Sad, there will be fewer costs than those of citizens who will have up to 1,000 euros in costs if they want to travel abroad. It all depends on the destination, which country, which city they will travel to and stay in. This isn't for free. No one there will be welcomed with cookies and chocolate. Our citizen, if he wants to travel, must have a thousand euros in his pocket. There's no job waiting for him, there's only a expense waiting for him. All that our citizens could see, they have seen so far, and they will have the opportunity to see in some other conditions what is happening in the EU and in the Western countries, where so much hastens, but to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, as for some privatisations, I just want to ask two questions. Do you have any idea how she fell under Panceva's "fridge" bankruptcy? How is the privatized company "The Product", which had 1,300 workers, and now has only 25? Do you know, Mr. Minister, that a new 45m-euro factory was stolen from Azotara, Carbamid 2, that the profiteers and thugs stole it by disassembling it, loading it into a vehicle and selling it abroad? I would only ask you to check through your authorities in the area and the secretariats how the Pančeva icebox was privatized and how it went under bankruptcy, how did the Trade Product fall into misery and poverty, and what does 1,500 workers who have lost their bread do now? Another question, if you permit, Mr. Chairman, I apologize, if you allow me to ask you something – when will TV Panchevo, or Belgrade, provide these RTS workers with, since there is also Mr. Secretary of the Assembly, an adequate space for their stay of the Irad during the session? They've got a container here that looks like a puppy that's sneezing, covering it with nylons. I have to tell you that better conditions have pets than these people who work, and that's a question we raised a few months ago. Have Mr. Television's director cut salaries to those leaders and managers who receive five-six thousand euros a month, and these administration employees and technicians have between 20,000 and 30,000. Here, let's remind Director Tijanic to take care of these people too, because they deserve attention too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29904	I can't answer you, the subject is amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents. Please keep the subject, and the word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has become a practice in this House that when amendments and amendments to a law are made, or a new law is passed, in practical application indeed, as representatives of the SRS, in the debate on these laws, have warned that it might be. This was the case when last year the same thing was done to this proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents is now, i.e. extends the period of validity of passports on an old form for another year. This is another one in a series of confirmations that the process of issuing new biometric passports has been unprepared and that at the time of the adoption of this law only the political story of the white Schengen was important, of travels. It was necessary to tell the citizens what they wanted to hear. I only remind the citizens that it was at the time before the elections and that it was the main asset of the DS, and that there was no readiness, no technical, no other respect for what was prescribed by the Law on Travel Documents, it is not very important. In Serbia, laws are already used to being passed without respecting them. This does not surprise us from the SRS at all, because we are witnessing that even in this House we do not respect the law, nor the Constitution, nor the Rules of Procedure. On August 31st, this year, the president of the National Assembly was handed over to me and Miss Elena Christmas-Talijan's resignation as MP. Breaking the most harsh and harsh Rules of Procedure, and the Constitution, and the law, the Administrative Board of the National Assembly did not respect our will, with the reason that there are allegedly no conditions for the termination of the term of office. Some non-existent provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall apply only when it comes to the MPs of the SRS. It would be good if the President of the National Assembly, as someone responsible for respecting the Rules of Procedure, were not presently available, but I expect that it will come to the end of today's session, says why the Rules of Procedure is applied selectively and when the resignations submitted will be accepted. I will now return to what concerns the second amendment of the Law on travel documents, which proposes different deadlines for the validity of passports for persons less than 14 years old. It explains that the reason for this is, in addition to saving and improving the safety of citizens, and preventing human trafficking. About a year ago, I asked all the ministers who are members of the Council to fight trafficking in human beings about the measures taken by the Council, and in particular the answer from the Minister of Justice to the question – were the completed trials brought about by the crimes of human trafficking, especially the processes in which the victims were minors? I then cited data saying that in the period from 2004 to 2005, illegal channels, people were transferred, for which a total of 66 criminal charges were filed, 52 for human trafficking and 14 for illegal crossing the state border. During 2006, 37 criminal charges were filed against 84 people for the crime of human trafficking. Among the identified victims, there are underage children. According to the International Organisation for Migration, around 12% of the total number of human trafficking victims are children. The only answers I got were from the Minister of Health and the Home Secretary. This time I express my gratitude to the Minister of the Interior, because it is rare for ministers to honor us with an answer. The answer mainly contains measures taken by the Ministry of the Interior in the fight against human trafficking. However, the minister of justice's answer to a concrete question – whether the trials in which the victims are minors have been completed have not arrived. It's a big problem with us, not law enforcement. In order for these trials to be initiated, the police had to do their part of the job, but it's in vain if the judicial authorities don't do their part of the job, because if those who commit these crimes are not sanctioned, the effort to fight human trafficking loses every sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29906	The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29907	Ladies and gentlemen, when amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, which extended the validity of the old passports until the end of 2009, were adopted on 22 December, therefore, at the last minute, some may have seemed to be really catching the Eurointegration connection. I remind you that, with asylum laws, on the state border and on foreigners, this one has been declared a priority in the process of Eurointegration. During today's debate, you could hear how well we had an assessment of the application of amendments to this law, because today the Law on travel documents, as one of the system rules for introducing Serbia to so-called. A white Schengen list, awaiting its changes and additions. As a reason for the law being passed, it is precisely that the prescribed deadline – at the end of 2009, for the reasons already mentioned, would lead to legal uncertainty and would endanger the status and interest of our citizens abroad, who could not get the passports requested. Therefore, it is proposed that the law be passed by emergency procedure. That this job, just like the whole work of Serbia's Eurointegration, is going quite clumsyly, shows perhaps one of the crucial problems that followed this whole story of travel documents, and in particular, the time and way of carrying out the notification procedure for foreign countries. For the sake of the public, I will remind only that the Serbian Foreign Ministry, when it was issued, is the first, so-called 204. An honorary passport, sent an information note informing governments and competent ministries of all countries about the change in Serbia's official travel document. What happens next? The proud owners of the new travel document, however, were immediately warned not to use them for the next two to three months until the process of notifying all countries has been completed. Another time was sent a diplomatic note with a specific, i.e. a sample of the new passport – appearance, colour, number of pages and other details, to all countries where Serbia has diplomatic representations and even to those where it is represented on a non-resident basis. Therefore, the note contained a request for changes to be notified to all border services and customs and indicated that the new passport from 1 January 2009 would be the only valid travel document from the Republic of Serbia. For example, things got complicated when it was found that someone who was in charge of it, by chance, miscalculated the necessary time for all those who wanted it to replace the old passports, and from which apparently, it was necessary for the existing 'blue' travel documents to extend the importance for at least another year. Some owners of these new, red passports, passports, truth be told, have had problems precisely because of the speed of this forwarding of information on changes to the most distant outposts, which is not in Serbia's jurisdiction. We had an example, or case of a Serbian citizen who had a problem entering the United Arab Emirates with a new Serbian passport and a valid visa, an old, Yugoslav one. It was taken away from both passports after landing in Dubai, as they listed the names of different countries. At that time, Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic explained that the problem is not our service, because all countries, and 191, were adequately informed of Serbia's new passports, but that some probably did not notify their police and customs stations in time. The whole story is being followed by the Serbian Foreign Ministry site, where there was absolutely no information about the problem that came up with passports. Although the travel documents page said that it would inform citizens of the replacement of existing ones in good time, it was not a word of it, since the entry was obviously not long ago updated, so it was also written that, in due course, the replacement of existing travel documents was planned, although, as most of us probably know, the release of new documents was already in progress. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious that there's a lot of stuff that's going on in this whole story. Among other things, the Ministry of Diaspora, which apparently did not meet the serious needs of our people in the diaspora with Serbian citizenship to provide them with an effective way of replacing travel documents in all the embassies of the Republic of Serbia around the world. The said ministry is as if it is not compatible with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia, in order to realise the professional issue of travel documents in an acceptable time-out of Serbia, especially outside Europe. There is no other assessment except that the said ministries show incompetence for a relatively simple job that should be done, and all under the pretext that they did not have the means to obtain the necessary equipment. This excuse is particularly unacceptable given the fact that those who know the equipment a little bit better can establish that there is enough, say, just two photo reflectors, a digital camera, a fingerprint reader, a signature device, a scanner, a printer, an PS computer, an Internet connection to the MUP, and that's that. So a single tender would make it even cheaper, especially if it takes into account the waste of much larger taxpayers from Serbia to meet some internal needs of state officials. I mentioned that as far as people outside Europe are concerned only with Serbian travel documents, they are obliged to travel to Serbia by 31 December 2009 at the latest and to have more than 14 days off. Why do I say that? Because it takes so long for an emergency procedure to wait for a new travel document. How will there be people who come specifically from other continents who are forced to be extremely patient, where even the loss of a job isn't excluded, I don't want to imagine. Only, the list of those countries where a request for a new Serbian biometric travel document can be submitted is not so large, and given that the state itself and the process of issuing travel documents should be understood, I suppose, professionally and responsibly, the question is raised – will one of the competent and responsible for the consequences that citizens have for doing this kind of work? Another problem concerns new passports Serbia is issuing for the citizens of KiM, a problem that at least points out is a major problem on Serbia's path to abolishing visas for travel to EU countries. One of the options discussed in the EU is that new biometric passports issued to Kosovo citizens still have to have a visa, and even some EU members in Belgrade who oppose Kosovo's independence have previously recommended that Serbia do not issue passports to Kosovo Albanians. This was the message, among other things, and Spain, which, at least politically observed, has a view of Kosovo's statehood on the lines of Serbian authorities. But all EU members, including those prone to Kosovo's independence, also oppose the visa-free travel of Kosovo's citizens. The biggest, perhaps the only major problem for Serbia's visa liberalisation, according to authorities, is the KIM problem. Apparently, when it comes to passports for citizens of the southern Serbian province, the government was caught in one step, because by not issuing passports, it would practically admit that these citizens do not consider their own, and one of the conditions, as it has been said, on the road to visa liberalisation, is that the MUP can bring a particular person to justice, which is, for the citizens of KIM, because of the situation in which this state was brought, thanks to this government, at this point, inexecutible. Of course, there is a big problem with illegal immigrants, so the government in Belgrade and the state of Serbia has to deal with it to a large extent. You had the situation that, some time ago, Pristina's Koha Ditore newspaper announced that Kosovo is largely isolated from Europe, and what can be heard here is that if it comes to the white Schengen list soon, which I doubt, many Albanians will be able to ask for a Serbian passport, with which they will be able to travel easily across Europe. It is known that Kosovo is the source of various types of organised crime, smuggling, human trafficking, goods and, in practice, a hub for drug trafficking, as well as that could create a problem for the state of Serbia. So, on the fact that one of the conditions for white Schengen is integrated border management, which means effective control, that's where the new problem comes from. If, for example, I could be malignancies, and I have no intention of, obviously, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is always late to react to certain things. There has been such a case with the global economic crisis, but obviously we will wait at least another year on the white Schengen list, or until the next St. Nicholas, and we will probably know where the borders of the Serbian state are within that time, or, with the Statute of Vojvodina, which will soon be in the assembly procedure, it will only then be a great unknown. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29908	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic. The time remaining for the SRS Parliamentary Group is 16 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29909	For the sake of the public monitoring the transmission, I will try to show that the chronology of the adoption of the new travel documents law was under way, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted three years ago. The law was passed in 2007. In that old building, we criticized some solutions. I must say, a lot of our amendments have been adopted. It is then said – should not change the time limit prescribed, and it concerned some date in 2008. You know for a fact that in May, by order from the West, this rotten coalition, which is tasked with bringing a deadly blow to Serbia. You remember last December, before the New Year, a media picture was created – there, the importance of old passports, amendments and additions to the Law must be extended, and you, radicals, if you do not vote, you are opposed to our people being tortured, to suffer, and you are eager to go abroad. That's when we told you, and that's what Todorovic said today, in the morning, we submitted one amendment to speed up a little bit, we submitted another amendment to extend the deadline a little bit; both of the amendments you rejected and said – you misjudged, just one more year. Now it's up to the citizens to explain what's going on. It's about the most common manipulation, it's about presenting to the public something as useful, that this is necessary, that there is no other solution, that the state is stuck, but that it has failed to finish the job, but since this government loves the citizens, they now, a few months earlier, suggest that the importance of the old documents be extended again by another year. Let's remember, the equipment provided at the Lutra time, expensively paid, only it didn't break down from the use, so one government started the procedure, another one, the new one, who came, had a fight over who was going to print the passport, so calculate - two thousand dinars times the number of passports, you'll get to one digit, so take a half-percent commission for someone, and then you'll get some data. I can't argue that because of zero percent of the commission we're moving this, we're not moving because we're moving because we have incompetent authority, a government that doesn't know what the state is. The state is not a toy, the state is a serious institution, but when unserious people take it, Mrs. Grubjesic, then there's a disaster, like when a monkey enters a tank. If you were to ask all of these from the government from 2000 to today where the borders of this country are, no one would know how to tell you. Mrs. Grubjesic, in 2001, the sun is shining on us, and we got Bozidar Djelic, the famous man from "lapa-tapa". His adviser was Nikola Gruevski, this prime minister of Macedonia. You see, even friendly relations between these two men have not given rise to some benefit to the Republic of Serbia. Gruevski signs an agreement with the non-existent Kosovo state on regulating the border line. Serbia is conducting a diplomatic action to open a debate at the Security Council, in the UN General Assembly, to open proceedings before the International Court of Justice, a resolution was adopted, and the next day Montenegro and Macedonia recognised an independent Kosovo. No one respects you. You've made a mistake. Smile for the will, but lead the country to an ambis. Why is there no media action like it was last December? Because it's no longer news, I can't get political points on my passport, on white Schengen, on Euro-Atlantic integration. You talk less and less about it, but worse for you, that's what no one ever gets into this country anymore. Those who had the will to travel abroad have now lost that will, because that abroad and that West is expecting them as consumers. To be hired, to be saved from that power of yours, I cannot, it is limited. So, if you've cut down, ruined the social status of the citizens, it's perfectly normal for no one to call that new passport and new relationships anymore. Remember the first campaign to elect the president of Serbia, when Boris Tadic hung out in front of the embassy and said yes, yes, you are, but if you choose me as president by New Year's, there will be none of these lines, we'll sort it out. It's been many years since then, by the way. You're an 8-year-old. Do you remember what he said last year – he'll hire 300,000 people. It's possible, but first he has to fire 500 grand. What election promise has been partially fulfilled? All negatives. Now someone says it's useful to adopt changes and additions to this law. There are two kinds of reasons. One is how much a passport is worth to children. There are 11 other countries where there has been no release of our new passports. No one's arguing about that here. That's a valid reason. Here you ask a much more significant question – how long do you expect every screwup you make to be legalized? With this bill of law, the government came here to carry out its own legalization, to give some legal shell for something to condemn. How does your power work? Now you're trying to elect prosecutors and judges, and the two most important authorities involved are the brigs, and the Council of Justice doesn't have one member, and these larger prosecutors don't have one member, and they won't be elected because you don't want to. You don't want a clean bill. Every topic you open, you do not close, but keep it open so that it can be applied to your basic Maxes – the worse, the better. Who's better? Individuals, not to you sitting in this room, but to those from the budzak who make these moves. Here, let me remind you of one thing, do you know that the Securities Commission has expired its mandate? Six months ago, it was asked to submit a proposal for a new composition. No, there isn't. You know what one of the last decisions of that securities commission is? It enabled internal purchases of the new "Vojvodine Development Bank". Imagine, the main depositor of the bank was a few years ago the Vojvodina Development Fund, and at Pajtic's moment the funds were withdrawn, and in the second half of 2008, the bank, "Metals Bank", showed some, suspected of its liquidity. When provisional measures were introduced, when the Democratic Party ruled, actions, new emissions and internal distribution received by the Securities Commission bought by Pajtic. See how you guys work? You don't choose the means to finish the dirtiest jobs there is. Is that what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are asking of you? They're not looking, they're looking for something else, but you have to do it like that, because you chose that path. Take care, it is usually said – that the bank should be entered into the circuit and two banks to exit. You are stronger for this experience, since the Democratic Party was the main party from 2001 to 2003. In November 2003, you were also torn apart and divided into factions, but that's your problem. I don't care about your factional struggle. Rub your head, do what you know, but you can't let the citizens suffer for it. That's the problem. That is why we are from this place telling the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to know what the Democratic Party is like. Every time you're in power, chaos is in the state, there are no state authorities. They do not exist in terms of jurisdiction, respect for the law, compliance with the law of the prescribed obligations, but only the personal interests of the DS individuals. The whole of Serbia is your victim, the prisoners of your policy. You don't mind, you can do anything. You had a chance to hear Hope Kolundji a moment ago, she never said that, and when a man quoted her, she kept her mouth shut. If we were to deal with quotes, what did you say and what you did, do you know how much time we could lose here? You're taking the state in the wrong direction. What's left? To declare an epidemic, to prevent budget rebalances, to prevent a new budget, to go on temporary financing. You open December 1st as a very important point, as the International Court of Justice goes on trial, in order to reach an advisory opinion on whether Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence is in line with international standards. Some initial good results with the Russians, as we can see, about this billion-dollar loan, you've ruined it. Where? What's next? Of the 40 municipalities, 25 signatories are the presidents of municipalities, members of the DS, who can no longer endure the pressure on the local and ask the government for help. This government is on track to unite both power and opposition against itself. Why? The media can do something, and after some line, it all goes counter. You are now in a situation where everything goes counter. It doesn't help that in Vrbas, in one village, you hired 16 guys, counting on one of your parties to get a higher percentage. How much did you fire to get those 16 jobs? Nobody's gonna take your blue and yellow packages from you anymore, especially in the time of the virus. That hepatitis B theme is passports. The theme is that you are holding prisoners of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia; they are all prisoners of your policy. Your policy keeps the citizens in lockdown. You've been in power since 1991, 1992. You were in power with Panic. In all governments, you are. Who's the longest in power in Belgrade besides DS? Nobody. Where are your effects? What is this policy of yours? Where's a thousand euros for free? Where's the life from those 2001 TV commercials? You forgot where the border is today. Now you are united around the statutes of the AP Vojvodina. It does, because there's a danger of a passport being needed there. Who can trust you? When you swear something, I know it'll be the opposite. Everything has to be the opposite. What of the election promises have you made? Serbia is down. No one believes you abroad. You presented the abroad as your partners. What black partners? No one respects you. There's still a few TVs and newspapers left. You took everything in your hands and ruined everything. When you got your hands on it, it dried up. Why should Serbian citizens be prisoners of DS policy? It's very dangerous when someone rewards you with a medal from abroad. Why are they rewarding you? For the damage you're doing to Serbia. That's why you don't have our support, no matter how many things you show. The citizens of Serbia are at dawn. They understand which way this country is going. They understand that you are not a qualified bus driver named Serbia. The path you lead Serbia is an ambis, and that is why you need to get out of power as soon as possible, in order to avoid the far-reaching consequences for this people. You haven't closed the Kosovo issue. You lost the battle... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29910	The time foreseen for the SRS is up. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the DHS, I will support the bill and it is the only possible rational solution. I'm surprised at the numerous exhibitions that come from that political option that's been in power for years when the passport didn't serve anything. It could have caught the dust, it could've caught the spider, it could've traveled to Belarus, to Cuba, maybe to Iraq, to countries of favorite friends, but it couldn't travel anywhere in the civilization world, except for honorable exceptions. If I were to be indignant, I could make remarks that some of our fellow citizens will travel abroad by the end of next year with passports from the previous state, the SRJ, there are those who have a SCG passport, as well as those who have a biometric passport from the Republic of Serbia. It's causing a slight disturbance. I personally faced this fact at certain airports, certain border crossings, where local police are no longer listed in the country's previous state of SRJ. What is it? It's here. If I wasn't a traditionalist, I'd say that on the front page of the passport, next to a Cyrillic name, there should be an English or French and Latin name, because the passport is not a document for internal use, but for travel abroad. I'm a traditionalist, though. Also, it seems a little strange to me that it takes two years for all citizens of this country to have a uniform travel document. On the other hand, it is much more important that citizens have a valid passport and I hope that from New Year's, they will travel without visas abroad, first of all, to Schengen countries. I don't hear anything that many people tend to travel to Iraq, I haven't noticed, regardless of brotherly, friendly and traditional relations with Iraq. I repeat once again, we must be extremely rational. Mr. Minister, I urge that we be quick, urgent and effective when the travel documents are issued to our citizens living abroad. We bring the diaspora law, it's nice and necessary, and necessarily, and thank God that's the case, but the diaspora relationship will manifest itself on concrete things, among other things, and the time to obtain passports. I've been appealing to the MIP to search the network of our DKP, because they exist on the basis of some matrix that no longer has any purpose. If I tell you that 3,000 of our countrymen live in Dubai and that they have a consular representation in Cairo for three hours of the summer, it doesn't make any sense and we turn them into second-class citizens. For nothing then, the stories that we respect, love and appreciate our diaspora are proven by concrete action. It's similar or the same situation, and I repeat it many times, I hope the foreign minister heard me, and I got promises to change that, with Malta. There's also 3,000 of our citizens. On the main street in La Valeta, every 100 meters you meet one of our men. I know one of our construction workers died. It was a suffering to collect documents and do what needed to be done. It's my appeal to speed up the procedure for our people living abroad to get new biometric passports.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29912	Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask – do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their right to Article 93? Rules of Procedure? (No) He has the word Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I've been an MP for many years, since 1992 continuously, in this hall and in the hall of the former Republic Assembly, of course, I'm sorry that I can't answer directly to those who asked me, and since I've respected all of you and stayed until the end of this debate, here, I will answer you in this way. I don't think there's any reason to further explain what I was talking about. I just want to say one thing, completely honest. Let's be open and correct to the end. I did not write the Law on travel documents, nor the Law on ID cards, but wrote and brought by the previous government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, in which various political parties were, among other things, the minister was from the DSS. If that's the case, I've been responsible for what happened on July 7th last year since I was Home Secretary. When we talk about deadlines, be so correct and say that in the first, the Bill of Law, which was adopted in 2007, is scheduled to begin issuing new passports in April, right, Zorice, 2008 and end by December 31st of the same year? What are you talking about? Was that even real? With what capacity? Let's be correct, I want to tell everyone that I can't accept criticism for what happened. Since December last year, not here, but in the second room, there, people working at the MUP, working on administrative affairs, and there are about 300, so less than 300, they've issued a million passports. I want to thank all of them for doing this hard work with just two personalization machines that we had at the time, and now we have three. What kind of job are we in for? We just assume, because by now about a million and 200-300 thousand people in Serbia have had a passport, and approximately two and a half to three million people are expected to have a new biometric passport by the end of this process. I agree there must be a deadline. I'm sorry we're wasting our days on issues like this, which may not be at all controversial. We think it's still necessary to keep some deadline, so we don't get into a situation like with ID cards. Namely, when the Law was passed in 2006, it was possible to issue ID cards by 2011, and that is more than six million ID cards, and so far only a million have been issued. The same people doing administrative work at the MUP will now have to issue passports, ID cards, they will have to issue new driver's licenses, traffic permits, etc. It absolutely has to be a deadline, so we don't get into a situation where the passport replacement process goes on indefinitely. There is no more danger of visa liberalisation in terms of white Schengen, because there were 200,000 passports issued in December last year. So, 200,000 passports five days before the legal deadline that we set a year before that in the Serbian Parliament. What I'm saying is that we've been trying to get the deadlines given in the law to be exceeded, in the sense that passports are being issued before those legal deadlines. So today, the issue of passports lasts from three to 15 days, mostly. When it comes to emergency procedures and when someone comes from abroad, we're really trying very quickly. On the other hand, there is an objective problem for people living abroad. I wouldn't want anyone to get me wrong here. So far, 40 and a few thousand passports have been issued for our citizens living abroad, and there are plenty of them, and you know it well. It is no longer a problem just whether passports will be valid for another year or five years, in a formal sense, in terms of whether to obtain visa liberalisation or not. Many countries that have moved on to biometric passports have set a deadline, and since then there have been no longer any extensions. That's why we have defined that this deadline is up until the end of next year, so that we have some real incentive for people to finish all these things as soon as possible. We have another, much bigger problem – these are ID cards. So far, millions and 100,000 IDs have been issued. The process should be completed, under a law also proposed and brought by the previous government -- by 2011. Guys, that's two years from now. In two years, another five million IDs are due. Is anyone thinking about it, is it real or not real? What I'm saying is that everything that's been done so far deserves commendation when it comes to organizational matters. Serbia has not invented biometric passports, they are invented in the world, are one of the conditions for visa liberalisation. First block of questions is the security of documents. Security of documents means safe passports and other personal documents. It is certain that such passports are much more difficult for any form of counterfeit than these previous passports. It's certainly one of the conditions for visa liberalisation. So when you speak, since they are here, it seems, some have forgotten who the government was, who the opposition was during some period, don't speak to me. I didn't explain why this law should be passed. It was discussed by some others, and now those who explained it to me, like, they're asking questions. Please, I just want to remind you that I am implementing the law that you have proposed and passed. (Dragan Todorovic, from town:... with minority support. Then it wasn't, it was the government that was... Mr. Todorovic, please. (Chairman: Please, no throwing away.) Please, I've been very closely following what you've been saying so far. In any case, I did not claim that this law was passed because of visa liberalisation, said those who explained it. It wasn't me who pulled the passport release from KIM and ID cards, it was you in the government's previous term. So, ever since the release of new biometric passports and ID cards, passports are no longer issued on KIM. Ladies and gentlemen, it's true and don't speak any other way. I'm asking all of you who are saying that you have that in mind, and you know it well, you who come from KIM. Therefore, the politicisation of all this is not an issue that I want to accept, because it is one technical question. So, when it comes to the issue of passports, the demands were previously received on KIM, not now, but it didn't begin by my arrival, it started earlier, ladies and gentlemen. When it comes to who has the right to passports -- everyone has the right to passports, all Serbian citizens, regardless of what part of Serbia they live in. But the decision, or the European Commission's proposal, has not yet made the decision, but the proposal, which is expected to be made on 30 November this year, will apply to Serbian citizens visa liberalisation. All Serbian citizens have the right to a Serbian passport, regardless of their national background and residence, but for Serbian citizens whose passport has been issued to so-called. To the coordination board, visa liberalisation will not apply. It's a fact of fact. Am I as minister and deputy prime minister satisfied with that? No, I don't. Serbia is not in this situation to accept or accept something, it is a unilateral decision by the European Commission. And speaking of which, ladies and gentlemen, this isn't the only example where something doesn't apply to KIM territory, which you've been talking about all these years back. So, even when it comes to the readmission agreement with the EU, it does not apply to the KIM territory. Since November 2002, Kosovo has received its technical dialogue with the EU, a mechanism to monitor the stabilisation and accession process. Since November 2006, the European Commission has published a progress report for KIM, in line with Resolution 1244, as well as for Serbia. The textile agreement, adopted, does not apply to the territory under Resolution 1244, and the initialling of the famous association and accession agreement meant that. CEFTA, meaning, the Free Trade Treaty, which was in Parliament, too. I wasn't in the governing structure then. Therefore, it is the same as it says for visa liberalisation, meaning it does not apply to KIM territory, according to Resolution 1244. As far as I'm concerned, I think Serbia should insist that all of our citizens are subject to visa liberalisation, but in this case, in line with these previous views, the proposal is such that this territory, which is under Resolution 1244, has not passed the criteria for, I say, all legal mechanisms, that there can be visa liberalisation. Anyway, I want to say a few details. In these ten years, about 400,000 people have gained Serbian citizenship, it is about refugees. Since 2005, there have been 473 unsolved cases. I call on Mr. Buh to see together with the MUP what needs to be done when it comes to legal procedures, because that's a priority for all of us. Also, if there are any other amendments and additions to the existing law or the Law on ID cards, it is necessary to work on simplifying procedures so as not to have such situations. We will network with other state authorities, so from December, Mr. Buha, the application of this law begins, where a copy of the parent books will be permanent and then there will be no need for it to be renewed in this way, every six months. When it comes to the way passports are issued today, everything related to passports has been established by the previous law, which was passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, that's when it was defined and the way the passport was issued and the passport was made. Once again, what I said a year ago, I don't think it's the best solution for the MUP not to participate in the passport-making process, but that's the solution, by law, given to the NBS, or to the banknote-making office. You heard earlier, Mr. Shormaz, wanting to show how it all ended at the time, said that when I came, it was all over. That's right. In any case, it was brought at that time, the way that law was passed, with that provision, is what it is. So, the MUP issues passports, and the passport as a passport makes the NBS, that is, the banknote-making office, in accordance with all the procedures that exist there. Given some newspaper inscriptions and what you were talking about, no analysis, or processes, or reports has been found so far, that there have been any irregularities in this commercial process at the NBS in the making of passports. On the other hand, it is possible to discuss the change of this, since Mrs Tabakovic suggested it, meaning whether the NBS or the MUP will do so, but I don't think we should go to that move at this time, because we would have violated the dynamics of issuing passports. Anyway, that's the solution, that's one found state. It's important to us that the passport is quality. There's no problem with his verification when it comes to other countries. So, it hasn't happened so far, it hasn't happened that anyone in the world has a problem, like our citizen, with a new biometric passport. I just want to add one more thing -- that on December 1st, most likely, a new system will start, which someone here was talking about. So, the promotion of our biometric passport system, I've already talked about it, but just to explain, the fingerprint will be on our passport. In the EU, that's the standard of this year, the standard of a future. Serbia should not helmet for the EU, but should step up with the EU, so that Serbia will be among the top ten countries in the world that will have this technology, which will allow citizens to pass around the world where such identification border or control units exist. In any case, not to spread the subject now, since there will probably be an opportunity and when amendments are discussed, this is not a question of whether someone is misdetermining the time to replace the passports or not, this is just about the fact that it is no longer a problem itself, but that there must still be certain deadlines as long as some passports, some documents, are in public use. I really think that Serbia should stop being a country whose citizens will be carrying passports of a state that no longer exists and where our people have problems around the world that someone identifies them from which countries they come at all. We can have no problem accepting amendments to be six months longer, or a year longer, but some deadlines need to be set, so people know what period to replace their documents. I thank you for your attention, and I don't want to take this any further in terms of who's more responsible now and why. Visa liberalisation, if positive for Serbian citizens, will be the first practical, perhaps, benefit that citizens will be able to see from European integration. Of course, I want to thank everyone who has participated in this all these years, whether they were in one, the other, the third or the fourth government, it's absolutely irrelevant. It seems to me that the vast majority of our citizens have a positive view of this issue, without any other politicization. There were no other conditions for visa liberalisation, except for four blocks of issues from the 'road map' -- it's document security, it's a matter of borders, migration and asylum, the issue of fighting crime and corruption, human rights and freedom. Absolutely, there were no other additional conditions related to political issues at all in these visa liberalisation talks. Besides, everyone who took part in it knows best, and as you know, it started a few years ago. Even at the time of the previous minister, Jocic, the MUP was headed by the so-called White Schengen working groups. It's now a separate block of questions from what we're talking about today. We are certainly not doing this for the EU, we are doing this for us and for our citizens. Our citizens deserve to have the passports of Serbia, the state in which they live and whose citizens and citizens are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29914	I thank Mr. Minister for the exhaustive, professional and perfectly decent presentation, which leaves no doubt and dilemmas on the subject, and we discussed the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents. I am concluding a principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Travel Documents. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene): I answered the line! It doesn't make sense! It's the Rules of Procedure! There's no point in what you're doing! What does that look like? How are you taking this congregation? This is really amazing. You have no right to a replica, you are not mentioned in any context. You'll be the first person to get a word after a break of one hour. We continue our afternoon work at 4:00 and 15 minutes. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29916	Dear People's MPs, we move on to the 22nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE SINGLE PURPOSE (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on European Integration. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and that is: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak, each and every once, for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs: Miletic Mihajlovic – the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group, Serbia's Unity of Serbia, Prof. Mileta Poscurica – the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia, Zoran Shami – the Democratic Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group - Vojislav Kostunica, Gordana Rajkov – the G17 Plus MP group Vjerica Radeta – the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure before the break. I would ask you to listen to me, ma'am, because, on the basis of Article 27, you should take care of what's going on in the Republic of Serbia Assembly. I'm advertising Article 101 and Article 113. I suggest, in order to make it easier for the Assembly to function and not to come into this situation, to bring only one member of the Rules of Procedure – that the Rules of Procedure should apply and be decided by the Chairman, and that everything written puts out of force, if that is the way the chair is assessed, because so much arbitration in the conduct of the session is amazing. The minister has had his presentation on several occasions, but to be clear, his presentation was wrong, or he misread those statements concerning the SRS, and Article 113 says well – the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on order at the meeting of the National Assembly are applied to other participants in the session, in addition to the MPs, and are applied accordingly to the meetings of the committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. Therefore, it is also applied to the minister. If the minister challenges the replica and if there were dozens of replicas in this assembly to the minister's presentation, then there was no reason not to give it to me today, or not to apply the Rules of Procedure. Now, the only thing I'm asking for is the stenograms of all the sessions where the MPs of law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, were given the right to replica...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29918	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I am not prepared to accept your suggestion of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. I cannot accept that, simply, is not in line with the principles of parliamentary democracy. There can't be just one member, and you can't give me that kind of authority as chairman. Does the representative of Proposer Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29919	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, you have before you a bill on a single voter's list. In short, I will try to present it, and the broader explanation lies before you, along with the bill. An up-to-date and precise voter list is a basic prerequisite for regular, legally valid and democratic elections. One of the basic political rights – voting law, the voter can use only if it is listed in the voter's list. Since 1990, laws have been passed three times in Serbia to regulate the selection of MPs, including 1990, 1992 and 2000, as part of their election lists. The rules governing the voter lists have not been significantly changed so far. An important law on the election of MPs regulates election lists within a total of ten members. Only one member prescribed that a general polling list was conducted by the municipalities in Serbia as part of a single connected system, while the Law remained unarranged, so it is not specified which body runs a single system, it is not arranged to run a single electoral list, nor how voters' lists are linked to a single voter's list. For these reasons, in practice, the unique voter list, in fact, represents a technical pool of voters enrolled in the electoral lists, run by municipal, or city administrations, as a trusted business of state administration. The lack of legal solutions contained in the current law conditioned the need for the adoption of a new, special law, which will create a normative basis for the correct, up-to-date and uniform voter records in the Republic of Serbia, which will be conducted by law by a certain body of state administration, the ministry responsible for the affairs of administration, that is, today, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Also, instead of the prevailing technologies provided for in the applicable law for the conduct of the electoral list, for example, the keeping of a polling list in the form of a file, or in the form of a file on a magnetic tape or on a magnetic disc, which, in addition, can contribute to failures in the conduct of the electoral list, a new law will establish the obligation to conduct the electoral list as an electronic database based on a unique methodology, which will significantly contribute to the accuracy, the urgency of voter records. In addition, the future exchange of data between competent authorities that keep official records of citizens of importance for the management of the electoral list and the competent ministry and municipal and urban administrations will be made by electronic means, thereby significantly cutting deadlines for the delivery of relevant data and creating conditions for more effective co-operation of competent authorities in this area. The bill removes the lack of data exchange between municipal, or urban administrations, and the organisation units of the MUP, as the future exchange will take place directly between the two ministries, the Ministry of State and the local self-government, which will forward the data to the local self-government authorities. One of the important newspapers contained in the bill is to allow voters to vote according to the country's place of residence, if they are not in place on the day of the election. In this way, voters are greatly relieved to exercise their electoral right, with respect for their personal and professional obligations and needs, thus equating their position with the position of voters staying abroad. Since the bill provides that all information on the voters' water in the voters' list, without keeping the accompanying records, is kept as permanent, with the fact that the voter will vote according to the place of residence abroad for the purposes of certain elections. After holding the election, the fact is deleted from the voter's list, and can again, at the voter's request, be entered for the needs of the next election. Unlike the solution contained in the current law, which envisions keeping special voter records abroad (55,539 voters were listed, with only 18,000 votes in 75 seats, in 40 countries), the proposed solution will contribute to the number of voters who want to vote abroad for each election being realistic. Although there is no further provision for the keeping of special voter records abroad, the bill respects the need for the translation of data from that record into the single electoral list, which, as well as the need for the unification of existing electoral lists run by units of local self-government in the single electoral list provided for by the bill, conditioned that the application of this law should be postponed. The bill retains a solution whereby, until the voter's list is concluded, changes in the electoral list are made by the municipal, or city administration, and the paper is that, after the voter's list is concluded, up to 72 hours before the election day, the change is made by the Ministry in charge of the administration, not by the court, as was the case under the applicable law. This enables citizens to exercise the right to register in the most economical and efficient way, i.e. making changes in the electoral list, and by setting the Ministry as the only authority authorised to make subsequent changes in the electoral list, conditions are created for the effective and timely implementation of these changes in the electoral list. Given that, according to the bill, the electoral list is one and unique, its conclusion will be carried out by the body run by it – the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, not, as so far, every unit of local self-government. Also, the ministry will be empowered to copy the presses from the polling list by polling stations to conduct all elections, which should ensure the efficiency of the electoral process and the accuracy of the data contained in the performances. Finally, the definition that voter records should be governed by a special law, not, as so far, by the law governing the selection of MPs is based on the fact that the voter records are clearly separate from the election procedure, and the selection procedure of MPs is, otherwise, only one of the electoral procedures in which the voter records are used. Of course, this law is only one of the laws that the Ministry has done regarding the comprehensive reform of our political system and a very important law, because, unfortunately, so far in our electoral processes, it has been a common practice to dispute the results of the elections because of the alleged impropriety of the voter's list. What's important to say right now is that our voter list, despite all the problems we have, is not in such a state that it could in any way lead to the results of the elections being held that can be challenged. So, we must say, after an analysis of the voter lists and strict inspection of all election lists, which we did in the ministry, despite certain problems and anomalies, there is no room for any speculation that the voter list is not good enough, or that it could affect the results of the election. Not only because we want the results of the election to be uncoupled, but because we believe that the civilization principle is clear, precise, transparent voter list, a completely clear way to run that voter list, so that in the future, in the end, anyone who would want to compromise the electoral process of doubt regarding the voter's list, we have today proposed this bill on the voter's list. I hope, in addition to this paper, that it is a unique electronic database, that the other newspaper in this voter's list, above all, the possibility of our fellow citizens voting towards the place of residence, will influence our MPs to accept this law and to quickly resort to the creation of that electronic database, i.e. the electoral list as a unique electronic database. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29920	Thank you, Mr. Minister. In accordance with Article 37(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the representative of the LDP Parliamentary Group is a national MP for this part of the agenda, Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Lasslo Varga, want a word? (No) Does MP Momir Markovic, who singled out his opinion, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice that the Ministry has remembered to finally introduce a single electoral list in this country, but as far as I can see, this proposal is only in the title. It seems to me that this is a citizens' distraction again. The minister's promise, with "mommy, there will be no more theft in the election, my mother, will no longer be able to make someone disappear from the voter's list," only thanks to the urgency or inadequacy of those who have introduced people into the voter's list, while reminding the minister that nothing will change since the last elections, when many who have been known to vote, say, for the SRS, have magically disappeared from the voter list. There comes a man to the polls. Sorry, you're not on the list. Well, I've been to the last election -- you've been to the last election, this time you haven't. This law does not create conditions for a definitely arranged electoral list. The SRS's position of ninety-seven years is to edit and bring a single electoral list and prevent it from being individual, and this was both in the last and last elections, in two or three municipalities being included in the voter list. I personally had the opportunity to see those calls for the same man, with the same home number, registered in both Zemun and Barajev and ask God where else. Minister, the same people who have been editing so far the electoral list at the level of local self-government will continue to edit it. What is a guarantee to the citizens of Serbia, what is a guarantee to all of us that this will never happen again? To remind you, in Montenegro, for example, Milo Djukanovic solved it a little differently, so there were people who had 24 ID cards for 24 polling stations in 24 municipalities in Montenegro. Mr. Minister, I'm not sure what you've read to us right now will be a guarantee that the voter list will be so arranged that someone who has the right to vote won't be able to be outside that ballot list and that someone who's registered in two or three places won't be able to vote. The people who did this at the level of local self-government will still do it, and you will only unite it. The fact is that so far, this lack of a single electoral list, cleared of all anomalies, has allowed for theft, and this is one of the most difficult thefts. Stealing people's will is one of the hardest thefts. I believe, Minister, for your information, you're on your way, not to steal, but to vote. Therefore, this bill of law that you have now given does not guarantee that all the machinations that have been made in the elections will be avoided and that is why I have excluded my opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29922	Thank you. Among the representatives of the parliamentary groups first came Dr Zoran Shami, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29923	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the DSS feels it is certainly worth passing a law on a single voter's list. Moreover, I am convinced that every serious party, with serious intentions, has an interest in the adoption of the Single Election List Act. In fact, perhaps someone can be done, now, as usual, some of the parties in power, some others are in opposition, that in some ways interests differ. But it's not like that. The experience of the past 20 years has taught us, after all, that all parties here were both in power and in opposition and it is quite clear that in the next five or ten years, all relevant political parties will again be in power and in opposition. Therefore, if someone thinks that irregularities in the voter lists could help him at some point, let them be quite confident that it is a two-end beating and that there is no help. If we're serious, we should make a law on a single voter's list, such a law that will guarantee the full regularity of the election. To be clear, in the meantime, since the elections have been held in Serbia, everyone has learned to count votes, control the number of votes, so I am quite confident that in this domain manipulation of the election results cannot be. The only serious irregularities can be caused by the abuse of voter lists, in various ways, I would not now enter these details. I just want you to believe my word that for years, especially in the 1990s, I've studied this matter and I can give you all sorts of opportunities to manipulate the election through the electoral lists. We haven't made too many objections to this law, but we have some, in my opinion, very important. We have submitted a total of six amendments. Two amendments are the pure consequence of one of those four. In other words, we practically submitted four amendments. Of those four amendments, two are very important and, regardless of the opportunity to defend these amendments in particular, I would still say something about them now. First, the DSS disagrees that citizens can also vote in the place of residence. I'm talking about citizens who have a place in Serbia. I'm not talking about those who live abroad permanently. It's a special category. Why do I think that? Because I believe it's a possibility for pretty big manipulations, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, I'm not at all convinced that the level of the organ, especially at the bar, is such that it would be okay. I'll tell you one of our internal party experiences. On one occasion, for some elections within the party, we had the opportunity to vote towards the place of residence and I can tell you that we gave up very quickly because, literally, there was chaos. Another of our remarks is the proposal of a new member, who would be properly introduced into the law, in which we ask all participants to be elected in electronic form to deliver parts of the single electoral list. When I say "parts," I mean part of the data from the single polling list. So, not the names and last names, it, in the extreme line, is of no interest to anyone, and it does not have to be interested in him, but that, for all those in the single polling list according to the home number, such a single list is made in electronic form and that each party requesting it, better said to each participant, the choice it requests, before the elections, delivers that kind of single electoral list. We've even figured out how to edit these parent numbers by some logic. It would then allow election participants, based on some of their free software that they create, to check that voter list and, I say, to fish any errors, manipulations with the list, etc., whether there are doubles, whether there are such, etc. So we think it's a very important amendment, which obliges authorities, which, in the end line, always primarily organises some of the next elections, to supply all participants with adequate data and thus protect ourselves from any manipulations. Someone will say - there's that spray, no one can vote twice, etc. I don't think we should be funny. Each chemistry has its own anti-chemistry, therefore, it's a protection against some lay-off scams, not organized fraud. Repeat once again, I would simply warn all parties in this House that we must, if it were the common interest of all political parties, bring such a law on a single voter's list that will make it impossible for someone to sometimes manipulate that vote list. Once again, I will repeat that the DSS in principle supports the idea of adopting a law on a single polling list, namely that this very important matter is finally regulated by a valid law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29924	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29925	Mr. Shami, I've looked at your amendments. I have to say right away, as far as punishment is concerned, it's a proper amendment and we'll definitely accept it, but other things are unacceptable to me. It's not acceptable for political parties to get that record. I believe that the Constitution is in this respect completely clear; the record collected by the state authority can only be used for the purpose to which that record has been collected, and here it has been collected for the purpose of the exercise of the active or passive voting rights of those persons. Honestly, we've known each other since before 2000, when the records were shared with the parties, she would have served, in my confidence, to run the campaign. I don't think I'm the first, as a citizen, I'd like every party to have that information. Of course, I'm a minister, it's logical that you do, but I speak as a citizen. That's my opinion. That is why I will not accept this amendment, and I would like you to accept my belief that voting towards the place of residence will not cause any problems. We have a large number of students. It is studied by centres – Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis. Many people work outside of their place of residence, have a place of residence, and a hundred, 200, 500 kilometers outside of their place of residence. If he reports that he will vote on the elections scheduled for the day and will vote on the place of residence, it is recorded in local self-government. Given that the record is unique, that it is a direct copying of the database we have in Belgrade, and that it is being printed from the electoral lists only from that Belgrade base, it is impossible to have any problems with it, let's say, taking a second picture. As you have seen, we have predicted that these data are entered as well for abroad, to be entered and to be deleted after the elections have been made until the next elections. Each of us can find himself somewhere outside of the residence and say, "I want to vote in the election," here, let me vote here. So, it's a matter of pure technique, informers. I'm a lawyer, you're a mathematician, it's supposed to be closer to you, but it's definitely something that, as explained to me, is not at all a complicated engineering procedure, and it's going to be possible for every citizen. Remember, that is the right of all our citizens who are abroad. They already have that right. They say, "I will vote, I will stay on that day and on that day." And even those who travel officially say, "I will vote here and here." In the last government, I remember that one of the co-workers from the other ministry told me – when the elections are, I don't know where I'm going to be and I'm going to vote there and there; he can vote where he is right now. If they can do so, why can't we, within the state's borders, arrange such a simple process as voting towards the place of residence? I'm saying again, I'd like you to respect this argument. Keep in mind how many thousands of students, in the end, in order to meet their voting obligation, have to get on the train, and take the train somewhere, travel, or by buses, to vote that weekend, and return to the place of residence. There's something else I need to say. They were all really in power here. Everyone's had a chance to pass this law and I'm sorry that no one's ever done it before. I think now that this ruling majority is going to pass the law and I'm sure, I'm telling you honestly now, that no one else is going to change it for many more years, at least not in these essential provisions that could be the subject of criticism. One of these is that our fellow citizens are given the opportunity to vote towards the place of residence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29926	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Zoran Shami, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29927	Thank you. Just a few more sentences, just to give Mr. Secretary the opportunity to read our amendment one more time. As for giving information to election participants in electronic form, it can't be misused for the campaign, because we didn't ask for a name, no last name, no address, we asked for an exclusive list of home numbers and it can't be misused in the campaign. I know what you mean, that's why we did it so that there's no name and last name and address, there's only home numbers and there's a place where it's from. I don't believe it can be misused in the campaign, but it can be valuable to control whether there are doubles, whether there are made-up ones, that I'm not teaching you something that you know perfectly well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29928	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29929	I understood, and I followed well, and since then, when you were very nice when we talked about numbers and numbers, so I've been following your amendments. The mother number is the most important in that entire data set. The mother number in Serbia is, unfortunately, 'talking' and I think you know it. We have a 13-digit number and it's a speaking number. It's one of the grudges being put on us, and we'll probably be out with the new law in a little while, I guess. So our home number in EU-based standards goes over one digit, but that's not his biggest problem. His biggest problem is that "talking" is number. I'm not sure if I could use all 13 digits, but, like everyone in this room, I know what it means first, if I'm not mistaken, 11, or at least the first nine, everyone knows it. That's my fear. I don't see that that's very important, and I'm more afraid of opportunities, to tell you the truth, abuses. Remember, not only do these big parties not participate in the election, you know, but there are always different people. I'm not in favour of giving birth numbers, no matter what the name and last name of the person whose home number is, at least not when we have talking home numbers. That they're "unspeakable" numbers, even somehow, but we have "talking" parent numbers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29930	Thank you. Mr. Rangelovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29931	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have a very important law ahead of us. I would say, of all the laws that the ministry has proposed, this is the only one that is absolutely necessary. About the importance of the single voter list is said a lot here and I don't want to repeat it. We know what problems the lack of a complete single ballot made during the elections in the 1990s, during the elections that were happening very soon, and as someone who teaches the history of the rights I know and what problems it has created in the history of the Serbian state at all. For example, when the elections were held under the 1869 Constitution, or at the time of the Constitutional Committee's work in 1878, we remember the speech of Radical Ranko Tajsic, who was just presenting problems with the exercise of electoral rights, those problems that followed us through history, until today. The importance of the reason for passing this law, too, I wouldn't talk too much. They were given clearly enough in an explanation. We all know how important these reasons are and how important it is to pass one of these laws. Also, I would not repeat what the respected predecessors have already stated, but, according to what I now intend to say, I would ask some questions about what is said both in the text of the law and in the reasoning that follows the text of the law. Of course, it is very important to establish this internal control and that, by centralising this control of the possible abuse of the single electoral list, it comes down to a minimum, but it is also conditioned by some very specific questions, which I would like to hear the answer about, at least some of the questions raised some clarity for me. First of all, my question concerns the technique of functioning what Mr. Minister was talking about. In fact, it is a good solution to allow all citizens to exercise their right to vote with minimal efforts and to vote in their residence, but it is not the clearest technology to prevent abuse. I would also ask the question – what if until the next election there is no technological possibility for the application of what is in this law, and cannot be voted without abuse in the place of residence, and, on the other hand, the voter is denied the rights given by this law? How will such cases be solved? I'd like to ask a question about the exercise of the diaspora's electoral right. We have often had more members of the election board in the diaspora than those who went to the polls. I would also ask the question – how will all the technical problems that have been encountered so far in the diaspora vote be solved? Finally, I would ask the minister to give clarification on how to provide the necessary financial resources to achieve this law. These are not so small funds, we also know that it is technologically very complicated that everything that is in this law is achieved, that it is technologically very complicated and expensive to bring this to a level where all abuses can be prevented. Here are some figures for the first, second and third year of functioning of this law. It is explained that the necessary resources do not cover the establishment of a reserve location and the cost of communication infrastructure, that funds from other sources will be provided, from the budget of the units of local self-government and the National Investment Plan. In my opinion, this is not given in the clearest way, and I would like the National Assembly to have an explanation of how the financing of all that is necessary for the implementation of this law will be achieved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29932	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word. Mr Milan Markovic, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29933	Very briefly, again voting towards the place of residence. Five days before the conclusion, the possibility of him applying to vote towards the place of residence is concluded. Since the system is unique, any change will be taken as soon as possible and on the central database, and the copy will be printed exclusively from the central database, so it is impossible. It is possible that someone may fail in time to ask for a vote towards the residence, but it is impossible for someone to stay at both residence and residence. It's just impossible, physically impossible, because there's only one database to print, one name, last name and one column. No way. As far as this abroad is concerned, you're absolutely right. Now 58 thousand people are registered in a special record, and it only voted 14,000, let's say, or 18,000. That is why we have now foreseen in the law that all these options for voting towards the residence are always deleted after the elections have been held. When the new elections are up, everyone re-applys, I, you, anyone, where they vote, so it's re-entered, and when the elections go through, it's all erased again. Now we're going to have a completely real picture. On this basis, RIK, I hope that until then we will have a state electoral commission, this central electoral authority, will be able to have a clear picture of where these voting places should be, or where it will be pointless, as it has been, that there are more people in the polling post than voters, so I think your example is right. I think this law solves that problem you've listed. As far as money is concerned, as they say - money is not a problem, money is not a problem, money is not a problem. In line with the budget and capabilities of the National Investment Plan, we will see what opportunities will be. My experience, according to the creation of a unique records for the parent books, is that the funds are a problem, but I sincerely hope that this project will have the resources, which from the budget, from the National Investment Plan, and that we can rely on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29934	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29935	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, I think that, however, we are going over some laws and we allow many ministers, when they come to Parliament, to begin to convince us and every moment to replicate us, so that we are leading the maltenes, the controversy about whether something should be done, whether it's okay or not. That's very incorrect. I would ask that in the future, because of Parliament as an institution, when word is given and when debate is opened, participants in the debate respect the Rules of Procedure. We can't have ministers every minute, like there have been previous sessions, and it always happens, here, today, that says ten for one word. Then they convince public opinion that they're absolutely right and burying what's the idea of preventing a variety of malfeasances. The polling lists have been a major problem for Serbia for years. The ruling coalition has always used voter lists. This is what we have in the Milosevic case, during his rule, which used voters' lists in various ways, abused voters, and we have always had some false elections, which did not reflect the true state of the people. It's a similar case now. These days, on Vozdovec, people are intensively brought in and reported. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary to control it a little bit. Now we want to manipulate, for example, cities where there are extremely many students, and this specifically refers to these partial elections that take place in certain environments. A number of voters may be funny, but for example, In one Leprechaun, in one Vorbas, a thousand voters means a lot. In Koserić, 500 voters win. You made a victory there for one councilman, so 50 votes, 20 votes won. Therefore, I ask you to be very careful and not to make up a pothole now, so that the voter can vote on the temporary place of residence. The permanent place of residence, that was always the way. So where a man lives, where he exists, where he runs, he has to choose and vote, and not like this, we're gonna walk voters, we're gonna have some walking voters, which are gonna be very hard to control. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, we have a lot of problems with you, we opposition MPs. There's nothing going on with you lately. I don't know what's going on with you guys. Do you ever think, do you have any meetings of the ruling coalition to find solutions to problems that accumulate from day to day? We saw it today. You haven't known for two years to make a simple passport. Why? Why do you keep letting the same people make some shit? How come G17's making passports now? How come you can't solve the question of a vaccine now? You can't get the vaccine. In Serbia, hara flu, and you cannot open a tender, regulate the issue of vaccines, solve some of the most fundamental problems in the country. We have a minister who shows up and says, "There's no room for panic." For example, in one Russia, where there are 200 million people, 14 people died, and with us, with eight million, seven people died. The question is alarming. You are now allowing some of the leaders of some suspicious parties to create a policy for you of the ruling coalition. You're trying to make amendments to the order of those who should, perhaps, and criminally answer for what they're doing. You negotiate with them, you talk, you negotiate with them, and all of this is round to me, and to the corners, so to speak, therefore, the elections are inevitable in Serbia. You can't handle it. That's why you're doing something with the voter lists again. Again, you want to make yourself comfortable, for your own parties, etc. I can't explain to you right now, your members of the government are making more parties. You support them, you collect signatures, you from the ruling coalition, you make them parties. Where did they get the funds? People are starving in Serbia. I listen every day, at least that's what they say, that food is the cheapest in Serbia's history, when the biggest birth year, when the apple is three dinars, the milk of 15 dinars, the wheat of eight dinars, and you say you have 700,000 people starving, while the ministers, which you're pecking into gold, are making parties out of the dock. Let's have another game. Maybe she'll need it somewhere. We'll make all kinds of combinations. You just combine something and you think you're running a marketing business, and you don't solve ordinary life problems. How can you not solve any problems that are evident? Here, today I consulted three of your professors from the Medical School – all three professors have different opinions about vaccines and flus. Now you're opening up some offers; that's funny. I'm asking you to come to your senses. Here, recently in Medvedja, when elections were held, Albanians from Albania came to the buses for free, and voted for mayor. Why? Because that's where the biggest meat smuggling is. Meat is inserted from Brazil, meat from Argentina, meat of suspicious origin, and enters Serbia mass. Who allows it? Why is that allowed? Where did you get these people? They come in, enroll themselves in the list of elections, and whoever thinks of it, lives wherever he wants, and comes in, they sign in, they record it, and there is no problem. That's not good at all. Especially now, I'm warning you because of this election on the Leader. Get a commission to check how many people are enrolled these days in the electoral lists on the Leader. Who made that possible? It's going to be a very tight situation on the Leader, and it's very important to get rid of it. You have no control. You can't solve the most common problems in the country. You need to sit down and make a deal. I know it would be best for you now to introduce that there is an epidemic in Serbia, that Parliament does not do anything, that it does nothing. You're tired, you don't know what you're going to do with yourself, it's the end of the year, you don't have the means, you need money, you've promised a lot, you can't keep it, and, of course, in this situation, it's best to say – people, come home, sit down and enjoy yourself. Then what will the health care that we've invested millions in take over? We'll see, but we can see you're incompetent. Get on TV, the most responsible people in health – only they don't fight in front of the cameras. We don't know anything anymore. This people are confused. We don't know what's being bought anymore. We don't know what's going on. We don't know what's going on. People buy everything from onions, bacon, what they get. It's not normal anymore. Sit down in the government and talk about what you want and how you want, what you intend and how you do it. Get organized anywhere. In agriculture and ransom, you didn't know you were organizing, it was a disaster. In construction, here's the same man who didn't know how to make a passport for years, so he didn't know how to solve the vaccine issue, so he didn't know how to solve the issue of epidemics, etc., or a group of people who are now coming forward, ultimately asking them to build highways. Well, that's impossible. All the problems they solve have been ruined, and now give them the jurisdiction of highways and apartments. I remember some previous years – 100,000, 200,000, for nothing, "you just walk in and you're done" – you know that foreign exchange of yours in banks? Nothing's over -- Serbia's going down clean. I'm really asking you to come to your senses and see what you want, where you've taken us. You're the ruling coalition. Don't take it out. You vote the Information Act and after 15 days you say the Information Act is wrong, it needs to be changed. Then a group comes out and says, well, that doesn't matter, we're in the ruling coalition anyway; we're in the government, but we didn't vote for the law. Everyone in the government is responsible for this law. That law, according to the government's proposal, came in here. You're responsible because you passed that law. We can't vote for the same laws every month. Why? Because you make a compromise to extend the government's duration for a month or two, so you accept everything and everything. Please, you sitting in government, if you want a table of jurisdiction to pass on to the Vojvodina, a hundred of your responsibilities, what will you do in the Government? Let's cut you down, or we'll have to cut you by as much per cent as you transfer jurisdiction. I don't understand why you should sit down, what Dragin will do if he transfers all jurisdiction to Vojvodina. To be us in the Woodland Minister of New Sad, is that right? It doesn't – it's black-headed us over the past year and a half, two days anyway. Therefore, I ask you to come to your senses. Take a day off and sit somewhere for the weekend, people – make a deal whatever you want. Don't just come to Parliament – we one, you ten, cover right now. You're starting to tell us stories. Here, today you're replicating some nonsense. Can you make that passport or not even know how to make it? What's the problem with printing out a new passport? The problem is – we know where, but you won't solve it, because you can't. Your government falls if you solve that problem. Also, you can't solve a thousand other problems and always bury them. It takes someone outside to invite you, to gather you and to calm you there, to unite you, etc. That doesn't look like anything, Mr. Secretary. Please, reason with your colleagues in the government. Sit down, negotiate whatever you want, and then go out to the congregation. Be clear, be loud and specific. Here, now you see that your health care isn't working. The other day, the biggest disgrace occurred at the Serbian Academy of Sciences; your health minister comes out and runs for academics and gets 10 votes from such an Academy of Sciences. He was to resign immediately, because, imagine, one minister came out of five consecutive mandates and received 10 votes from 170 members of the Academy who voted. It's a disgrace for Serbia, it's a disgrace for all of us here. Turns out that's where Parliament put him. Whatever you ask him, there is no room for panic. Please, your officials from the ruling coalition are going on TV and they're bringing out such dirty laundry that we're more sick of watching and listening, because it's more impossible. Here, now you've confused us so much – an epidemic has arisen, and there's no one serious in the government to come out and say, to turn to the people. If it was luck, we'd be discussing it here too. The health minister would come to inform Serbia, to inform Parliament what it is. So, you're talking to each other, you're putting us in big trouble, and then we don't know what we're going to do and where we're going to go. So this isn't all going well. You have one permanent group that literally does whatever it wants to do, whatever it takes to do, it ruins it. You take action, they ruin it. You take this, they destroy it. You take another investment – they destroy, health care – ruin, youth – ruin, sport. You brought sports clubs to the brink of war. This doesn't look like anything. What do we do now? Keep some workshops all over Serbia. There's something you're beating up with some workshops, you're going, you're traveling. You're reporting what you're doing and how you're doing it. It doesn't all lead to anything. So get serious, because the situation in Serbia has become very complicated. It's a lot of dissatisfaction. There's a lot of big problems you don't solve. We enter the finale of the year without rebalancing. I don't know how you operate in the government -- with a budget that no one has seen, and you haven't consulted anyone. Here, Malten, in a month you will come to Parliament with the Statute of Vojvodina, with a transfer of jurisdiction, with a thousand problems. You're all thinking here in a few days to finish. I ask that these sessions no longer last after 18 hours, because the epidemic is ruling in Serbia. Don't be surprised, Mrs. Comic. You can't have a session of the Assembly for 15 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29936	National MP, I remind you of the obligation of Article 103(1). Rules of Procedure. Please speak for the remaining five minutes and 30 seconds about the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29937	I'm talking about the point, this is all connected, but please don't leave five or six MPs here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29938	On the basis of the same Article 103(3), the MP shall be chaired by an obligation to remind the MP of his obligations under the Rules of Procedure. Please, in 14 minutes and 30 seconds, all of what you have mentioned, until the end of the time you have at your disposal – both the epidemic and the incompetent government and your position on the difficulties that Serbia has, bring about what is on the agenda. The draft law on the single voter list is on the agenda. Please respect that position of article 1 103 and use the time until the end to talk about the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29939	Madam Chairman, don't interrupt me. I just wanted to remind you that we're working out some very important things. But now I ask you specifically, since you know everything, you are our smart lady in Parliament, when you sit behind a pay phone, the treasure of us – should we be vaccinated or not? Answer me that, because you're a great expert.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29940	People's MP, your dilemma whether to vaccinate or not to link to the bill on a single voter's list. I'm warning you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29941	It's not an insult. This question means life for Serbia. This question for Serbia means life, please, ma'am. This is an important question for us. I have five children. What do I do? Should I vaccinate them or not? What do you say? Please, you didn't bring the minister here to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29942	National MP, the number of children you have, were your children alive, and connect the dilemmas around the vaccine to the topic of the agenda. We are discussing the draft law on a single voter's list. Therefore, Article 103(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29943	Is it going to be vaccinated on the polling list? Here, Minister, let's ask. Are we going to go to the vaccine and sign, refuse, etc.? It really doesn't make sense. Please, let's get serious and get this in order. Don't make a mess now. I know what's bothering you and why the voter lists should change now. You want to push your voters, your youth, the students who are with you, on the Leader. That's a fact. That's what you're gonna do. That's what you need now, to wave afterwards if you won. You can't do that. This Parliament cannot allow such things. We won't let that happen. And you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, then you don't have to call the election; take it yourself and do whatever you want, but take responsibility, take it, gentlemen, responsibility. I don't want to bother you, it's not worth telling you, I notice that. Here, when Mrs. Djukic arrives, I'll continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29944	The minister is registered in the electronic system. He doesn't want a word. Otherwise, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Minister has the right to receive a word whenever requested and I ask the MPs to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the participants of the sitting. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29945	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club thinks it is necessary to pass a law on a single voter's list, which will better regulate the records of all voters in Serbia, so that certain mistakes, or inconsistencies, or something more difficult, would not be repeated in future elections. According to the current way the voter lists operate, it is certain that there have been problems both in the 1990s and after 2000, more or less. Of course, it depended on many factors, in the end line, there must be people who are prone to abuse and such species. It is unnecessary to qualify that the 1990s were so black, in the sense that such electoral lists and such records of voters at the time made the SPS, with its coalition, rule for 10 years... (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. )......................................................................................................... and that this rule is based solely on the abuse and use of such electoral lists and such records, which has made such results. Mr. Krassic, I'll stop to hear what you say. If you have anything to say, say it later. Don't bother me, please. I respect you very much, and I don't disturb you when you speak, I'm listening. Thank you. I recall that in the 1990s, more than five or six years, etc., in many cities and many local self-governments at the time, those who speak of these 90s today ruled in some negative context. Does this mean that such voter records at the time were used in such a way as the ruling party that ruled at the republican level? I think it is crazy to talk about it and collect political points continuously, and after 10 years, when Slobodan Milosevic, in power, and the coalition that was before, is now the subject of talks and some pointing in a political sense. We need to talk here about what is a new quality in keeping voter records, establishing a single voter list that will allow as little abuse as possible, as little error as possible, as accurately as possible involving voters in expressing their national will when we come to the elections. Of course, this bill has certain qualities and certain logic that follows. It is very important that the Ministry of State Administration is, in fact, the subject responsible for the single electoral list, and that the functioning of the entire system is established through entrusted affairs to city and municipal administrations, avoiding doing so in a different way, through the creation of a special network, as an exposition of the outreach units of the ministry, which would increase the republican administration, and the quality would remain the same. Assuming that the ministry will exercise sound and constant supervision of entrusted transactions in local self-government and city self-government, the job will take place in the best possible way. Of course, the SPS Club also has certain dilemmas about the legal solutions that have been given here, not arguing that such solutions are not working, but some solutions need to be discussed and clarified, so that we have a clear picture of what is a comprehensive set of electoral lists that should be used for elections. So the question is how well the solution is to function the election around the place of residence. It is a good solution in the sense that we are approaching voters the opportunity to express their will in the place of residence, considering that these voters are probably busy and have some of their professional and other obligations and that it is simple for them to present their will in the place of residence through voting in the polling post. It is easy to implement and there are no dilemmas about elections for the President of the Republic or MPs in this House, of course, under the applicable law for the Republic MPs. But there remains a big dilemma about how good it is when it comes to local elections, because those people who apply to vote in the place of residence should vote for those lists and those candidates who are candidates in the place of residence in the local self-government. The question is, how many of these voters are integrated and present in the right sense of words in solving these local problems, and how interested are they in all of this at the local level, where they live? Perhaps, however, they are more interested in order things through their voice in the place of residence? The next question that we do not see clearly here, we from the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, is the issue of internally displaced persons, which are said in Article 6(3) – internally displaced persons are listed in the voter list according to the place in which they are registered as internally displaced persons. Through this attitude, they become part of the electoral list, i.e. a copy of the ballot in the place where they are displaced. Does that mean they're voting for those lists in that place where they're displaced and they're losing every link in terms of expressing their electoral will where their residence is, where they used to be? This means that, in practice, KIM ties are being cut off and that there are no more voters who have moved from there and gone by force, so that there are far fewer people left to appear in terms of a statement and in a function of choosing in those areas. We've been thinking about it. For example, article 19 states that there are special copies of the voter lists, and this applies to soldiers and voters who are in support of the office’s sanctions. Could it have been a better solution for another category of special polling lists to be precisely for these displaced persons and in such a way that they would be able to vote for lists per place of residence, which also has its profound political meaning? We may not have understood all these questions enough, but we need to come to this through conversation and to clarify this in the right way. When it comes to voters who have registered residence abroad, I think the quality is to be guided as permanent data in the voter's list that these people have a place of residence abroad, and remains their right to declare, after the election is called, whether they will vote in a place of residence abroad, which they can express through diplomatic and consular representation, or in the country, in local self-government, or in the municipal or city administration, up to five days before the voter lists are concluded. The question is, how will voters or persons who have a residence abroad, who have signed up to vote there, exercise their right to vote locally? These are some solutions that have remained in general systemization and definitions, general definitions of this law, which do not give a clear answer to these very important issues, which are of vital interest to what is a statement of will in Serbia. We believe that the proposed law is progressing in editing the single voter records and we support the establishment of such a single record. However, we believe that there is room to improve certain provisions, which this debate will, I believe, give as a result. If there are any issues that are not best resolved, we will be able to initiate some changes soon, which I hope will be supported by most of this Parliament, of course, if we notice that they are essential and that they contribute to the improvement of this matter and this very important document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29946	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29947	Of course, Mrs. Comic, it's a 100th member in connection with Article 103, pardon, 104. What's this about? Let me explain. Whomever respects him is one dimension of this business and I respect Mr. Mihajlovic. But what he said at first really offends the dignity of all the MPs, especially my dignity. I know what the elections were in May 1992, so let me skip December 1992, let me tell you what they were like in December 1993, let me tell you what the elections were like in December 1996, let me tell you about four election rounds in 1997, let me tell you what they were like in December 2000, under the provisions of this law on the selection of MPs. Please, talk about everything being regular, so you have Veljko Odalovic, the creator of all election thefts on KIM. Have you seen the footage of what happened to the radicals in Peca and the local places in 1997? There is no Petar Jojic, who burned his car in Gjilan in 1997. And you're talking about regular elections. Do you remember the 1996 Lex specialist? Please, have some dignity. In addition, the SRS wrote a constitutional appeal on over 1,500 sides for all irregularities that occurred in polling stations. And you're talking about some things. I don't want to open the subject of the bill now, because the time will come, but, please, take care, however, of the basic respect for common sense in people who are more than 50 years old, who remember what it was all about. I'm not just criticizing you, these are even more sophisticated in these issues. They're even worse than you, absolutely worse. But take care of your dignity. I don't want to tell you about what the voter lists on KIM look like today. Except for the name and last name, there's almost no record. Now you're saying some things. You can tell that to someone else. You can talk on your local board, the municipal board, but don't talk to people from the SRS, who know very well, since they're lawmakers too...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29948	Two minutes. Thank you. Mr. MP, there's no breach of Article 104. I ask you, in your polemics and in your speeches, which you have and under Article 100, to take care precisely of the respect of Article 104, to take care of your responsibility for the public word, because, in an attempt to explain that the injured member is 104, you have done multiple injuries from that member. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29949	Ladies and gentlemen, today, we have before us a bill that has, in fact, been made by copying 12 members from one law and passing as a form...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29950	People's MP, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm asking the Members of Parliament to take a look at a member relating to the granting of the right to the replica, Article 101(3). The chairman makes a decision, it is not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but is the right and obligation of the chairman. National MP Zoran Krasic has been warned and the replica is missing. Please don't break the Rules of Procedure by throwing them out of place. Here you go, MP, 30 seconds higher than the time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29951	So it basically came about by copying 12 members of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, Chapter 3. Chapter III, and derived from this skeleton and the basis of the new law. He was also given a new name – a law on a single polling list, and as such should be a good, nice solution, an acceptable solution for reliable, safe, safe and from any theft and from any ambiguity and unforeseen circumstances protected voters. Analyzing the fact that it is now in 30 members, approximately, done with those 12 members and, practically, with a copy-pass, theoretically put it back into that law, that it will function as new, so that it will be applied accordingly in the former law and in the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic, we are on the trail to conclude that this law will not be as unique as it may be a united law. So, even here, globally, in Article 26 and Article 27, it implies the possibility that units of local self-government, as their trusted, so far done jobs, are updating their voter lists, and then delivering it back to the Ministry and so the Ministry is initially forming its own database, which should then be under its control; then it would probably be unique and there would be several other competences of the general type which would form the basis for this law to be declared such that it constitutes a uniqueness of insight and control of the voter list. It would be good for the law to be so good that no one on the side ever regulates the right to vote, nor assesses the electoral theft, creates internal political events. It should be so that those who feel that way about the voter's failure, or the voter's exit, which is not in the voter's list, or 'dead souls', or anything else. We're not just sure that this is a real and unique solution. Will the “single” sign really enable a unique record? In fact, if we look for the Ministry to prescribe the contents of the voter's list, and the minister - to be guided by the Ministry, what are they essentially doing? They analyze the state of the voter's list, the majority of their inter-election period between the two elections, or maybe it's on the trail of information that the elections will be, so the city's administrations will quickly drop parts of the voter lists, thus the citizens themselves gain the opportunity to see what is wrong in the voter's list, and then correct it, or it will really be on a long stick and a long rope, and then there will be an expression of the efficiency and awareness of local authorities in self-government, in municipalities of the city, which should update those lists. The other kind of activity of the ministry, within that unique operation, is to make changes, and only up to 15 days when the elections are held. Is it going to be up-to-date in that period, according to the department's jurisdiction? This is the first direct moment in which the Ministry takes over the direct update of the list. The rest of the work called updating, which de facto is, is what the Ministry is doing so far, analysing, making changes, etc. Update, by definition, says – makes changes. In the relevant article is the same in brackets as in the obligation of local self-government, which now calls only by updating the entry of new voters, data correction, correction of inaccuracy, printing, etc. Will this activity, and in what way, be motivated and repaired only by the fact that a powerful electronic system will be introduced, which is obviously supposed to be vertically linked by the Ministry and the units of local self-government, city and municipal administrations, which should be bodies that, in the most part of inter-election time, are doing this job in normal circumstances, and the Ministry quickly, on a hot line, serve them in a time of fifteen days until the elections themselves are held? It's one of the rough misunderstandings, which raises the question whether we're on our way to getting united again, instead of the single voter list, which was a global grudge not only by political parties, but also by so-called political parties. NGOs that were involved in the analysis of the quality of our voter lists? When it is viewed by members and by the problems we have encountered in the election period of previous years, it is obvious that perhaps in this way we will not solve some of them without sufficient urgency from local authorities, who are also working as a trusted job, which remains to them as such. Are we really going to be able to stop meeting the fact that after five or six years, a dead person is on the ballot? It's a problem of another kind; where a person died, it's not the place of her residence. This communication, sometimes even two neighbouring cities, 30-40 km away, has been unsupervised for several years and every time puts citizens, a relative who is there, when he receives an invitation to vote for his deceased member, in an unfavourable situation. He's supposed to do it, go ask for it himself, but most citizens, only when he gets that paper, that call, that pantyhose from the tape, and he sees that she's invited to the election, he starts or doesn't move around. There's a complete lack of communication in the horizon. Does this mean that now the parent services, other types of records, other services and records bodies will be networked across Serbia? If so, then perhaps it can be understood that it will cost 250 million dinars. We have little left this year, two months, in a year, two years. That's how much money should be invested, which is in hardware, which is in software programs. It will be a source of possible different abuses, guessing the tender, deciding who will take what and how it will finally work. Because when we read the law, it usually contains particularly weak points that could potentially be a stumbling block for this to really be one law that you want to show, good, European, etc. Are we going to be able to update local self-government units, where, in half of them, there is only one man, one person, one clerk who deals with the problem of the record? Will this mean hiring new or excessive responsibilities placed on the shoulders of that one man, or the head of the general affairs involved? This would mean that everything would be up to date, especially in situations where elections would come quickly, that a new number of executives must be hired, because not so often the crowds of people go to elections, and that in the polling list, in their polling post, they do not find themselves in it, even though they were in the previous elections. The explanation they later get is that, for example, a building was built, so now instead of one building there is a housing facility with 4.5 floors. They've all changed addresses, lamelas, changed the number of apartments, and these people are no longer covered by a single voter's list, which means that some other institutions, other than those that the law provides, must be those that are the authorities of the records, which will deliver it, let's say, to the Ministry of the Interior. The question is, will everyone run to change their ID when they change their place of residence? The question is, will the ones who got married, the wife, when they changed their last name, go and change their ID card, and then the address, so it can be found on the record? What will be done immediately, expressly, on official duty? What will the Ministry of the Interior, which now has direct communication with the Ministry of Administration and local self-government, send these data directly to the Ministry, and return it to the local self-government unit, and in circumstances in which it lasts for the last 15 days until the elections, when a single list appears and when it is concluded, and in the circumstances of regular functioning and data delivery, where they are now not going according to the horizon – that the home unit of the Ministry of Interior also sends such data to local self-government, or to those in charge, as records authorities, to pass such data on to the resolution authority? So, the question of networking and the density of that network, will it also be by vertical and per user, for those who will have the parent books? The parent books of the born and dead are the basic ones; the parent books of the married ones are important. The important thing is that it will be found at the Criminal Sanctions Office, and certain social institutions will have their objections, for some of their protégés who are there, that they will be dislocated from their residence addresses, and there is no one for them to advocate and report them to the voter's list. Will they be covered by special lists? In general, the term "special", "separated lists"— loses the meaning of that word, if several species are already being created, and we have heard of a third kind of specificity, etc. At the time when elections have been declared, local self-government is obliged to go out with what it currently owns, which is a voter list that exists and is not obliged to contain a unique home number of citizens, to throw out and declare through the media how citizens can find out, and that is part of the electoral list and is completely different from the copy that the Ministry will later, through RIK, through the "Official Messenger", forward to each local self-government unit, and by the exact number of polling stations, that they know exactly from the voter list. It's often a distance from, say, two months. A particular problem arises when it comes to local self-government elections, republican elections and, for example, the president's elections. Two basic choices, which apply to the whole territory, and those that are strictly specific, when it comes to local -- how on these occasions will a correction of what is on the part of the electoral list highlighted in the local self-government, from the unique birth number, will all citizens, if it was not a unique home number in the previous list, be able to do so, and we do not have a horizontal, when the MUP would immediately send it to the relevant services, to automatically correct it in the list?- I'm sorry. Art. On 26th and 27th, local self-government is obliged to move into the business immediately after the law has been declared valid after entry into force, after Boris Tadic has signed it. The question is, with the penalties that are, but numerically, and with the degree of technological connection, will it be able to achieve everything? Furthermore, when we look at the technology of resolution on official duty or at the request of citizens, there are procedures in which some forms, some obligations of those who are organ bearers, bearers of records. So someone wants to change their last name, change their address, etc. It takes three days for an authority providing such paper to send such a service to the authority issuing the solution, which is local self-government, and three days to obtain a citizen's solution, plus if the MUP is involved, the job will now be extended. Often, whoever goes alone, therefore, at the personal request of the citizens, will be obliged to do so on his own. The question is the necessity of electronic communication, how much will it benefit him at that time? In previous election cycles, we also met with the appearances that people who were in the polling stations appear in a completely different election place. It was probably the machinations of those who were at the level of local self-government; it was often done by single parents, in 10% of municipalities, as a job that was subsequently assigned to them during the election campaign, so when elections were declared, rarely when individual and professional services and, as a rule, depended on the size of the municipality, on the number of its administration. So they weren't in the reelections in their seats. How will a person who can vote, deciding that, apart from his residence, in a reasonable period of time, show the need to vote in the place of residence, while both the republican and local elections are present, be able to vote for local elections? For example, someone who studies in Belgrade, so it's on the Municipality of Starship, what does he even know about these candidates who will be there and won't be able to vote where local elections are held that day? Will she understand the need or will she decide for herself what is preferential to her, that she has to do it there, only in one place? This is one of the technical misunderstandings offered by the proposed solution, so we think that there are some weaknesses that the law carries and which, in its very essence, will not be unique and will not be the one that will enable us to avoid the ambiguities that existed before. When it comes to the KIM elections, there's almost no mention of anything in any sentence. We have heard from the people who have already spoken, from the MPs, that it will be a very specific situation. How many records are preserved, how many people who have been relocated, whether in the process of returning or not, but who have definitely temporarily left their residences, have come to Serbia, are administratively bound to certain municipalities in Serbia? For example, Pec is tied to Kragujevac and now someone has registered there at the moment the pogrom was happening, now lives in Belgrade, Arangelovac or elsewhere. Now there is a particular problem for a part of that information that is considered to be information from the records authorities, because their municipality is functionally and technically related to another city, another municipality. There will then be problems; not only will they decide on local elections in Belgrade, what they know about it at all, but also to exercise their right to vote for the president of the Republic or in parliamentary elections. So there are several reasons that tell us that this solution isn't ideal, that it won't solve the ambiguities that we had until the end. For example, notices that citizens seek during pre-election operations, so within a reasonable time when they can do so, they come across the arrogance of the administration, in which one administrative officer is unable to answer what is in their list and what needs to be changed. We cannot allow, in the affairs of citizens' application, to be punished and exposed to chicane, although there is a proposal that penalties are greater for those who are unsupervised, and that may only apply to those who are truly organised technically, have a sufficient number of those who can participate in this business, so that they can adequately resolve it...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-09-0.u29952	National MP, for today we have not extended our work, and I am obliged to determine the completion of the afternoon work at 18 hours, regardless of what you have at your disposal for another three minutes and 30 seconds to complete your presentation as an authorised representative of the Group of Representatives, Forward Serbia. So, for today, we finish our work and continue tomorrow, 10:00, Tuesday, November 10th. The work in the morning section begins with a debate under Article 235, and after we return to the debate on the draft law, MP Mileta Poscurica will have the right to continue immediately, if he wishes, or after we have finished the debate in principle. Thank you.
