ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, we have before us a set of economic laws, as well as a proposal for a tourism law. I'll focus on this tourism law. Otherwise, I must at first express my regret that this law has not passed a public debate and that there are no opinions of tourist workers incorporated here, and our opinion is that the public debate and how important it was for this law. This law was proposed by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. I'm sure everyone here in the O.R., at least declared, stands for even and regional development. These are European tendencies, European principles, this is our and constitutional obligation under Article 94. What's absurd is that this law doesn't have a "r" of even regional development at all, it's typically centralist law. We from southern Serbia, where I come from, and how we expected this law and we saw a chance in this social action. Our wish is to take crumbs of that tourism revenue, which is about a billion euros, according to the Minister of Economy and Regional Development. I say this for one simple reason, because the south of Serbia has beautiful areas and has beautiful tourist destinations. He's in the state, and he's on local self-government just to make them a little bit better. By the way, southern Serbia is the poorest part of Serbia. I'll tell you one more thing, that there's more than 2,200 residents moving out of that space annually, and we rightly expect the government to stop this migration process and to finally keep people in their seats. And since physics doesn't know about the empty space, then you know who's going to move that part of southern Serbia. What I wanted to tell you plastically is what tourist destinations and what natural beauty southern Serbia has. Namely, the south of Serbia is extremely rich in spas, I will start with Kursumlijska Banja, then, Prolo Banja, next to Prolom Banja, is also known as the new world miracle – Djavolja Varoš, well, Sijarinska Banja, a spa that has about 17 healing sources and the only geyser in Europe. I can say that the government of Vojislav Kostunica and how much it has done for the development of this spa infrastructure. - We've built a few cascade pools next to the geyser himself, the Olympic pool and a lot of things. Also, at this point I must commend then-Infrastructure Minister Velimir Ilic, who has paved every time to all these tourist destinations. If we go a little further south, then we'll see that we have two more spas down there, it's Bujanovska Banja and Vranjska Banja, with its specific features. You probably didn't know that in southern Serbia there is the largest artificial lake in the Balkans, and that's Lake Vlassin. It is an unbranded pearl beneath Mount Cemernik and I am really sorry that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development did not invest much in that part of Serbia, in the Vlasin Lake, and I do not understand why a new ski centre was not built there, and you have built ski centres in some places where the altitude is 500 meters, which either have snow in the winter or have very little. Also, in southern Serbia there are a large number of monasteries, I'll mention one, and you know it, it's Prohor Pcinski. Then in my neighborhood, next to Leskovec there are two monasterys, it is a monastery in the village of Yashunja and in the village of Golem Njiva. In southern Serbia there are historical excavations, it is Caric's town, Justinian Prima from the seventh century after the new era, a city that at the time had a water line and how interesting to see and to look at. What I also wanted to tell you is that we in southern Serbia see our chance on Corridor 10. In fact, since we're hearing dissonant tones from the government, it's possible that there's not enough resources to build Corridor 10, we're affected by it. Namely, in a conversation with current Minister Mrkonjic and Minister of Spatial Planning, Mr Oliver Dulic, we tried to change the course of 'Corridor 10', especially through the Grdelička gorge, because there is a tourist brand there, it is the "Predejane" motel. We had promises that this would happen because the Predejane motel is a generator for the development of that part of Serbia. In 2003, it was named the best privatisation in Serbia. Otherwise, the "Predejane" motel has been awarded prestigious awards for years, awards as the best tourist facility in the former Yugoslavia. Otherwise, the motel employs about 150 workers and feeds about 600 hungry mouths. For our poor neighborhood and how important it is that the Hotel Predejane will not become a appendix in the future but be on Corridor 10. It's a good thing you're here, Mrs. Kalanovic, because many local self-governments, who own these tourist destinations, competed with you in the National Investment Plan with their tourism projects, but the projects didn't pass, probably for one simple reason, because in those environments G17 doesn't participate, and then you didn't allow them to implement these quality tourism projects. What we are interested in and what we are interested in at this point, and as far as this law is concerned, which is why the tourist space manager has the right to prevent the purchase of buildings in that touristic space. Did this member tend to write, did certain tycoons already untapped certain tourist facilities, and will they, in future, have the right to prevent buying and purchase what is best in these tourist areas? The second thing, if this is proposed by the Ministry of Regional Development, is why this law puts out the regional tourism agency. In fact, in southern Serbia, we also wanted to organise a tourism organization that would be involved in promoting tourism in southern Serbia, promoting all of these destinations that I have told you about. We think that our amendment, which we have proposed, and how it should be adopted. We also think that the revenues from tourism and taxis go in parity – 80 per local budget and 20 per republican budget. We have proposed that in devasted areas, undeveloped areas, such as southern Serbia, this parity be 100% towards local budgets, as well as that there is no money missing from these local budgets for some other development projects. What is commendable is that you have proposed the categorization of certain objects and we welcome it. For example, the hotel-tourism company "Balkan" was privatised in Leskovac two years ago. This tourist and catering company has several hotels, motels, restaurants and, believe me, we have the most beautiful building in Leskovac, it is the Hotel "Dubocica" and today is a ruin. The investor started to do something, but for two years now, we've gotten nothing, even though it's the most beautiful building in Leskovac. This is why we welcome the payment of the penalty for non-tegorisation within two years. We've suggested one more thing: that those foam funds go half-half. It says, in that article, that the penalty is paid at 2m euros. So, nice, leave a million euros to local self-government and a million euros to the republican budget. These are the remarks that DSS MPs made through the amendments that we have made and I hope you will accept these amendments, because they have been amended and how they have been established and how much they will improve this law. What is important for us in southern Serbia, since Mladjan Dinkic is not there, I must ask you, Mrs Kalanovic, they are eager to expect those thousands of euros from the shares of the companies sold, because in southern Serbia they are living badly and they could use the thousands of euros that Mladjan Dinkic promised them in his campaign. We expect this to be realised and I expect you to give me an answer with a time-limited time when the citizens of southern Serbia, and even the citizens of Serbia, will receive those funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17443	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17444	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished Mrs Kalanovic, respected representatives of the Ministry of Economy, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the area of standardisation, as well as the area of technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, has been in the jurisdiction of the SRJ and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro since 2006. With this in mind, as well as the need to meet requirements for membership of the Republic of Serbia in the world trade organisation and the EU, it has proved necessary for the Republic of Serbia to pass laws in these areas. The standardisation law must be adopted primarily in order to comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and to improve the role of standardisation in the modernisation of the technical legislation of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to comply with the rules of the agreement on technical barriers to trade. It is also necessary to pass these laws in order to bring the role of standardisation into the legislation of the Republic of Serbia into line with the role of standardisation in EU legislation. Although solutions to the new standardisation law are fundamentally not significantly different from those of the current Standardisation Act, this law precisely regulates the relationship to border standardisation, rail, aviation, river traffic, legal position and organisation of the institutes, i.e. the national standardisation body, then, the primary use of international standards as the basis for making Serbian standards, then, the process of adopting Serbian standards and declaring that they have been adopted, as well as voluntary application of standards. It is also precise that the existing standards with mandatory application begin to apply as voluntary, or the date from which the provisions of the acts prescribed by the obligation to apply the standard are in force. Standardisation laws allow for: continue to take international and European standards into a system of Serbian standards; stakeholders in standardisation (business entities, public administration bodies, consumer associations) allow them to participate in the creation of standardisation policy and in the work of the Institute; information in standardisation areas, as well as the sale of international, European and other standards, developed, countries. When making the law, the proposer took into account: Directive 98/34 on the procedure for providing information in the field of standards and technical regulations; documents of the International Organisation for Standardisation and Responsibility for Functions in the field of standardisation of its members; Agreement on technical barriers to trade in the World Trade Organisation and its Annex – Code of Good Practice for the Construction, Making and Application of Standards, signed on 1 January 1998 by the Standardisation Institute, legal predecessor of the Institute, as a full member of the ISO; Conditions of the European Committee for Standardisation, as well as the European Committee for Standardisation in the Area of Electrical Engineering, which the Republic of Serbia and the Institute will have to meet in order to become a full member of those organisations; the legislator took into account the obligations arising from membership in international standardisation organisations and bodies of the United Nations. The global economy is widely integrated today, characterized by the growing flow of information and ideas, production factors and technology. Traditional barriers to trade, such as customs regulations, do not play the role they once played, primarily thanks to the new international trade policy. International negotiations on free trade at the global and regional level led by the World Trade Organisation or the United States of different regions have systematically reduced customs barriers, and are increasingly affecting the so-called ". non-tariff barriers in the store. The volume of the World Trade Exchange has increased multiple decades compared to the average annual rate of production development in the world. In the same period, the rapid increase in trade and the significant participation of the producers themselves and their corporate strategy in the global trade in goods led to quality becoming a key factor in export success. As a result, the importance of quality infrastructure is growing today, which is made up of standardisation, metrology, accreditation and conformity assessment systems as a basis for gaining confidence in the market and for achieving the competitiveness of products and services. As technologies become increasingly complex consumers and users of products and services, they become increasingly aware that they depend on a product whose construction and design are often not understood. Realising this, consumers want security that the product they use is reliable and that it will meet expectations regarding performance, security, sustainability and other criteria. The key question is – how can industry users or final consumers be sure that they have bought products that comply with the rules defining their safety before they are used. A new technical regulation is necessary to ensure a high level of protection of life, health and safety of people, animals and plants, environmental protection, consumer protection and other users, protection of property and protection of other public interests, on the one hand, as well as to provide a legal framework for the signing of technical requirements which will not create unnecessary barriers to trade, on the other hand. This can be achieved by regulating the market by prescribing technical requirements for products, thus ensuring that products that are in conformity with the regulations prescribed by the technical requirements are placed on the market of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that the objectives set for the safety of products on the market and the use can only be achieved through comprehensive operation. the adoption of technical regulations both in a manner and in accordance with this law, i.e. in accordance with specific laws, such as the Food Products Act, the Chemical Act, the adoption of a law on general product safety, as well as the application of the Act on the responsibility of the manufacturer for the matter of lack. In this way, the safety of products is regulated in the EU, or its Member States. The conformity assessment and product certification systems have just been developed to ensure consumer safety in such cases. Using standards in conformity assessment procedures allows through the harmonisation process around the world, not only facilitating international trade between countries, but also speeding up trade within individual countries, imposing obligations on suppliers of products and services to meet the prescribed requirements of their products and services. Conformity assessment procedures differ in different countries and can cause more serious technical barriers to trade than standards. Agreements on international recognition of the results of studies in the conformity assessment process, however, facilitate the acceptance of goods and services everywhere on the basis of only one assessment in one of the signatories countries, speeding up the exchange of goods and helping to make the system of international trade more efficient. According to the ISO/IEC standard, the 17000 conformity assessment is any activity which in a direct or indirect way determines that the process, product or service meets the relevant requirements, i.e. an activity that provides evidence that specific requirements relating to the product, service, process, system, person or body have been met. The assessment of consistency shall be explained as a series of three functions – selection, determination and reviewing and attestation, as the main activities that meet the needs or requirements to show whether specific requirements have been met. The conformity assessment may also include supervision, which is defined as a systematic repetition of the conformity assessment activities, which is the basis for maintaining the validity of the conditions established by the attestation. The primary objective of the conformity assessment is to ensure trust in the user, that the requirements are applied to the product, service, system or process fulfilled, for which the country has a special responsibility besides the manufacturer. One of the reasons why products and services in international trade are subject to repeated conformity assessment checks is the lack of trust from users in the assessment of compliance, which is carried out by the body to assess compliance from another country. As a result, measures are needed to increase customer confidence, both in the private and public sectors, as well as by legislators in the work of bodies to assess compliance and accreditation bodies, especially those in other countries. Such trust can be achieved through co-operation between countries, i.e. between bodies to assess compliance and between accreditation bodies. This cooperation shall be formalised through a mutual recognition agreement, whereby the signatories of the agreement agree to recognise the results of each examination, control, certification or accreditation of another country. The main reasons for the adoption of a new law on technical requirements for products and the assessment of compliance are the harmonisation of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and the necessary improvement of technical legislation, compliance with the rules of the Agreement on Technical Barriers in Trade of the World Trade Organisation, as well as compliance with EU technical legislation. The technical regulations will, under the new law, prescribe conditions that must be met by bodies for the assessment of compliance, in respect of – professional skills, necessary equipment, independence and impartiality in the process of assessing compliance, keeping business secrets and responsibilities for work, as well as supervision of their work. The technical requirements law on products and conformity assessment will allow for strengthening the competitiveness of the Serbian economy in a way that will be placed on the market, or only deliver safe products, which meet the technical requirements. criteria for the protection of safety, life and health of people, animals, plants, environments and other public interests. The law recognises the practice of EU countries, that the certificate of accreditation for a particular area is the best means for which bodies to assess compliance demonstrate the competence and satisfaction of minimum requirements. The conformity assessment provides benefits for manufacturers, consumers, legislative authorities and international trade in general. Manufacturers whose products have been assessed and certified to comply with the relevant technical regulations, shall be able to obtain a reputation for a reliable supplier on the market and to achieve a competitive advantage. This proves that the manufacturer has met key requirements relating to health, safety, environmental protection. If the products are not subject to assessment in relation to the requirements of technical regulations, this may be an obstacle to the placement of the product and such a supplier may also be disqualified for government procurement. Consumers benefit from a conformity assessment because it provides them with the basis for the choice of products or services. They have more confidence in products that bear a sign or certificate of conformity i.e. that they are attested to in terms of safety or other desired characteristics. legislators benefit from an assessment of compliance, as this helps to implement technical regulations that protect public interests in relation to health, safety and environmental protection. Harmonised conformity assessment procedures around the world have far-reaching benefits for international trade in general. Agreements between countries or regions on international acceptance of requirements, assessment, control or test results may help to reduce or remove technical barriers to trade. On the other hand, procedures or requirements relating to imports and market access may vary from country to country and be an obstacle to imports of foreign products. The international standardisation organisation ISO, its Consensus Assessment Committee, the International Electrical Commission and the World Trade Organisation are working intensively to achieve the greatest positive effects of harmonising the conformity assessment process. Also, all EU member states through the harmonisation of technical legislation, which includes conformity assessment procedures, provide free flow of goods on this market, as an essential condition of competitiveness. The reasons and necessity of the adoption of these laws are clear. However, both of these laws, apart from the above, have a strong symbolism seen in Serbia's citizens' great desire to be an equal part of the modern world, ready and able to set and comply with standards with others. In the voting day, the G17 Group of MPs plus will certainly support these laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17445	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic, followed by MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17446	Thank you, Madam Vice President. How many minutes does my parliamentary group have in total? (President: 10 minutes. Thank you. Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr Petrovic, we have an interesting set of laws and yesterday we had a very interesting discussion. Several very important questions have been raised, and I would refer to some of what was said yesterday, and what we had the opportunity to see both in law and in reasoning. The first question is: tourism development strategies. It was said that it was a good strategy that was brought a few years ago, that it was seen that there were things that couldn't be realized the way it was written in the strategy, and that's totally fine. It's totally fine, which should change things, because strategies are exactly there to give us some guidance, but when we see that something's wrong, of course we have to react. There's no guarantee the plan will be implemented, but if the plan doesn't exist, then he certainly won't be realised. The strategy needs to give us answers, it needs to give us some guidance, and it needs to give us an example. legislative proposals that must follow to solve problems in the area. What is a question for the Serbian Parliament is not whether we have a strategy, but – whether the strategy provides answers to these questions. For example – does the education system, as it is in Serbia, help develop tourism? The second question is, is tourism even a priority in this country? Where did we find that, in what way? For example, Mr. Petrovic is familiar, because before this function he did some other things, often the problem was the EPS. The tourism ministry says – it is our priority to do a certain thing, and the EPS says yes, but it is not our priority and we are not interested in these things. And of course there's a problem then, because you can't do the realisation of group projects unless you have the consent of all the entities and institutions in the country. The second question is – does the strategy need to answer that only to large or large and small questions, or to answer that what are large and what are small questions? For example, if you take a car from Belgrade to Budapest or Vienna, toll from Belgrade to Saturday costs five euros in one direction, toll through Hungary costs seven euros in four days, and toll through Austria costs eight euros in 10 days. What does it look like to a foreign guest we're talking about, who should come to Serbia, if you through Serbia on the roads, and 60% of the stakes from Belgrade to Saturday are not highways at all, you charge a toll that is several times higher than in a country that has a far higher standard and you give him nothing for it? What does this have to do with the tourism development strategy? Minister Dinkic told us yesterday a very interesting thing and it should be seriously considered. He told us that guests mostly come to Belgrade and that more tourists have Belgrade, than they have places we thought were perspective, because in fact guests do not come to see our natural beauty, but come for some other reasons to Serbia. It's a matter that needs serious thought and needs to be seen what this has to do with our strategy. Meanwhile, we have been given the authority of Mrs Kalanovic, so there is no reason for her to be angry with the opposition MPs. I'm sorry that, say, Mr. Mrkonjic is not here, because what does the infrastructure have to do with tourism development? For example, how long does it take you to travel to Belgrade from Vienna, Paris, London, and how long will it take from Belgrade to travel to Nova Varosha, as one of our colleagues spoke and spoke about all the beauty of the region, how long do you need to get from Belgrade to Kopalnik by car, since you have no other means of transport, or how long does it take from Belgrade to Zlatibor? I highly doubt that any tourist from Western Europe will accept reaching Belgrade in two hours, and then from Belgrade to Zlatibor needs four, from Beograd to Kopalnik five or six. Of course, serious resources are needed to realise the infrastructure. What's the "Corridor 10" phase? What's going on with the Gazela Bridge? What's going on with the bridge at Beska? These are all the routes that tourists need to come to. If most tourists come to Belgrade, then they see these traffic jams, so they probably don't want to, if they don't have to, go back. The black hole in this case seems to have done its job. I'm sorry, I don't mean black hole, but I was pulled by what Minister Djelic said, I meant the Serbian Parliament – the main problem is usually funds. If I'm not mistaken, the Serbian Parliament ratified a law a year ago that provided funds for the implementation of the Gazela project for the realisation of the Beška project. These projects are nothing, and according to this same law and according to the Budget Law, significant funds are provided for the service of these projects. Why don't these projects work if the Assembly did their job? Obviously, the Assembly is not the biggest problem this country has and obviously there are other problems. How are we going to solve this problem, is it a matter that needs to be addressed by the strategy? A very important question opened here yesterday – how much does the state need to interfere with certain branches? Whether we want it or not, the state interferes in everything, through legislation, through institutions, through the control of the respect of the law. What's the question for us is, does the state have credibility and do people believe the state, or what counterpart Ostojić asked yesterday and the polemic he led is precisely on the subject? Do we fear the state because we do not believe that the state will solve problems or we are not sure that the way the state solves problems is good ways. Is this story about directors and salaries of civil servants, for which even the government can't figure out what they are, does it help strengthen the credibility of the state? I don't think so. If the government says it is unable to determine the salaries of the officers it approves of the financial plans, that it is unable to reach the salary, to determine whether or not they pay the bonuses, the officers it is setting up and which it controls, that is what Mr Ostojić said, how can we be sure that certain instruments will function? The basic question is fear and all citizens and all investors are not afraid of so badly legal regulation. They're much more afraid of the laws in this country often changing and you're never sure what kind of environment you'll be doing in a month or two or a year. As the most legislative body, we still don't know when the next session will be. Newspaper says it'll be next week. What the laws will be, what life will look like in this country after that session, not even some foreign investors know of it. The second question is – does the Government respect the laws? If the government doesn't respect the laws, then it's a very serious problem. Yesterday I was talking about a negotiated or agreed arrangement with the IMF. There are two laws in Serbia that allow borrowing. One is the Public Debt Act, and the other is the National Bank Act. When you look at those two laws, the National Bank Act absolutely does not allow you to be in charge of those matters that the state negotiates with the IMF. And the Public Debt Act is very clear in its Articles 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. There's nothing in there that the state is in charge of and what it's negotiating with the IMF. Does this mean that the government doesn't respect the law, and it expects us to convince all the people on the side to come, to invest here and that this is a good thing? Does this have anything to do with tourism? Of course there is. Tourism cannot be an isolated thing, an isolated branch, of everything else. The state must function as a whole and only so will it be able to move forward. As far as we're concerned, we've proposed a lot of important amendments. I expect a debate in particular, and after that, we will state our position under this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17447	The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic, and then by MP Zivojin Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17448	Dear gentlemen of the Ministry, dear colleagues, we have two very important areas of our economy, foreign trade and tourism in front of us. They are modern, modern, and certainly come from the experiences of EU countries, i.e. the environment towards which Serbia needs to and must strive. In that sense, the laws have already been said quite a bit. It should be expected that with useful proposals these laws, system laws, I repeat, additionally entrenched, will improve the quality and independent from which amendments come, of which political groups. In my presentation I will speak of two practical phenomena that are touching – foreign trade and tourism. First of all, exports, or exporters. The weakest link of our economy, everyone knows it and everyone repeats it, is the external trade deficit and high public spending. As for the external trade deficit, I repeat the known data, the euro rate in September 2004 was around 76.5 dinars, in the ninth month of 2008, also about 76.5 dinars. So, 48 months or four years of the euro course was nominally the same level. As regards domestic prices, the official inflation rate in the same period was 45% in September 2008/September 2004. Imagine exporters, net exporters, those who have larger exports than imports, they had to pay domestic inputs at prices that were almost 50% higher, while foreign entry revenues received at the same nominal price. And it can be said freely during that period, that the biggest winners of our macroeconomic policy were those who imported and sold on the domestic market. And the biggest losers were the ones who bought on the domestic market and exported. That it is, testifying to an external trade deficit like, I repeat, the weakest link of our economy. The external trade deficit as surplus imports over exports of goods and services in 2003 amounted to 3.62 billion euros and 8.10 billion euros in 2008. Of course, this is largely the result of the depreciation of course and the fact that due to the high public consumption that has been particularly increased since 2003, 2004, 2006, that the only defence of macroeconomic stability and price stability has been the appreciation of dinars, too much dinar. In that sense, it would be necessary, and I am sorry that our resolute minister is not there, as a representative of the exporter, the net exporter. It would be necessary for the record to change. I think it's starting to change. Two days ago, the economy minister had a meeting, one in a series of meetings, with exporters. During last year and this year several meetings were held with exporters, after a long period of time, they were really treated in a way that must be, which is that they are the greatest chance, practically an imperative of the Serbian economy. If we do not reduce the external trade deficit and the resulting current payment deficit, indeed, the Serbian economy, regardless of the global economic crisis, is not well written. In that sense, what exporters are now looking for, in addition to good laws, such as the one on foreign trade, they are looking for lower interest, 5.5% interest. Preferential interest of 5.5% large exporters already have, have lower. They now have 4% - 5% and 5.5% of preferential interest from the government package are high for net exporters. Exporters need the interest provided by the 3% Development Fund or to increase business banks from 3% to 4%. It's a chance for the exporters, for those in the game to get better at that rigorous game. I'd say, the current course, if we round it to 95 dinars, is 16.7% higher than the average in 2008, which was 81.47. Already, gentlemen, it's easier to breathe. It's easier to breathe in export. Another piece of information I would say, in 2004, the exporters, a large number, had a salary compared to the average Serbia 10% to 15% higher, and in 2008 25% - 35% lower. This is proof that the arrest of the dinars that took place directly to the damages of exports. Another short question from the tourism sphere, and using the presence of respected professor Goran Petkovic, a tourist agency, according to current regulations, cannot receive foreign exchanges and this happens: a citizen, a client, as the ad says 500 euros, he brings 500 euros, and the agency tells him – you have to change 500 euros into dinars, we cannot receive foreign exchanges. He changes them according to the purchase rate - loses them in the difference in course. Then the agency of those same dinars she received must re-turn into foreign exchanges to put into a foreign exchange account that she already has and pay the inoperator. Who's losing? He's losing a client. He loses his client twice in different courses. It would be necessary to change the rules and that travel and tourist agencies can directly receive and charge their services in foreign exchanges. That's all I wanted. Thank you. I hope that even under the conditions of the global economic crisis, difficult conditions, this will be a turning point in the treatment of exporters and milestones that will begin to reduce the external trade deficit, which, I repeat, is at an unbearable high level. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17449	The People's Messenger Zivojin Stankovic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people is Munir Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17450	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about this law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment and this standardisation law. The technical requirements law regulates the way in which technical requirements are prescribed for products and the adoption of technical regulations, the assessment of the conformity of the product with the prescribed technical requirements, the obligations of the supplier of the product and the owner of the product in use. It shall apply to all products other than those which have technical requirements prescribed by certain other laws. The existing legal framework in which the region in the Republic of Serbia has worked has several laws that have come from the state community. The aim of this law is to create a general legal basis for the adoption of technical regulations in areas not yet governed by specific laws. The new law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment should allow the inherited technical regulations to be brought into line in a fast and efficient manner with international rules and practices, without disrupting security and without creating gaps in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. A new technical regulation is necessary to ensure a high level of protection of life, health and safety, both human and animal and plant life, environmental protection, consumer protection and other users, protection of property and protection of other public interests, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to provide a legal framework for the regulation of technical requirements which will not create unnecessary barriers to trade. This can be achieved by regulating the market by prescribing technical requirements for products, thus ensuring that products that are in conformity with the prescribed technical requirements are delivered exclusively to the Republic of Serbia market. The objectives set for the safety of products on the market and use can only be achieved by the adoption of technical regulations in a manner and in accordance with this law. The newer law will contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the Serbian economy and will ensure that all technical requirements for products are met and thus will have an easier placement on both domestic and foreign markets. The adoption of the law comes into line with the rules of the Agreement on Technical Barriers in Trade of the World Trade Organisation and compliance with the rules applicable in EU countries. The law provides for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development to carry out tasks relating to the standardisation of technical regulations, accreditation, measures and valuable materials, and for the ministries, each in the description of their work, to prepare a proposal for technical regulations. That's why decentralisation was introduced in this business, which is good news. Coordination between all these ministries is necessary and will therefore be managed by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The law, in line with practice in the EU, provides demonopolisation in the area of infrastructure, through the appointment, or advertising of bodies to assess compliance. The Standardisation Act regulates the principles and objectives of standardisation in the Republic of Serbia. This law applies to standards and related documents adopted and published by the national standardisation body in the Republic of Serbia, as well as to international standards and related documents of recognised international and European standardisation organisations. In the Republic of Serbia, the regulations inherited from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro apply. At the end of the validity of the Serbia-Montenegro community, the Standardisation Act is applied as a Republic law, with the government of Serbia introducing the Institute for Standardisation of Serbia, which is governed by the rules governing other countries' institutions in Europe, which are EU members. This also transformed the institutions of all EU member states. The possibility must be created for the Institute to acquire full membership status in European standardisation organisations in the coming period, which is one of the basic preconditions for Serbia's EU accession. Given the need to meet Serbia's requirements for membership in the World Trade Organisation and the EU, it has proved necessary for the Republic of Serbia to adopt its standardisation law in order to bring the regulations in the Republic of Serbia into line and to improve the role of standardisation in the modernisation of technical legislation of the Republic of Serbia in order to bring the rules of the Agreement on technical barriers to trade and harmonisation of standardisation with EU countries. The law, compared to the previous one, specifically regulates the attitude towards border standardisation, legal position and organisation of the Institute of Standardisation, primarily the use of international standards as a basis for the creation of Serbian standards, the process of adopting Serbian standards and the declaration that they have been passed. It is very important to highlight voluntary application of standards. Given that the Republic of Serbia has ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as well as that it actively conducts accession negotiations in the World Trade Organisation, it is necessary to meet the obligations resulting from this, particularly in a voluntary application of standards. There is much work to be done in all ministries that are responsible for the adoption of technical regulations, as more than 300 standards should be provided and transposed into these technical regulations. The law constitutes a material – legal basis for the taking over of international and European standards as preconditions for transposition of the EU directive into Serbian technical legislation, as well as the basis for a solution to the problem of mandatory application standards, which is particularly insisted by the World Trade Organisation. This law also provides support for the implementation of the technical requirements law for products and conformity assessment. The DS MPs will, of course, support these bill proposals, as well as MEPs for European Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17451	The People's Messenger, Munir Poturak, has the word. He's also the last on the speaker list.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17452	Dear Chairman, dear Mrs Kalanovic, honourable fellow Members, I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity to highlight the values and potentials that exist in the area where I come from, to ask Mrs Kalanovic and the ministries involved under this tourism law, because tourism, if not all ministries are involved with all its measures, is difficult to achieve such potential as is expected in Serbia. To remind me that in the 1990s, Serbia was declared one of the most wanted tourist sites, potential. If it hadn't been for those ugly years, the unrest, the wars in the environment and all that, I think Serbia was on an exceptional path to, above all, be a country of tourist regions. For this reason, I just wanted to show how much UNESCO and other institutions were counting on it, so a map of Yugoslavia was made, at the time, later Serbia, divided into tourist cantons. The work was made by professor Mr. Jovan Bukovic. It is stressed in this section that there are over 300 places of historical and cultural content in the Sandzak area as a tourist region, which are listed and among them is a large number under the protection of UNESCO and other historical institutions. Have you ever heard of the White Angel? Do you know where he is? Did any of you have a chance to see where he was? Just to remind you that for such a fresco Mr. historian Arthur Emans in 1883, on September 1st, he wrote in the list "Manchester Guardian" – nothing that Đotto created cannot be compared to the beauty of angels and Serbian royal responsibilities of the monastery of Mileshevo. I wanted to ask you, if anyone was or if he intends to know which way he's going to go, if he knows what road he's going to take, whether it takes six, seven hours to travel to Prepolje. Do they know it takes five or six hours to travel to Novi Pazar or other cities in the area, along the border towards Montenegro and Bosnia. – What is necessary for us and what is necessary for other parts of Serbia that are less developed are traffic. And we can't just look at this tourism law the way it is and thank God it's the turn. The Sandzak Democratic Party will support this law and everyone else in this package, because they are speeding us towards the EU, according to funds that can provide us with what we literally need, and in order for plants to realise what is planned. If there are no good ways we can live there, we can boast with all these qualities that we possess, but if people don't see it, if it doesn't become visible, if people don't know what there is and how many of those values exist, what tradition, what culture, we haven't done anything. One of our local writers wrote that Sandzak has a soul for "snoring"; a good country, a healthy country, healthy food, healthy people, that's what can be given not only to our citizens, that's what we have to offer the world around us, that's what we can do to people who have money to offer to come, to give their free time and their money for their own good, to spend their vacation. People need to know, the ones we expect to come to our country and spend money to make money hard. He thus earns even more value and value it more, and for this reason they well plan where they will use their free time, carefully select destinations and plan the time when they will use their vacation. That is why we need to arrange our place properly, so that people who have money to spend it, and make us even closer to destinations, so Mrs Kalanovic and Mr Dinkic please just take a little interest in the airport in Sjenica and the airport in Ponikva. There are economic studies on the justification of these airports that were once under military jurisdiction. Now they're interested in being so-called. mini tourist airports that can approach this part and without these highways to all interested centres for this so-called. weekend - tourism. Serbia is a country where minorities are brand, and if people in this area in Sandzak, Vojvodina, can live with all their cultural and historical heritage and that this tradition with modern elements can be a chance for a common life and better development, please help us get out of this situation where underdeveloped cities are, above all, in all Serbia, and these in Sandzak are in undeveloped marginal areas with heritage from previous authorities. Just to say that for Novi Pazar, 11m euros is a huge burden, it takes us a long time to get out of such a situation. The current government has accepted, we ask the state for help, that what we inherited is somehow paid off and that we pay off. Every month, at least ten days, in Novi Pazar, we are blocked because there are court rulings on the basis of backlogs from ten years ago and then the accounts are blocked. Because Sjenica has 431 million dinars of budget, and you know that last year only 52% of that budget is charged. You know that Sjenica, with a minus 29 on average, is the coldest city in Serbia, that nine months people have to lie down to function and live normally. You know that in Priboj literally no privatisation is done properly and to wait for a FAP strategic partner, so a city that had the largest number of engineers and was the most written city in the former Yugoslavia today literally does nothing. Please look a little further than Belgrade. I know, Mrs. Kalanovic, that you know the whole situation, it is necessary that all of your colleagues, the government, people who are in certain agencies, recognize projects from these parts and help us, to provide us with professional help in this area and to encourage people from these areas to come out of this situation together and in some way feel, no matter how far we are, five or six hours of travel through bad roads, that we are a little closer to the heart, not to be, as they say, far from the eyes, away from the heart. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17453	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Marina Ragus, authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17454	Ladies and gentlemen, what the SRS is most often interested in, and cannot get an answer, is whether this bill, which today is on the agenda of the debate in principle, will be applied in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. That's the first question. I hope we get a final answer. The second question is, what material-technical assumptions, financial and human, are provided for the implementation of these laws. What the SRS is about is that we fear the current economic situation in the state of Serbia, which is the result of an unplanned and non-reformal course over the past nine years. It seems to me that we have said enough and proved enough using these official sources of the Serbian state. Among other things, the latest data suggests, on 15 April 2009, on the basis of a warning from the NBS Governor, Mr Jelasic, that from day to day, the number of companies with blocked accounts is increasing, that they currently have around 60,000. The amount that Serbian companies owe has reached 234 billion dinars, which is why their accounts have been blocked, according to Mr Jelasic, which is an increase of 13.6% compared to the end of 2008. And what Mr Jelasic announced was a better liquidity that Serbia expects after 11 May, when the IMF's board of directors should decide on granting a 13 billion-euro loan to Serbia. This is an important piece of information to simply see how it can work and how the Serbian economy works. Also, what has come to us as information is that on 15 April 2009, it is an official source, all ministries are ordered to deliver to the Serbian government's general secretariat as soon as possible how many excess employees they have. Based on this data, the government will draw up a detailed plan to cut the entire state apparatus by 8,000 people over the next nine months. The ministry plans to keep about 4,000 people out of work and so much will be fired in local self-government. That number includes all those who will meet pension conditions in the meantime, with 1,000 out of 8,000. Also, another piece of information we learn from the media, as representatives of the people, so MPs of Serbia's highest home, is that the government of the Serbian state has drawn up a budget rebalancing plan that envisions an increase in the deficit of 49.9 to 70 billion dinars. The budget deficit will be covered by the remaining revenues, as we learn from the media – from privatisation, from a World Bank loan of about 300 million dollars, from around $100m from IPA funds, by issuing government bonds and smaller commercial loans. The amount in billions of government dinars this year, instead of nearly 699 billion dinars, will amount to around 650. It will be able to spend 720 instead of nearly 749, and that is the information that we, unfortunately, receive from the writing of the media, which here has proved to be better informed than the MPs of this Parliament. Why am I saying all this? Simply because we don't understand how the reforms within these areas are really going to be sustainable and implemented? Who will bear the costs of reorganisation, say, in the area of tourism? What has, in the last place, startled us, and I really have to praise this proposal of the tourism law only in one part, because, on the basis of this information in terms of the reasoning and analysis of the effects of this law, there is still a more complete picture, i.e. a more qualified debate. But what we don't understand, I believe, is that you're going to explain to us either now or in the discussion of details, that's this contribution to the bill, where it's said among other things, and that the public needs to know what the reform of the entire area of tourism should look like. In doing so, the SRS has always been for the introduction of order in every area of life and for certain supervision, especially in a society that has become encumbered in corruption, and it seems that in the coming period it will not be able to cope with what may be my subjective impression, but in the end and the facts show this is an extraordinary, unfortunately brutal information about the degree of corruption in Serbia. The text of the bill states that: – the minister is closer to prescribing the content and way of drawing up planning documents and studying justification for the announcement, for example, tourist space. – The Government shall adopt a Strategy on a proposal from the Ministry, which refers directly to Article 7(1). (Now I don't know how interesting it will be for the Serbian public, so I will avoid members, trying to make it clearer. In fact, what will it look like, why concentrate so much power, against it we are, in the hands of one man anyway? What the Serbian society paints creates for us is that there can be abuse and then we ask ourselves: What about decentralisation? What, for example, would happen to Esnaf associations and qualified experts to influence, determine and prescribe everything they needed and what was given to one man to do? To be more precise: – The Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, brings a programme for the development of a tourist product; – The Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, declares a tourist space; – the Minister makes the conditions for determining the category of tourist resort, the way in which the category is determined and changed, as well as the type of data on tourist sites that are registered in the Register of Tourism; – The Government is closer to enforcing the conditions and way of granting and using the means to encourage the development of tourism. This last one is very far away from us because our experiences as political parties tell us that there really are conditions that can be called discriminatory, in terms of the allocation of funds to certain places or certain local self-governments. – The Minister prescribes the content and manner of highlighting tourist signalling; – the Minister prescribes the form, content and manner of keeping records of contracts and records of sold tourist trips; – the Minister prescribes closer conditions regarding the space and equipment that must be met by the travel agency that directly provides services to the passenger; – the Minister prescribes closer conditions and means of issuing the formal form of the licence; – the Minister, with the consent of the Minister responsible for Internal Affairs, prescribes the form, content and manner of keeping the guest records in the catering facility; – the Minister, with the agreement of the Minister of Health, prescribes a way to provide technical, sanitary and health services in a moving facility, as well as the minimum technical, sanitary and health conditions that all facilities must meet all the facilities; – the Minister with the consent of the Minister responsible for health services, health and health care and health care facilities for the management and equipment of the catering facilities, in the manner of the minister's security of the minister's security and the security of the security of the security of the security of the services; Indeed great power is concentrated in the hands of a man. To be clear, I only have a minute left, the SRS is for the introduction of order, especially in an area that is so neglected. We are merely expressing our concern, or the fear that one man will not be able to do so, and that a certain degree of abuse does not exist at least in theory and practice has shown that it exists. On the other hand, it is not clear how you think that all those who are touched by the effects of this law will be able to follow the standards set before them, from tourist agencies to catering facilities, so we hope that we will have a chance to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17455	Anyone else want a word that hasn't used the right of Article 93? No, I don't. ) If not, we conclude a principle and joint search on the draft law. The word was requested by MP Velimir Ilic, and time is available for eight minutes and ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17456	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, it is my pleasure to hear about this issue and that the ruling coalition is potential for some of the problems that the current government does not see, but it cannot come to the agenda, to resolve it. I would ask the question -- who stopped the concession that was intended to open Serbia, to open the Divcibars, to open Zlatibor, Tara, to open the beauty of Serbia, what was this MP saying: Prepolje, Milesevo and all that is most valuable in Serbia?- I'm sorry. We simply did not allow all these projects that are key to Serbia to be done – this government stopped them! We built access roads to the Divchibars. We started the road to the Old Mountain – but it's free to do objects if we don't have travel infrastructure. We started to open Goli, we came to Raska with a good and quality way. I don't give a shit when I listen to the president of Serbia who's talking about not doing a kilometer of corridors, and forgets that Bor's head was done, that it's a completely reconstructed road to the border of Macedonia, to Montenegro, to the Croatian border, to the Romanian border, etc. We first had an agreement with the EU to do and rehabilitate existing highways, and then to start building new roads. Why are you so attached to that part towards Macedonia? There is a traffic of 2,000 cars a day, at Ibarska masteral near Lazarets – 27,000 cars a day, according to the measurements that our Institute was doing. A project has been stopped for the Shipman Airport. It took a little while, we were perfecting that control tower so it could be for both the civilian and the military. The Poniks and the Užica bypasses have been stopped, an extremely important project to open the entire Western Serbia region as a tourist destination. Not to mention how much was invested in Divcibare in the infrastructure, the road to Bogdanovic's hill, both on the Myonic side and on the Valjev side, completely finished. It was just a deal to combine it with an existing highway that was supposed to be done at the beginning of the year and that part of Obrenovac-Ub. Therefore, gentlemen, you want to bring tourists, and you force it, where Serbia has no traffic. Well, the Greeks don't have a highway to Thessaloniki, and we want to make and bring traffic from Europe, and we don't think about us, our tourism, our development, the air traffic that we need to develop for our citizens, to open it up, of course. Why did the Bather freeze, the project we started, which has multiplely raised the number of tourists? Not to speak any further, but many projects that are very important to Serbia have been stopped. We were doing the project, Wire. Why is it hitchhiked and not brought all the way to the end? See, now there's no means of expropriation. How to get into credit lines, how to get into new talks, if Serbia is obliged, so that it can create a project and compete to make an expropriation? Therefore, whoever has no means of expropriation does not have any further discussions on any further work and any co-operation with banks, of course also with financial institutions that need to support the project. You just fight and raise some media campaign and tell an empty story. You've killed us more than a few dozen fulls. Here we go. Five wholes are being sold today. That's breaking news all over the country. Is that so important to Serbia? Who authorized you, who gave you the right to finance and subsidise on a car that is 100% importable in Serbia? What does Serbia get out of it? Six hundred and a few euros per "full", and it stimulates, making subsidies with 1,000 euros. Who gives you the right to do that? Take five hundred workers and calculate what their salaries are, monthly, annually, and how much subsidies you give only on production. That's not even a third that comes back through the personal incomes of workers. We want the automotive industry, a serious production where Serbian economy and Serbian co-operatives will participate. You're talking about tourism here, so tourism is important for agriculture to spend what our farmer produces. But how do you start in agriculture, how do you connect it all to subsidies you don't do? Since she's a bag of artificial fertilizer? How many of last year's crops have she collected? What will the peasant sow with? You picked up oil and gasoline this morning. How long do you think? What do you think? Well, Grandma Simana can run state finances when she sees what a budget deficit is and she just cuts it off - this on fees, this on this, this on that... Do you realize that if giants don't work, if the economy doesn't work, that we can't survive and fill the budget? What does the economy minister think, who put everything in his sector, and tourism and privatisation, not to talk about what privatisation is, etc., so you know that Sartid is stopping now, he stopped "Bor", he stopped "Maydanpek"! What about "Electron Industries," is it?- I'm sorry. So what's the deal with the Fiat?- I'm sorry. It's not gonna happen either, gentlemen. What about "The King," the Leskovac, the Viscose, the Cancer, the IMT, the Dragon, the Lola Fisher"?- I'm sorry. You're saying there's going to be car recycling, that there's going to be a few dozen people working, and there's been 7,000 workers working there. It was the largest Serbian outflow. What about the Five-O's? Do you realize that you can't charge the budget anymore in this way, so what are we going to increase taxes and excise taxes and various fines to survive? We're talking - we're saving coffee. You know, we've arrested, as our people say, if we've agreed to the story that we'll have less coffee, that we won't have tea to drink MPs or members of the government, etc. The president's talking the other day that Parliament is too big, that it should be cut in half. Please, everyone criticises Parliament. So do you realize that this is the institution that should be the strongest and most powerful in Serbia, that everyone respects and respects it, that this is where it all comes from. You are completely out of line with the economy and with the most important issues about Kosovo, Eulex. You are in a position to decide for yourselves, and nothing comes which is significant in this House. You all find it appropriate to criticise Parliament and MPs! Where did you get the courage? Let's put an end to Parliament! Why don't you stop it, why don't you suggest it?- I'm sorry. Do you know that the Government currently has many more members, ministers, advisers, state secretary and assistants, than in all that Parliament has Members of Parliament and staff who serve it! Look at the statistics, see where the savings are. Why did you stop with the savings when they came to the ministry? I'd like to ask Mrs. Kalanovic, does anyone in the world have a Ministry of National Investment Plan? Is that what there is in one country of the world? For what it's worth, to make a bunch of money available to the government, to visit Parliament, and to make those money available to the ministries, as will be the ruling coalition!- I'm sorry. Why don't you deliver your traffic in the budget, enlighten your, your environmentals, etc.? There is no Ministry of National Investment Programme anywhere in the world! What are his incomes, what profits, etc? (President: People's Parliament, the time that is at your disposal has been used. I won't bother you any further with this, but the topics are very interesting and I ask you to return these serious topics, especially economically, to Parliament, where they belong. Return all investments to go through Parliament, to discuss here, and to discuss these investments here. Let's not let any more of us make puppets here, which should come to decide where anyone will sit, what the gym will look like, that it's representative, etc., and that big questions are brought by a handful of people who we see have failed for years! They won't!- I'm sorry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17457	Thank you. Is there anyone else who hasn't taken advantage of his right to speak? The word is wanted by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17458	I wouldn't answer for a word about the laws that are on the agenda, but I simply feel obliged to try to do something about the tourism law from another point of view. I am not surprised that the questions are raised by those who were in power until 2000 and have been criticising something that has been happening since 2000, but I am puzzled that someone who has been taking care of infrastructure for four years today is asking the question of unbuilding infrastructure. There is a national investment plan in other countries, but even if it does not exist, it should be introduced as a control of the projects being done, not only in the Ministry of Infrastructure, but also in other ministries, to determine which roads remain incomplete and why the roads in Serbia cost the most of all countries in Europe. Why do we have roads to the Old Mountain, which, on the one hand, are financed through the Ministry of Tourism, which represent a new path that we can all see today if we sit in a car and go on the south pyrotic side and get to Babi's Tooth that's been breached, but we can see that the path, which is funded from another source, is not. Also, we can do a calculation of why many of the roads that we know were not finished were meant to represent improving travel infrastructure and improving tourism, why we made them from nowhere to nowhere, and for what all the spending was on the National Investment Plan, which was in the division of certain ministries. It is clear that planning is one of the basic elements and it is clear that national strategies, national plans, action plans, should be compatible with each other and I fully agree that tourism represents one complex branch that will be affected and affect the development of many others. But at this point, we can't ask for the development of tourism to be raised to a high level without having had infrastructure development in the previous period! We cannot ask that tourism represents a uniformly distributed development in the territory of all Serbia with developed tourist centres, if we know what our investment was like in different parts of Serbia! We can't ask why we don't have a successful hotel privatisation at the moment, and we know what our country was in! We can't ask why we don't have a pure Silver Lake, when we know that 30 years ago the sewerage went to that very lake! The development of infrastructure and investment in infrastructure, travel, municipal, gas, energy and each other is a prerequisite for tourism development. And the National Investment Plan will, through its programme, encourage infrastructure projects that contribute to the development of tourism, but, please, don't let those who made decisions on the development of one infrastructure today question why there are others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17459	Is anyone else answering for a word that hasn't used its right to Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on: a proposal for a law on foreign trade, a draft legislation on standardisation, a proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and an assessment of compliance and a proposal for a law on tourism. We move to a joint principle search of the 26th and 27th points of the agenda: – Proposals for a law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment and professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities Consently decided by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on the drafts of the law laid down in the established agenda under points 26 and 27, and before opening a joint principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group of SRS – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliamentary group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for a word with the order of MPs, so that a full list could be drawn up, and according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Nikola Krpić – MP Elvira Kovac – Parliamentary Group of Minorities; MP Zlata Đeric – Parliament Group of New Serbia; MP Milisav Petronijevic – MP group SPS-JS; MP Jovan Palalic – Parliament group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP Snežana Sedlar-Kenig – Parliament group of G17 plus; MP Marina Ragus – Parliament group of SRS, MP Meso Omerović – MP for European Serbia and National MP Vesna Pesic – Parliament group of LDPs. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment and the draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Does the proposing representative, National Investment Plan Minister Verica Kalanovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, today there are 758,387 unemployed in Serbia, of which: in Belgrade 98,410, in Vojvodina 199,902, in central Serbia 460,075. What are the statistics on the number of employees and unemployed in Serbia over the past three years? The number of employees in 2006 was 2,029.000, in 2007, 2,002, in 2008, 1,993,000, and it is clear that the number of employees is falling. Number of unemployed registered with the National Employment Service in 2006 913,293, in 2007 850,000, in 2008 727,621. And, as we can see, the number of unemployed declines. We're going to ask if there's any illogicality here? Trends of declines in both categories are that both groups are falling, but if further detailed analysis is made, it is seen that the number of inactive, or those not interested in work and not on the record is growing, and are found in the working-age population group. If you look at the unemployment rate moving in the labour force poll, which is the only comparable data with other countries, essentially unemployed, measured by the unemployment rate of the labour force poll, in 2006 was 21.6%, in 2007 18.8%, in 2008. There may be a question of what the labour poll means. I would simply like to say that this is the survey that all European countries and all countries in the environment are using, which represents information about those who are essentially unemployed, who do not have sources of income from their work and who are now ready to enter the new job. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the start of every speech almost every single one of the public affairs people starts today – that Serbia has a large number of unemployed people. That's right. Serbia is one of the countries where the unemployment rate in a group of countries in Europe belongs to the most unemployed, so the unemployment rate is the highest. Is Serbia in a group of the most vulnerable countries? No, but the objective unemployment rate is very high. Also, Serbia belongs to Europe's leading countries, which is caused by the number of stress caused by job losses or the inability to work among leaders, i.e. at the very top. Unfortunately, these are the facts we cannot escape from them. But those are the challenges ahead of us. What do we do at this point? We have to fight, we have to change things, and there are two laws in front of us today. One is a brand-new, fundamentally, law that governs one area that has been quite unsettled, but we also have before us a new law on employment and insurance in case of unemployment. These two laws are extremely important, because they concern the lives of each individual, almost every family, because according to the survey, the issue of employment, that is, is the second most important post-health job for each person individually. What are the changes, or should I say, first of all, that this law is in the process of making a great deal of interest, that it has been made with a large number of partners through a broad public debate and that it is broadly agreed on all relevant issues. What's the point? It is proactive, it is reformic, it is European, it is consistent with the good practice of countries in the environment and EU countries. The question arises – what was it in the old law that was to be changed? First of all, the old law didn't recognize the concept of planning. We're not saying there wasn't any planning, it was, but it wasn't a legal obligation. These plans were not adopted as strategic documents at the government. They were conducted within the framework of one ministry and were not released for discussion, which went through all ministries and was aligned with those who could significantly influence labour and employment. Also, the implementation of the employment policy was not adequately resolved, especially in relation to active and passive policy measures, given that active measures were quite firmly nailed, they were not flexible and the relationship between active and passive measures was extremely passive. The existing law could not have been significantly changed and that essentially new changes were necessary and necessary to pass a new law. What is it that offers a new law? First, planning. Planning is the basis for resolving any system issue, including this one, and the basis for defining a flexible employment policy. Employment is not an isolated question. This is a question related to economic development policy, attracting foreign direct investment, developing small and medium-sized enterprises, for the process of European integration, for infrastructure development policy. The bill sets out the national action plan, which brings the government on an annual basis, as a basic strategic document for the management of the employment policy, on the proposal of a resolute employment ministry. The action plan contains annual objectives and priorities, programmes and measures, as well as budgets and sources of funding for employment policy. Furthermore, a series of active employment policies emerges from the national action plan. As I said, in the old law these action measures were given without flexibility, not respecting either parameter, time, no territory, no personality. The new law introduces flexible active employment measures. They shall be adopted every year in accordance with the needs and market, with the participation of the social partners and all other interested parties, together with the regional and local authorities. For this current moment, I will mention only one thing: it is, for example, public works, which are appropriate at this point and are in line with the needs of individuals and the territories on which they will be implemented. Third, a system for monitoring the implementation of active employment measures is in place. It is very important that, at the end of the year, the effects of the proposed measures are seen both as a confirmation of policy and as a direction towards future direction towards measures. The paper in the law is the conclusion of an impact agreement between the minister responsible for employment affairs and the director of the National Employment Service, which is projected through expected results and deadlines. At the end of the year, the result shows the quality of the proposed measure and the efficiency of the service. That is why reports are foreseen to the resolution ministry, which are for three months, but, if necessary, at the request of the ministry, and mandatory annual reports to the government. The fourth thing is that the existing law defines passive measures in a way that is not stimulating for employment. The length of time to exercise compensation rights is high, the amount of compensation is just about personal income and there is no incentive to move towards active job search before a certain period expires. Using this method, a balance has been established between passive and active measures first expressed through the budget. At this point, the relationship between active and passive measures seen through the budget looks like this – 3.5 billion dinars are foreseen for active employment measures for 2009, which should include 727.621 unemployed, which was on the record of the National Employment Service in 31.12.2008, when the budget was adopted. Money compensation for the unemployed, with an average of 70,000, is worth 20 billion dinars. This ratio of passive and active measures is not stimulating and does not give enough space to apply active employment measures. The new law changes this relationship in favour of active measures and a significant part of the funds is directed towards active measures and increased direct employment. Also, the existing law has no incentive to hire province and local councils. What does that look like right now? There is a significant initiative from both the province levels and local levels, although these tips are optional, in the new law they will remain academical and defined by Article 28 of the Law, but the new law provides for an incentive to create and implement active employment measures on the territory, by subsidising up to 50% of their programmes, and in the case of undeveloped municipalities and more. Their interest will be far greater. The newspaper in this law is also an individual employment plan. Unfortunately, for a job right now, it has to be fought. It is also necessary for an individual to have an initiative and an individual employment plan to represent a micro-plan of an individual who defines personal activities and activities supported by the National Employment Service to address the personal unemployment problem. It's another one of the instruments of active policy. It is an obligation for both the unemployed and the National Employment Service to conclude an individual employment plan together within 90 days of the date of application. An active employment policy is created by the government and the competent ministry. However, in order for an active employment policy to be implemented, strong institutions must implement it and, therefore, the law provides for strengthening the National Employment Service and the Employment Agency. The law defines changes in the functioning of the National Service in the direction of raising efficiency and capacity in governance, but also further development of the Employment Agency as a partner of the National Employment Service. What are the changes? First, the number of members of the Board of Directors of the National Service is reduced from fifteen to nine, which contributes to efficiency but also to the way in which the elections are held, because one of the members of the Management Board is the Director of the National Employment Service, who implements the decisions. The other eight members are elected so that four are on a proposal from the Social Economic Council, two representatives on a proposal from the union, two on a proposal from the employer, and four on a proposal from the minister, two from the resolution ministry and two from other ministries. The strict criteria for selecting the Director of the National Employment Service is to limit the mandate, professionalise the function of the Director of the National Employment Service, introduce conflict prevention of public and private interest in the performance of the Director and members of the Management Board. Employment agencies have stricter conditions for setting up and doing jobs. A part of the work of the National Employment Service in implementing active policy measures may be delegated through the public procurement procedure to agencies. In the end, what are the expected effects of this law? Increase the number of employees. This law is passed with the aim of increasing the number of employees, by establishing a balance of active and passive employment measures, through an amended incentive system favouring work and employment and active job search. Then, improving the quality of planning and implementing an active employment policy, with clearly divided roles, where the government and the competent ministry run politics, and the National Service is implementing it with its partners. In the end, the effects are measured. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that we have a quality law ahead of us and I expect the proposed measures to give significant effects, and I expect that most MPs will support this law in the voting day and in part show support to all those in Serbia who believe that activity and work are one of the directions for raising Serbia's development and exit from the situation in which Serbia is today. The second law is the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. This is a whole new law, which we can freely say, not only is it reform and pro-European, but the example of this law will be such that it will be respected by legislation and by some European countries and countries in the environment in the regulation of this matter in its area. In one part of the job, the law is based on the previous, because it is also proactive, but this law also deals with professional rehabilitation and career progress and creating conditions for the establishment of institutions that are not present in these areas today, and are related to solving the problem of people with disabilities. In the previous law, we started with statistics. Unfortunately, there is no accurate data on the number of people with disabilities. There are only some estimates made based on data available to the PIO Fund, social work centres, the military, the European Agency for Reconstruction and the World Bank. These estimates show that there are about 700,000 people, of which only 21,000 are working relationships. The number of people with disabilities in the surrounding countries is also moving between 8% and 12%. On the National Employment Service records today there are 22,464 people with disabilities, of which 7% with higher education, and 70% of people with disabilities are poor. The basic objectives of this law are related to the employment of persons with disabilities, which shows a greater number of effects. First, raising the personal standards of persons with disabilities, education of adequate conditions for social integration, achieving equality in opportunities and opportunities, raising the standards and status of a family in which a person with disabilities lives, regulating the field of employment on a state-of-the-art legal basis. The creation of this law was in the previous period with the support of a large number of experts in this area, but all resolution directives, recommendations, conventions and action plans governing this area were also used. What does this law bring? First of all, status determination. People with disabilities have never had that opportunity before. As part of this, there is an assessment of the working ability to answer the question – what can a person do, or to confirm the individual’s ability to perform a particular group of jobs. Another thing is to establish an incentive measure for both a person with disabilities and an employer for his employment, i.e. for their employment. Third, it determines and defines a series of measures and activities of professional rehabilitation. The measures are directed towards the individual personally, according to the family, to the employer and to the wider social community. As in previous law, these measures are flexible. They can improve in the coming period, develop towards the most modern European and world standards. The measures are classified in two groups: – The first group of measures is related to those persons with disabilities who received disability in the status of the employee and whose costs of professional rehabilitation are borne by the employer. – The second group of measures are measures relating to unemployed persons with disabilities and whose measures for active employment and implementation of active employment measures are borne by the National Employment Service. Professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities has been resolved in a completely systematic manner because, on the one hand, the measures and activities, on the other hand, business carriers and are covered absolutely by all persons, regardless of employment status. The existing legislation on employment of persons with disabilities has resolved exclusively through closed workshops or personal engagement of individuals without State intervention. This law foresees and favours employment of persons with disabilities under general conditions, which is extremely important, but defining the obligation of employers to be persons with disabilities compared to the total number of employees. What are all the opportunities that an employer can use by fulfilling his obligation? – First, to hire a certain number of people with disabilities in accordance with their needs and in line with the possibilities of persons. If the work that the employer has in his jurisdiction does not allow, he is given other opportunities, to participate in funding the earnings of persons with disabilities employed in enterprises that are mostly employed by them because they are such that they can work there. – The second situation is to find an opportunity to conclude contracts and regulate obligations under these contracts at a certain amount, by obtaining equipment or services from these undertakings. – Thirdly, if that is not possible, it is to pay the penalty in the defined amount in the specific budget fund and therefore the funds are spent exclusively on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons. This obligation excludes small employers who employ up to 20 people and start-ups within two years of the start-up day. This law provides for a series of measures for active employment of disabled persons. The measures are related to self-employment, but also to maintaining employment and career management and mentoring, as well as to progress in work and further education and training. The measures are also envisaged for employers, as stimulating and stimulating. The law also defines specific forms of employment of persons with disabilities through special enterprises that are obliged to have a minimum of 50%, of the number of employees, persons with disabilities, through working centres that represent institutions that link therapy with employment, through social enterprises and organisations, which is a complete newspaper. These companies are companies established to assist persons with disabilities and professional rehabilitation and employment, but also to provide services to meet other needs of life, such as the establishment of special transport companies, i.e. enterprises designed for traffic and transport of persons with disabilities. The institutional framework for the implementation of this law has been defined through the Centre for the Incentivization of Persons with Disabilities at the National Employment Service, as an obligation of the National Service, a company for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, educational institutions and other entities that meet the requirements under the law. The effects of implementing this law are both financial and social. Financially, persons with disabilities will earn full or partial employment in the world of work, and examples show that jobs can do not the same as others, but in some cases and better, they will earn full or partial employment for their existence and already in the first year of application of this law is expected to employ 7-9 000 persons with disabilities. I leave the social effects of application to analyse those who deal with social policy, respect for human rights and to look at other aspects of people with disabilities. I expect that this law in the voting day will also be confirmed by consensus because it solves one issue that affects many other areas that are not only economical and not just financial. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17461	Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, MP Meho Omerovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? Later. Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the National MP Zlata Djeric, who held an opinion at the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, want to speak when considering the draft law on professional rehabilitation, employment of persons with disabilities? Please press the login key. Does the system register or not register a card?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President-in-Office, Honorable Madam Minister, although I expected the Minister, Mr Ljajic, to be a rapporteur today, but he doesn't change the matter, I will say what I have given my opinion, because it will not significantly affect the later discussion, where I am an authorised rapporteur on these agenda points. When an opinion is set aside on a committee, it is usually because of disagreement with the very text of the laws under discussion, so whatever the content of the law means. In my case it is not, because I do not consider these laws so bad, they originate or rely on the National Employment Strategy brought by the first government of Vojislav Kostunica for the period 2005-2010, namely that in some area a national strategy in Serbia shows the seriousness of access to such a serious problem, in this case the most sensitive, employment problem. And this serious approach, by the way, was the government's manner of doing Vojislav Kostunica. My desire to draw my opinion is not what I could say that the law should have been passed far earlier. All the laws should've been passed long before. Never in time has a law been passed, for those whose problems some law will deal with are always privileged to those losers who were not fortunate to apply their case or their problem to some later passed the law or vice versa. What is an incentive to separatize an opinion is the organisation of the agenda and the place these laws take in order at this session, in which there is little for every minister, any job, any engagement, nothing at last, nothing rounded up, and then it is not finished or solved until the end. The first part of the law on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem, is as a symbolic point in which we prophetically announce a new stage of work in this home, complexly, almost unanimously. Even to that end, there's been an SRS outage, I guess the orchestra would sound more harmonious. After that, there are points of the agenda that unite thirteen laws into two points in the field of ecology, extremely important, but there are several laws left unwarranted in the procedure in the same area, and not considered. It's all over again. It was time for them all to be brought to this home together. Then, conventions and international agreements, nineteen of them, no more or less, and then shyly, so that the Vlasi do not understand, the law on political parties, the key law of this session, along with one that goes into the next item of the agenda, garnered with other laws, as a bad steak covered by contributions – the law on chambers of commerce. As far as we can see, it's not just laws being passed here to regulate an area, but also to demonstrate the power of certain ministers in the government, to impose, if not the power of the arguments, and the power of blackmail, in the divided orchestra of coalition partners that make up the government. Then. We have a point in which we have three laws again, one of which is the key to the one about tourism, which yesterday was unmistakably defended by the vice president, Prime Minister Dinkic, convincing the public of Serbia that all those who have aged and lost their jobs, not the dockers, because the dock is an evil friend, because they think they're being born, but they're skiing on their feet, sticks in their hands, and on the wire and ski resorts, our investment of the century, because otherwise we've always been a power in this sport. We're on ski resorts and grasshoppers like fish in the water, almost like Scandinavians, almost. With this sad, fired and deceived, I recommend only the second part of this sports recreation, the one that refers to, to take the sticks into their hands, either summer or winter, but they will know, in the absence of sticks, sticks can. Here, however, was surprised by that folk verse "when the hook rises and ski sticks, there will be", and then the pirate instrumental goes on. After this only come these two laws, extremely important, this now really looks like a phrase, the laws that govern one of the most important areas and the subject of Serbia, for a long time a topic that deserves to be dealt with seriously and cared for seriously. These are the law on employment and insurance in case of unemployment and the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Work and employment should be the most serious subject of this home, at least one session in general. Not only the legal regulations, but the causes of the dubiosis in which we sink and the ways to fight for its overcoming. This is a moment in which someone must stop calling for only one excuse – the global economic crisis, and try to seek serious solutions so that Serbia does not fear hunger, poverty and cancellation. Let us remember the kind of rage we were condemning Slobodan Milosevic when he founded the folk kitchens, and they became a brand for us, positive news in the RTS shock log... (President: National MPs, time available to deliver an isolated opinion has been used. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17463	Just one explanation. Employment is in the power of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, not only in the mandate of this government, but also in the mandate of the previous government, it is, in our opinion, about the good place that concerns both the economy and tourism and all those industries that directly implicate the number of employees. I apologize to those MPs who know this, but I just got the impression that Mr. Ljajic's mention was about a previous period, when work and employment were in one portfolio.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17464	Right on line, MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17465	Of course I know it's in this ministry, but I was really expecting Mr. Rasim Ljajic, because he's the minister of labour and social affairs and he can say a lot about these laws. I think you'd say it very overly and competently. Don't mind me, but I don't think there should be so many different, diverse categories gathered in one ministry, so to speak of social problems, I don't think they'll be effectively solved, I'll talk about it later, but I really expected Mr. Rasim Ljajic, who, you will admit, at this point is more invited than you to defend these laws, if the other minister couldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17466	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Applications for a word on this subject have already been made by the MPs: Elvira Kovač, Vesna Pesic, Milisav Petronijevic, Jovan Palalić, Marina Ragus and Nikola Krpić. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Madam Chairman, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to express my dissatisfaction that Mr Mladjan Dinkic is not present. As an authorised promoter, Mr Dinkic has been proposed, but with all due respect to Ms. Minister, I thank you for a very comprehensive and detailed introduction. Since I am a personal member of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, we met with the other representatives of the Ministry several times both in the debate in principle and in the debate in particular. What I wanted to say in my presentation, in front of the Group of Minorities, is that we are all aware that the problem of high unemployment is one of the main and biggest burning problems in this country. On the other hand, we need to understand that this unsatisfactory situation is something that countries in transition always face. We from the SVM and from the Minority Club believe that it is necessary to pass a new law in this area, in the sphere of employment and labour market policies, in order to also do so in this legal way, therefore, in every way possible to affect the improvement of the existing situation. We also heard about the Minister's presentation and everyone, since I'm an economist, we realize that employment growth depends on a lot of activity. One of the most important things we're working on is attracting foreign investment, direct investment. What I would not agree to do very well is accelerate regional co-operation, therefore, within the region itself, as well as economic co-operation with many foreign countries. I think our country should work better on regional co-operation itself. The first draft law, which I wanted to talk about, since it is a two-law joint discussion, is a draft law on employment and insurance in case of unemployment. The proposed legal text regulates active employment policy measures. As we have heard, the newspaper and good in these measures is that they are finally flexible, or adaptable to the needs of the labour market itself. Specific measures proposed in the text: additional education, requalification or prequalification of unemployed persons for the so-called so-called ‘unemployed’. Deficitary professions, that is, those that do not have enough. All of this in order to increase the employment of unemployed people. The aim of the proposed law, which we will vote for and which hopefully will soon be adopted and applied, which is much more significant, is that within this, I can't say very badly, but yes, we have heard from statistics, unfortunately, adverse situations, however, allow for the achievement of the highest degree of employment. We heard at one of the seminars that, in fact, some figures and that they don't mean an increase in employment. The aim of this law is to increase employment and thus prevent the problem of long-term unemployment in our country. I would like to briefly mention the very principles on which this legal text is based and what are the basic principles, which are very important, the prohibition of discrimination, which we have talked about and which we certainly advocate. It is very important, impartial, total objectivity in the employment of a person, as a young woman I must stress that it is very important that the text, as a basic principle, mentions gender equality. What I would like to point out and what is most positive in the whole legal text are affirmative actions towards more employable unemployed people, as well as freedom of choice of profession and job. The bill explains in detail what the unemployed are, in fact, the more difficult category of employment. These are persons who, due to their health status, inadequate education, lack of consistency and demand on the labour market or other objective circumstances, find employment more difficult. Here is the most thought of people with disabilities, but unfortunately, sometimes also of members of national minorities. What is positive, the very affirmative actions proposed in this law mean that positive discrimination is allowed, i.e. that this category of more difficult employees can have some special rights in implementing certain measures of the active employment policy programme. This would mean that the essence of this new law is that the measures that will be taken on the basis of it are mostly directed towards the employment of those unemployed whose position, unfortunately, is the hardest. The proposed law envisions, among other things, the notification of opportunities and conditions for employment, self-employment intervention, professional orientation, giving various advice on planning and career. In the context of the last mentioned measures, professional orientations and counselling, it is explained in detail what it really means. This would mean helping to choose and change professions and seek employment, professional guidance, and what is important is to develop the ability of unemployed people to make decisions on their own development, on their own careers, develop the ability to actively seek jobs, and what few people know. Of course, various employment subsidies are also mentioned. The employment subsidy with employers under this law is approved for the employment of unemployed persons in newly-opened or vacant jobs, while the support programmes on self-employment of unemployed persons are mainly aimed at establishing a business, cooperative, any other form of entrepreneurship by the unemployed, one unemployed or a group of persons, several unemployed. The new solutions to be produced from the proposed text are very important and positive for employers, for the unemployed themselves, but also for the users of the cash compensation. These measures will intensify the final payment, intensive and active employment policy, reduce and eliminate delays in payments of these cash benefits, which we hope and propose will ensure stability and timeliness of income during the duration of unemployment. The second law on the agenda is brand-new, as we heard, it concerns hiring people with disabilities. We from the Minority Club and SVM believe that social inclusion of persons with disabilities is one of the basic issues in all areas of social life and that means respect for fundamental human rights. Let us remember that the right to work is guaranteed to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and people with disabilities should have the exact same rights as other citizens and therefore they must have equal opportunities to exercise those rights. As mentioned at the outset, I would like to point out that we will vote on these two draft laws in the voting day. I mentioned in the introduction that, first of all, a few weeks ago, we passed the roof law, the anti-discrimination law. I then stressed that it was positive that the Law against Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities already exists and was adopted two years ago, I think. This would mean that there is already a legal ban on discrimination against persons with disabilities, and we are doing so to promote equality in the exercise of their rights and obligations. And the bill we're talking about today is the draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. The title itself shows that its primary goal is to promote the right to hire and provide jobs for people with various types of disabilities. This is important not only for the purpose of providing jobs but also for their inclusion in all areas of social life. SVM and other parties belonging to the Minority Parliament Club are for the equality of all of us, i.e. for equal opportunities in the labour market for all, regardless of certain specificities, such as, say, health status, gender, membership of a particular national minority, etc. Professional rehabilitation is explained in detail in the legal text. It involves programmes of measures and activities to be carried out with a view to enabling people with disabilities first to qualify for the job, since I mentioned that they are hired, to stay at the workplace or, more importantly, to make progress in these jobs, or to requalified for someone else. Here are the concrete measures and activities of professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, concrete measures of active employment policy, finally not passive but active. Personally, I find it very important to motivate people with disabilities first and provide them with the necessary technical assistance, professional support, their counselling, training and similar jobs. Once again, I point out, the permanent objective of this law, which we support, is to engage, and thus improve all aspects of the lives of people with disabilities. We have heard that this is a completely new bill because it was necessary by law to prescribe the obligation to provide space and adequate technical and other equipment for the training and work of these people, to adapt jobs, and all of this in accordance with their mental and physical abilities, needs, opportunities and desires. – I express my great satisfaction that the adoption of this bill will finally fill the legal gap that exists in this area and all in line with the positive European legislation. This law requires employment obligations for persons with disabilities, covering all companies, authorities of the state administration, local self-government, public service, banks, financial organisations and many other legal and natural persons with at least 20 employees. The application of these legal provisions will ultimately allow social inclusion for a much greater number of people with disabilities. As we stressed in our pre-election programme, the Hungarian coalition's goal, SVM, is that all, and hence, members of the national minority, persons with disabilities and other vulnerable groups participate in the labour market on equal terms. We are in favour of building and maintaining social protection, which unites the principles of social security, social solidarity, the responsibilities of each individual and gives everyone a truly equal chance. As promised, we will vote in favour of reducing the payment of unemployment benefits, for better social care of those unemployed and higher levels of equality of persons with disabilities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17468	The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Pesic. Please just press the key.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17469	I would also like to welcome the adoption of these laws first. As far as the first law is concerned, I will be very brief because other colleagues have prepared to speak more about this law. Since we have limited time, then I will speak in that part of our famous 13. 14 minutes. I will talk about this law concerning employment and unemployment insurance, i.e. I would say that it is good to introduce these active employment measures, because they can certainly contribute to an increase in employment, especially when considering that there is a huge fear here and with this emerging crisis of job loss, and there is growing concern about whether people will be able to employ more at all. One job individually, not to look at high percentages and large numbers, I always assume it means a lot. I would like to say one thing, when it comes to our unemployment, is that Mrs. Minister Verica Kalanovic said that there are clearly very high unemployment rates that characterise Serbia and which place it in line countries with the highest unemployment rates, which are indeed due to macroeconomic measures, precisely because of macroeconomic policy, and it is said in article 39 -- that the action plan contains a macroeconomic framework for the creation of employment policy. I would like to say that the proposed active measures are OK, but we still have to point out in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the issue of responsibility – why is it, after nine years, that I don't count on the previous period, the development of our economy so bad and why hasn't a new economy produced jobs? In other words, I think our transition was very unsuccessful, especially in the privatisation part, and that these privatisations in a large number of cases, we still don't have the data, were very unsuccessful, that we didn't control the origin of the money. There are also issues raised by other parties – there is also a question of bankruptcy. And there are cardinal mistakes that have actually shown that we have not stimulated a new and healthy economy, but that we have cut, destroyed, because of various other interests that are not allowed, which are corruptive economies, and this has largely damaged the issue, opportunities and opportunities for the development of a healthy economy, which is practically the only condition for increasing the employment rate in our country. I have otherwise concentrated on talking about this other law. I'm moving on to another law that's been presented here quite correctly, that it's a whole new law and that its adoption is really justified, not only as it says here, because you have a technological development, that social relations are changing. That's absolutely true. It is certain that the advancement of technology is also possible to reflect and reflect on the employment opportunities of people with disabilities. I would point out that this law, it is very important to shed light on this fact, although the result of a series of documents that we have also brought, given our tendency to approach one day and join the EU, must be the incentive standards that we must adopt in the EU. Of course, there comes the EU Social Charter and a series of documents from the International Labour Organisation, its two conventions, also mentioned here, as well as the UN Convention. I have to say this time, even though we've wasted a great deal of time here when it came to the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, let's see that Article 26 of that law really prohibits discrimination against persons with disabilities. Now we see how important this is, so even what counterpart Kovac just said, this law is due to the growth of consciousness that no individual should be discriminated against on any basis, not based on disability. It must have had a crucial impact on the passing of such a law, and I welcome it to the full. If this discrimination is present and people with disabilities have been going through a lot of trouble since their earliest childhood, it is doubtless, the fact suggests that out of 22,000 people with disabilities who require employment is 7% higher education. You see, that's a very high percentage if there is a knowledge of the qualifications structure in Serbia, which, as much as we call for our human resources, you in the ministry certainly know and we all know, how few educated and capable people in our country, and I think this even exceeds that percentage of Serbia, if we forget what percentage was in formerly great Yugoslavia, this even exceeds this average percentage with high education. This, for Serbia, is a very high percentage that 7% are highly educated among people with disabilities, who do not have employment and who seek employment. That fact itself suggests discrimination against these people, or that our system has really not adapted to these highest standards of civil rights, means equal opportunities, not discrimination and marginalisation that existed in this area. I think that some solutions in this law are very good, especially those relating to professional rehabilitation, where we have whole models and legal formulations that show that we seem to have accepted these social models that are the most modern, and also to encourage the employers themselves and the persons themselves with disabilities for employment. Those are good solutions, and they should certainly be commended. However, if we start from these values, from the full equality of citizens, and especially from what the National Strategy points out, and that's an inclusion, I don't like to use those foreign words, so I'm going to translate that word immediately, in fact 'inclusive', in English means inclusion, and very often we here from this pay phone use such terms as our citizens can't understand, because foreign words, and mass in use, therefore, inclusion means being involved, i.e. as much involvement as possible of all citizens, regardless of any personal characteristics, on definitions, whether they're political, sexual, whether it's about persons with disabilities, so inclusion in all areas of social life – politics, work and especially employment, which is crucial. If this is the case, I would place certain objections to this law with the highest standards of non-discrimination, the opening of opportunities for all citizens, for inclusion in all areas of social activities, and point to certain shortcomings in the law. Given this criticism that I'm about to make here, I've submitted a set of amendments, and I'd like the Ministry to consider them and see which amendments it might accept, by speaking about article 8, I've made one big mistake, I've simply been stealing myself from typing, but I'm going to correct it orally now, and then I'm going to give it in writing. So, what would be some kind of basic objection to this law? The main objection concerns the question and perhaps some contradictions between standards when it comes to education, professional rehabilitation and training, and one institution that is introduced here and with status, which is referred to by the Minister, that is Article 4, where it is determined for the first time by the status of persons with disabilities, so it lists six of these statuses, which refers to a person who, in accordance with this law, assesses the working capacity according to which employment or maintenance of employment is possible, or employment. You see, from article number one, the assessment of work ability, to Article 4, where I have now quoted the status of persons with disabilities, then chapter 3 – Assessment of work ability, individual associations of citizens who are active when it comes to these problems have a point of view to the assessment of their ability, and I have in this respect brought my amendments into line. What are those remarks? The comments are that there are certain committees, applying practically to the Employment Service or the Employment Agency, and I have to say that these active employment measures always increase the administration, and then some times we can be confused when I say the Agency or the Agency, so they register where everyone is looking for employment and then they determine some commissions that need to be based on medical, social and other criteria to determine that degree of ability. They have doubts that such assessment of abilities, which are in fact some kind of selection, some kind of selection, that they are one-time objections and that it is not good that the person who has already been isolated by a series of circumstances, who has not entered the communication process, who has not entered the training process is being evaluated somewhere (maintaining those commissions was probably taken into account that they too should survive, these are some people who may be taking some kind of fee) that they are being assessed so once because it could lead to their marginalisation or, as I say, to cutting off this continuous path where they could be rehabilitated and then employed. So that assessment is overly harsh. If you don't accept that argument that I'm making here right now, to throw out this assessment of working ability, so that such a one-time assessment could actually indirectly bring it in, it doesn't directly say it here, to discrimination of these people, but on the first step, not to take into account the whole context of the lifestyle of these individuals. Besides, I'm warning you and calling on other things. Remember, please, when we're on our own in the exam, do we show our greatest possibilities in the exam or when we're freed? So, the person who already has some interference, if he comes to that commission, her distractions will only increase. The question is how much is the possibility of such a one-time commission setting up some criteria, where doctors are practically dominated. I think it should be rephraseed and that we should talk about things, but not in that way, but in another way. In fact, to show that all support is needed for such a person, who is in need of all training, in such a way that certain social services could help that person. So, it's about support, about an assessment of support, not about somebody knocking themselves over some criteria, and when they're gonna get back on that committee, whether some of its development is going to be taken into account, or if it's another new label you're going to get, to tell him -- you have to get a job here, you can't do this, or you can't say -- you can't get a job at all! I point out the potential for the roughness of such commissions, as we know so far and I propose, if my amendments are rejected, to accept what is in one place – that the minister can decide on, to accept the development in sublegal acts, and to introduce one new one, to accept one development to show that this assessment would be consistent with people who, too, represent a natural environment of such persons, so that there could really be a real chance in that assessment, not that it would be like this, as we know those crowds and where there are disabled commissions. Here, why am I particularly emphasising this? I especially stress this because it is under the impression that this law pays far more attention to the implications and tries to open new chances for persons with physical disabilities, and that they are less shown the possibility of being employed, rehabilitated and whether there is no possibility of still large social marginalisation of people, persons with intellectual individuality. There is not enough indication that such a system takes into account such persons and gives them equal chances. With this in mind, I ask the question – this law does not raise a question of business skills at all. If that question does not open, you know that people with intellectual disabilities are normally deprived of their business ability, that they are under custody and are treated as people who are not fourteen years old, and you know that already persons who are 15, who are not full-time and are not able to do business in full terms, that they have a working ability. Therefore, there is no analysis of this whole problem, and I stress that there is then a huge possibility that there is a marginalisation of a large number of people with disabilities, people with intellectual disabilities, people who, because of their business ability, can also automatically be rejected at these estimates. I point out that this problem has indeed remained unsolved here. We've been trying with these associations, kind of fast-tracking this problem to open up, but we haven't had any success, and that's why I'm saying this stays a big problem. I don't know how you're going to solve it, and does that mean that even though this great principle I could read now, from these European conventions and action plans and charters, we still have a very big problem here. I say that this law has not solved this problem and that is why I point out its shortcomings, precisely in terms of these highest principles. The second thing we pointed out in our analysis and trying to fix this law is precisely the forms of employment of persons with disabilities, that's Article 43. You see, you've praised one new institution here, I don't know if it's brand-new, it used to be protection workshops, the whole tendency when it comes to disabled people, it's going to be another new one that's terribly important for anti-discrimination. If I talked about integration earlier, it means that forms of employment or forms of helping people with disabilities go to those forms and works like the open market, therefore, to go to deinstitutionalisation, because the main segregation of disabled people was through the creation of special institutions and they were getting away from the eyes so we couldn't see them, so they went to work or to be institutionalized. As for the concept of a working centre, which stands here as a possibility of employment in a separate sense, we insisted on enabling the employment of disabled persons to be fully and exclusively in the open economy, but with certain support that would come from certain services. And that disabled people and those suffering from intellectual or physical disturbances have the opportunity to work in an open economy. Work centres, I have to say, there's a specific roughness here that I want to point out, that there's some kind of working therapy going on. It's said that the word "employment" is like working therapy. Obviously this applies to people with intellectual disorders, these are not patients, working therapy, if we want, probably, there are those who understand psychiatry, that psychiatric patients can do certain work therapy to correct their status. When it comes to disability status, it's not about patients, so this patronistic approach, that it's about some of the treatments that are being conducted here, it's not about any therapy, it's about closed employment, I don't think this is good, and it opens up great opportunities, a return to institutional access, and the National Strategy has given up that kind of approach. Finally, I end up with another complex, which my amendment speaks of, where you can very easily fix, it is said that these work centres and other new organisations that are spoken of, businesses, organisations, social enterprises and social organisations can be established by the Republic, the province or local self-government. There is no reason for these institutions to remain completely state-owned institutions, but I added in the amendment that they can be established by NGOs, and by private individuals, and to extend it, so I suggest that the amendment be accepted. Please seriously consider these well-intentioned criticisms of mine, because I do not think that this area is exposed to any party or political bickering, but we are all obliged to pay equal attention and help, as well as to do everything possible for people with disabilities, whether physically or intellectually, to get all the rights and opportunities for development. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17470	The word was sought by Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17471	Thank you for your participation and for participating in the drafting of this text, given that you have had a very large engagement both in the submission of amendments and in the correction of certain parts. I wanted to say that some of your proposals were passed through the amendments. Mr. Omerovic could transfer you information from the board. On the other hand, some could not be adopted in the form in which you suggested, but compromises were found to determine the status of persons with disabilities related to Article 4. You were talking about a group of associations that spoke to you. You called them, I don't know if the name is absolutely acceptable, by intellectual disability, but there are significant numbers of other associations that have sought to determine the status through the commission, so that they can participate equally in an open game, in an open job search. What was found as a compromise? The sublegal act will regulate this area so that according to the criteria and the established method of determining with the medical committee, but with a report on each individual, it will determine the status so as not to damage one group, and in order to meet this other group of people who are just about to go through one such assessment. This is where we found, it seems, a compromise, was not adopted, but it was adopted to regulate the criteria and way of determining the status by sublaw. As for the second part, one part you talked about is governed by the Family Act, and that is within the jurisdiction of that law, but most of your proposals are accepted through work centres and through founders, they can also be NGOs, it's not explicit that it has to be a public service, that it's not just a state and a province and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17472	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17473	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us two laws that effectively regulate four areas and I will give a brief review of all four areas on behalf of the SPS-JS Group. First, when it comes to the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, the law that regulates and the area of professional rehabilitation which includes organisation and implementation of measures and activities to train for the job, employment, maintenance of employment, promotion, etc., and on the other hand, employment of persons with disabilities under general conditions, when neither job changes nor job adapts to job or job, and especially when adapting both job and job. So this law aims to enable, first of all, the inclusion in the world of the work of these persons and, of course, into all spheres and streams of social life. I would like to say that for the reasons that we have heard, therefore, from the very bill and the reasons of the Minister, and so far, the SPS-JS Group will support this bill. Just for a little while, let me explain that we believe that two or three things should be pointed out. First of all, the question of social inclusion of these persons, persons with disabilities, in all areas of social life, of course, involving in labour markets, is not only a question of social policy, but, as we have heard, and a question of respect for human rights. So it's not just a matter of providing existentially these people, it's a question of involving in all spheres of life. It's on one side. On the other hand, there are about 700,000 people with disabilities in Serbia, about 300,000 workers, of which 21,000 are employed. The most important issue for these people is in fact employment and has primary importance for improving the living and working conditions of these persons. If these expectations are met and more than 7,000 people are talking about being employed, that is quite a reason to support this law. Also, I want the public to know that the law introduces employment obligations. It is already said that it refers to all companies, all bodies, etc. And it is clear that all those who have over 20 employees, up to 50, are obliged to employ one person, one person with disabilities, and over 52, and every other 50 by one. It's a commitment now. Of course, the law also provided for an exception, which companies can be freed from and under what conditions, counting on those newly established, counting those already participating in rehabilitation, counting on those who buy products in public procurement procedures from companies for professional rehabilitation, etc. Another important issue, and I would not be longer, is the possibility that companies that do not employ people with disabilities are obliged to pay at least three minimum earnings to the budget fund. In law it stands as a penalty, I do not like that word for the simple reason that what is foreseen is not a punishment for the company, but another possibility, an alternative for such a thing. Not to owe any more of this, we will support this law. When it comes to the law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment, I would also like to say, as the minister in its presentation, that there is no more important issue in Serbia than this issue. There is no greater fear of unemployment and joblessness among Serbian citizens. Serbia is in big trouble, high unemployment rates and low employment rates. There's no doubt that this question must be a priority. There is no doubt that any measure of government, any authority, any law that will regulate employment at least one will have the support of the SPS. Of course, we know it's not the law that can solve that question. Employment growth depends, above all, on the development of the economy, above all on economic development and that is the main issue. The state should focus all its attention on this in order to create an opportunity for greater employment of people. I just want to stick to four questions when it comes to employment. When it comes to active employment policy measures, not to list all those measures already provided for in the law, I would like to point out one thing in particular, and these are public works. The Socialist Party of Serbia has long insisted on predicting, planning and opening public works as the possibility of hiring heavily employable, socially endangered, but at the same time as the possibility for the municipality, the province, Serbia to obtain new values in this territory. I want to welcome this initiative and what it seems. As far as I can see, competitions have been announced in the means of information. We think it's an opportunity, another opportunity to hire people. Secondly, I would like to point out, to support the introduction of a national employment action plan as a basic, as a central instrument for planning an active employment policy, which will serve as a basis for budgetary planning in the area of employment. Of course, what follows is the category of the action act at the end of each year. I support and want to look very briefly at myself, simply for the sake of the public, without question, I think it is necessary that the proposer explain even more to the public that there is nothing but good intentions behind it, which is the introduction of individual plans. Individual employment plans, which determine the participation of unemployment in active employment policy measures. There's nothing to add to that sentence. It must not be the impression that it will be just too much administration, 800,000 contracts, especially the impression that, given the possibility that the agency can be entrusted with the job, that in fact only this way is the job done to the employment agencies. Of course, I don't think it's the intensity of it being an idea, but it has to be very clear to the public about something like that. We'll come later to the part that talks about people who, I say, are the most endangered, and these are people who are out of a job, and very little is left to their pension. Here's a chance, let's make individual plans with them and thus encourage the employment of that category of people. The fourth question, again, in order to avoid any ambiguity, is the National Employment Service. The National Employment Service, I recall, is an organisation of mandatory social security, organized in a way that can get the impression that it actually becomes a state body. I think that, in front of the promoter these days, until the specifics are considered, until the vote, it's time for these issues to be clarified. How is it otherwise intended to organize the ministry? First of all, we're talking about the authorities, the board of directors, the board of directors are being abolished. That requires a more detailed explanation. The Management Board is organised in a way to reduce to nine, but it is said that among those nine there is a director who is, however, conditionally speaking, an official of this country, it is noted that four members of the board of directors are appointed by the Government on a proposal from the competent minister, of which two from the ministry. I think that this issue should be reconsidered and you have several solutions through amendments, very correct, different variants, but the bottom line is that this should be an independent organisation of mandatory social security and the bottom line is that all three social partners should have an equal relationship. Employment is something all three of them have. I think the part that talks about employment enjoys our support and I wouldn't hold on to it any longer. In the end, I want to keep your attention to the area – unemployment insurance. Unlike the previous one where we have a positive approach, I have to tell you that we have great objections to this part of the law. Previously, we know the position, we don't question the law, but we think there's room for an amendment to be considered, until adoption, to discuss it even more in detail with the goal of getting an even better, good law and it being socially just law. Just to remind you, unemployment insurance is part of a mandatory citizen insurance system that provides rights for unemployment on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. We're talking about insurance as a category, not social aid. Mandatory unemployment insurance provides unemployment rights and that – cash compensation, health insurance, pension disability insurance in accordance with the law, other rights in accordance with the law and the general act. We don't think this part of the law has worked out well. We think it's more restrictive than the existing law. We think there's a lot more to talk about before there's a final adoption. When I say that, I have three things in mind. This proposed law is restrictive when it comes to the amount of cash compensation, and when it comes to duration, and when it comes to re-application for cash compensation. When it comes to active employment policy and money compensation, of course it's always a priority to hire a man and there's no dilemma. I'm talking about a category of people who can't get a job, who have lost their jobs, not their own guilt, and who the state has to worry about. When it comes to the amount of compensation, so far it was 60% of the average profit, which it brought over the last six months, the first three months, and then 50%. Now you're predicting 50%. Secondly, when it comes to the restriction, which should certainly be, so far has been the maximum of the average earnings in Serbia minimum earnings. It is now proposed by this law that maximum 160% of minimum earnings is a minimum 80% of minimum earnings. It's a 20% reduction, at least, I'm talking about the number that's being mentioned here. Come on, if the top was considered big, even though I don't think so, because it's about insurance, it's about those who were paying to have the right to something like that, why did we cut the minimum to 80%?- I'm sorry. When it comes to the duration, up to 20 years of internships, not to fool the whole scale, the rest is the same. Where's the restrictions going? From 20 years of age, to those who are in the most difficult situation. We all know that this has become a fact that someone who is 5-6 years old until retirement is out of a job, not with his own guilt, can hardly get a job, no one will hire him. Don't put this burden on them. The third restriction refers to re-application. So far, the same solution has been that it can re-apply in accordance with conditions that it meets, except for people who have over 25 years of training, who can use all the time of the internship. It's been erased. It's the most endangered category of inhabitants again. So that I don't give any more details, there'll be an opportunity when they're amended, I just want to say this: we don't think that's good. We believe that what the promoter insists on, rightly insists that more attention be paid to the active employment policy, we support it, but the impression is that this law does so, that this cost should be paid by those who do not. There's also a sum of 1.5 billion to be saved. I remind you that the government has a proper policy, that in measures for Serbia's economic stability it has protected the most vulnerable categories of people, so it said -- it will not apply to pensioners, it will not apply to all employees in social activities, otherwise it will not apply to the state administration if it is below 40,000. Why does it apply here to the unemployed, to save on them, and they're in the most difficult situation? Someone who's busy living in a difficult situation because it's a small salary, but the hardest thing is for someone who has nothing, who's unemployed! I think we should talk about these solutions, for the simple reason, because it makes the situation of poor layers and unemployment more difficult. We agree that it takes more for active policy measures, but we believe that the level of existing rights in this area should be maintained. This is how you get the impression, and today it's modern to talk about saving, that we're going to save on those who don't, and we have opportunities. Every day they open, yesterday, the day before yesterday, a table and a change of regulatory bodies, huge wages, we can't claim what they are, there's space. Do not let the one who has lost his job and who is to receive the compensation because he paid for the insurance case, in case of unemployment, to bear the cost! Let those who have, and let the Government do it, be done in the Assembly, but in a serious way. This becomes a bit of an untasteful race for who will suggest what, who, who, the other in the Assembly should do, except sit down, what is overly abolished, which is highly reduced and comes out with serious measures in a serious way. The Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia has invested, not agreeing with that, amendments that we have submitted on their behalf. This was joined by the Union of the Union of Slogs and we want... (President: 20 minutes, MP, time has been used. )......................................................................................................... I end up, having a whole series of conversations, finding the best solution until the end of the debate on this law in particular, so that the burden doesn't come down to those who don't. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17474	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17475	Dear People's MP, I do not want to discuss today the proposals concerning your amendments will be discussed later. Clearly, all suggestions have been considered in detail. The basic idea of the law is to turn part of the means and way of thinking with passive measures towards active measures to look for work. I made it clear that the funds that are being paid to this passive rate, which refers to unemployment insurance, at this point in 2009, are 20 billion, compared to 3.5 billion that are planned for a 10 times bigger population and are on the National Employment Service's record. That's not why I answered. Billions and ones mentioned in the reasoning of the law do not constitute savings which will be returned to the budget, nor is it the purpose of this law to be taken from the unemployed, 1.5 billion which is related to certain smaller funds provided for by law for passive measures will be reorientated to another fund, to active measures. You commended the public works. One of the active measures that has been defined through the competition these days and will be realised are public works. It is certain that 1.5 billion will not return, but will go to that kind of active measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17476	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17477	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Kalanovic, at first I would like to say that we expected this law to explain and defend competent Minister Mladjan Dinkic, given that, in the description of this massive ministry and employment, we felt it was not appropriate for the Minister in charge of the National Investment Plan to defend a law that certainly cannot have any effect under these conditions. It would be important if we heard Mr Dinkic, who is Minister of Economy, and to see how this law on employment and social unemployment can be applied, that the effects that are currently in the conditions in which the Serbian economy is located, especially in the conditions of the proposed Government measures. I want to say at the beginning what kind of atmosphere it is in which a law is passed in Serbia that should encourage employment. The atmosphere was created by the government of the Republic of Serbia with its decisions and policies. All the contradictions of proposing this law in such an atmosphere say nothing more than that this law is a clear marketing move by the government, and on the other hand, the effect of this law is a serious collapse of another institution, which is the National Employment Service. This law is passed under conditions when Serbia, on the one hand, began unilaterally applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which will directly reduce revenues, on the one hand, is estimated to be around 300m euros, and on the other hand, seriously endangering our economy, our entrepreneurs, especially agriculture, those who actually need to be a place of employment. The law is passed under conditions of general indifference of the Serbian economy. I see these days that the government is trying to solve liquidity with funds that banks need to place businesses, to beg banks to lower interest rates, and on the other hand, that the state becomes the majority owner, to literally convert its claim into capital in companies that are unable to settle their obligations. This is the way the government is trying to solve liquidity and the big problems that exist in the economy, which should be a space for employment. The law is passed under the conditions of extremely low subsidies to agriculture, which should be the holder of employment of more than 500,000 people. At the same time, these lowest subsidies in the region are reduced to a very small number of agricultural citizens. Agricultural enterprises and agricultural cooperatives and unregistered agricultural holdings are also excluded, and even those registered agricultural holdings where a citizen in that agricultural land has a real working relationship besides the farming industry itself. So, in an atmosphere where the Government directly damages local self-government by removing 15 billion-dollar transfer funds, which are mainly intended for investment jobs, we have talked here about investment, public works, how people will be employed in the province's administration, when they will not have the opportunity to resolve current responsibilities without talking about wider activities that involve investment and employment of new people. At the same time, the possibility of self-employment is extremely limited by the means provided for by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we have a complete abolition of independence, we have seen, the Development Fund, we have seen, the business chambers of Serbia and now the National Employment Service. Both the Development Fund and the National Employment Service are literally becoming departments of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The question arises as to what kind of role they play and what effect the National Employment Service is when there is no, seen through structure, its bodies, no more independence in the conduct of a more serious employment policy. Of course, the additional burden that we have been talking about here today will be the possibility of setting up employment agencies that have the same competences and the possibility of performing jobs as the National Employment Service. Then the question, which is raised here during the debate, is where the funds will go, I'm talking about active employment measures, which I say, cut off the unemployed with an internship of over 25 years, i.e. they shall be reduced to the possibility of paying a fee per year and the amount of the funds. – It will go to these newly formed agencies, which will be doing parallel jobs as well as the National Employment Service, where jobs will probably be obtained by representatives of the ruling coalition and directly by those funds that are being taken to the most vulnerable category at the moment that should actively seek a job, which are unemployed who have more than 25 years of training, which are the most difficult, which need more time for professional retraining, to get the opportunity to find a job, have been abolished for a year the right to compensation and are still being reduced to them, so these funds will be neatly directed to another agency formed by this law. The employment law for unemployment is a law that directly deny that this government is socially responsible. It is difficult to imagine that, on the one hand, when we have to give up the employment policy that the prime minister put out in the exposé because the President of the Republic said that the essence of the defence jobs is to lower the remuneration of the persons who remain in these conditions without a job. We lower both the highest and lowest amount of compensation. Why did she give up on the average salary? We haven't heard any serious explanations about it here. The question arises why has the period of compensation been reduced by a year? Why those most endangered faces? They're the hardest to find a job. Have we given up on these faces, these citizens of ours? We say, it's okay, you've lost your job, you've been able to manage after a year as you know and can. We have not heard such an explanation here, and they will be most affected by this economic crisis and this inequity in the Serbian economy. Of course, the big question is why the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to place the position of the National Employment Service in this way. It becomes a single department of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development based on all these provisions, by abolishing the Supervisory Board, by the structure of the board of directors, by participating in the board of directors, by playing a large role played by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development in proposing to the board of directors. Then it's strange why the big bells here say the contract between the National Employment Service and the Ministry will now be concluded for the first time. We suggest, once you're on this path, that you finish this job, that the director be part of the ministry, that the minister evaluates him for his work performance in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, as an ordinary employee in that ministry. Or, as we suggest, accept the DSS amendments that have rightly defined the position of the National Employment Service. We believe that these solutions, especially the introduction of employment agencies, which under this law can form physical and legal persons are something amazing. These agencies, by law, have the same jobs as the National Service and will get jobs from the National Service to ask for a job, to do the same jobs the National Service does. - I'm asking a question, what's the point of these agencies? Who's gonna get those jobs? What are the criteria for getting these jobs? What are these people gonna do? What funds will be paid to them? We're talking about agencies these days, about the amounts that some agency employees have. We're talking about savings. At the same time, the possibility of establishing an agency that will be financed by state funds is announced. We're talking about savings, and we're giving room for these funds to be spent in a completely irrational way. And in the draft of a law on equal regional development, it is predicted that, again, agencies whose role is absolutely unknown are formed. We believe that the solutions in this bill cannot in any way in these conditions in which the Serbian economy is located to solve the employment problem. He will, on the one hand, collect all this activity because he allows new authorities and new people to participate in this whole process, those most interested will not have the possibility of participating in the board of directors and supervisors and, on the other hand, the National Service itself will lose its role so far. It's certainly not a strengthening of the National Service, as said here in the discussion. It's just collapsing as it happens with chambers of commerce, as it happens with the Development Fund. As far as the second bill is concerned, we believe that this law, when its standards are looked at, when the work of its institutes is looked at, will not have any effect. The idea is good, the intention is quite good, and it's absolutely necessary law, but as it's defined, as the institutes that are meant to be here are not going to be able to meet the needs. We are afraid that one important law, one important substance, will be completely devoid of effect and will completely disappoint those who expect the most, and these are the disabled. The DSS has submitted a series of amendments to this bill as well. First, we believe that if a budget fund is already being established, all jobs should be financed when it comes to rehabilitation and, in general, professional recruitment and employment of disabled people, that they too must have their own participation in the decision-making of the fund, their representatives and their associations. What is a very interesting issue these days is the government's announcement that any employment will be prohibited in the coming period in government and state bodies, without the government's consent, because it is a austerity measure. The law defines that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia must also hire disabled people and that is fine. In case they don't, they'll pay their own pens. Now the question arises, that someone from the government should give here an explanation, in which way these two contradictory decisions of the government here can be reconciled, precisely in a situation that is most sensitive, which is important when it comes to disabled people. We have not received such an answer, and therefore we insist that this law will not, unfortunately, have those effects that are expected of it. At the end of this first part of my presentation, I want to say that employment is something that is certainly the basis of any serious economic policy. We didn't get here from the government's representatives any serious data and analysis of the effects of the application of this law. Let's say, in what way is the effect of the disability laws expected in the next period, just when it comes to the employment of disabled people, to see how the government projects the application of this law? And not to mention the issue of employment at all, the issue of unemployment insurance, and to see how the government measured that those who are being reduced in compensation and reduced the period of remuneration, precisely because such decisions are being made, would be easier to find a job after the end of that period. We believe these laws should be withdrawn from the procedure, do so. In the debate in particular, the DSS Parliamentary Group will clearly point out to what extent these laws can be corrected by the amendments it has submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17478	The word is a folk letter from Snow White Sedlar-Kenig.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17479	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, Madam Minister, the opinion of our G17 parliamentary group is that at the time of this global economic crisis, therefore, at the moment when the crisis is growing stronger and deeper earthquakes and our state of Serbia, it is very brave, but at the same time necessary, as well as responsible, to bring about a new law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment. In Serbia, the labour market is characterized by formal high unemployment, formal high employment, we are witnessing these days that it is properly recorded in the state administration, low participation of employment in the private sector, you can take all statistics from the National Employment Service, as well as the broad presence of the gray economy. One of the objectives of the European Partnership in the area of employment policy is the need to develop and implement the promotion of employment, as well as the fight against unemployment. We remember that on 14 April 2005, we adopted a National Employment Strategy from 2005 to 2010, which essentially represented and represented a clear idea towards a European employment strategy, but with a necessarily different approach due to our specific conditions and problems in the labour market. This draft employment and unemployment insurance law is essentially a change in employment policy, a shift in employment policy from passive to active. As has already been said, we have so far had, in favour of passive employment policy measures, to be precise, i.e. in the contribution of the beneficiaries of financial compensation and other unemployment insurance rights, 80% of the resources of the National Employment Service, allocated from the budget for that purpose, in favour of the beneficiaries of the cash compensation, compared to those of which there are, by the way, 755,000 total unemployed, and the beneficiary of the cash compensation of 72,000. So even the rate of the beneficiary's cash compensation is less than 10%. I've been lucky to do jobs in the Hipol Chemical Industry in Odjacs for many years, in her golden age. So I took part in the employment business of over 500 workers of the chemical industry with high business risk. I also had, to say, happiness and great experience, but in some ways and an accident that only three months I'm dealing with the job insurance of the unemployed in the National Employment Service, in the Novi Sad branch, which, for those who don't know it, is one of the largest branches in the Republic of Serbia. As I did with a lot of elans those jobs that were contained in me then, but they weren't called but active employment measures, they contained also psychotesting and additional training of education and for those we hire and for those who are employed and to acquire new work skills and experiences, with a lot of empathy I had the opportunity to talk to people who came as users of monetary compensation at the National Employment Service, where ten graduate lawyers spent all day knocking out those solutions only. I can tell you that, unfortunately, there have been many abuses. Of course, the largest number of people who were users of cash compensation were completely justified, but unfortunately, among them we had cases of people receiving severances that were not small, with a clear will of employers who were talking about them being a technological surplus, and these severances, unfortunately for them, and unfortunately the state, were far greater than those prescribed by the law. That's not what I'm saying because I think that's the point of the whole story, but what I'm saying is that there's been a lot of abuse. The restructuring of our economy has done its part, so the vast majority of the people on the labour market, who are over 45 and 50, respectively. That's why I think it's very important that the law we recently passed, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which, in part of working relations, also regulated the issue of discrimination based on age, based on the person with disabilities, is based on all those measures we've taken. I think it's the right thing to do, because this law will also apply, based on the principles of gender equality, impartiality in employment, the freeness of services that the National Service makes, the prohibition of discrimination, public works and everything else. All these principles are, to put it fluctuatingly, they are subject to evolution, because we know that time like ours and the development of the economy brings change of conditions on the labour market, and hence the change of legal regulations. In 2007, we had an unemployment rate of 18.8%, and employment was 51.5%, which was very unfavourable and is one of the basic conditions for which we pass this law. The main reason is that indeed the existing regulation does not follow an active employment policy, nor provides for a balance between active and passive employment policies. I must say that Serbia is in the process of European integration. Of course, in the preparation of this proposal, all, as the Minister said, were used, of the directives and resolutions of the EU and the Council of Europe, all relevant conventions of international organisations in the field of work, as well as the highest standards of comparative employment law. Aroundly, the main reasons that define the adoption of this new law, first of all, is that this law does not provide an adequate framework for an active employment policy, and secondly, it is absolutely inflexiblely set in it active employment policy measures. Also, there are no individual employment plans, there is no act to regulate the planned impact of the national service and there is no such thing as a very important system of monitoring the conduct and evaluation of the active employment policy. So that I don't talk about the whole regulation thing, I'm just gonna say something. The subject of regulation of the proposed law, which is very clear and united in this text, are jobs of employment in the Republic of Serbia, the rights and obligations of unemployed and employers, active employment policy, unemployment insurance and other issues of importance for employment. The objective is double-set, in any case, to create conditions to reduce unemployment or to take all the measures necessary for this, with active employment measures being applied, and to create conditions for increasing employment. It changes the definition of an unemployed person who is every person who has 15 years of life to obtain the first conditions for retirement, or up to sixty-five years of life, which is progress in relation to the current law that says they are only persons aged fifteen to sixty-five years of life. How, in some ways, they define employment jobs and I'm going to do a little polluting with my colleague Palalic. They do not have the same authority as the Employment Agency and the National Employment Service. In general, employment is a notification of opportunities and conditions for employment, intermediation of employment in the country and abroad, professional orientation and consultation on career planning, implementation of active employment policy measures and authorisation for the work of a foreigner and a person without citizenship or apatrids. These jobs are carried out by employment operators, in the proposal for this law they are the National Employment Service and the Employment Agency. The National Employment Service has legal personality status with mandatory social security status. It performs employment, unemployment insurance and other rights under that right, and also keeps records in the field of employment. We have changes here compared to the existing law on records. As far as the National Employment Service is concerned, I think it is clearly defined in this proposed act and that it is quite logical that there is no supervisory board, because it is really pointless that there is a supervisory board over the work of a public service, whose bodies are appointed by both the Management Board and the Director of the National Employment Service, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Public Affairs, in this case by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. So far, according to the applicable law, the National Employment Service has 15 members, of which only two or one employee and one employer are. The system of the tripartite structure of the board of directors is now being introduced here, costs are being reduced, and what is important for the structure of the board of directors of four boards of directors is appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Economic and Social Council in the Republic of Serbia, two representatives of employers and two representatives, I will call them, workers, and the ninth member is acting as director of the National Employment Service, which is absolutely logical, because he is a man who is obliged to take care of the legality of the work of this service, to manage this service and this institution that was introduced, and this is an agreement on the impact of the National Employment Service, and is responsible for the planned and realised impact of the National Employment Service. The employment agency has a job mediation function, has a career planning function and a professional orientation. It may be entrusted with some measures from active employment policy, but only if the National Employment Service so decides, with the prior consent of the ministry and with the public procurement procedure implemented. Why do you do that? In order to disburse the resources of the National Employment Service, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to encourage these same agencies to engage in the employment of more employable persons. It's an effect, a degree of measure to them. We also have eliminaters that have been established very precisely for people or legal and physical persons who can be the founders of these agencies. The first elimination factor is that the founder cannot possibly be a person sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence for more than six months, up to three years after the detention of the prison. The second condition is that a person who is the founder of such an agency, and in the previous three years his license has been revoked because he has failed to carry out those tasks in accordance with the law, too, cannot be the founder of the agency. Thirdly, another condition that is very important to point out, which is that at least one employee in employment agencies must now be with high professional training. So far, it's been a case of being a working person with medium professional training. One more thing I would like to add, a permit for these agencies to be issued by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, is issued for a period of five years, instead of for the past three years, and the supervision of these agencies is carried out, also by the Government, or the Resort Ministry, which may be previous and subsequent. Why is it important that these agencies develop? Because they exist all over the developed world. Because this encourages both competition and such a public National Employment Service and because people are employed in these employment agencies and thus encourage the strengthening of businesses. In addition, the public interest is protected, because we have had some negative experiences, and thus by what I have cited, the elimination factors and the supervision that are being carried out. For the first time, the Director of the National Employment Service, therefore, a person appointed by the Government, can be appointed for a period of four years and cannot be appointed for more than twice. He must have nine years of work experience, he must have high professional training and what is a newspaper, previous experience in the field of employment. Director of the National Employment Service, so to speak, the Republic, appoints the directors of branches established in the entire territory of the Republic. The county employment service already exists, but its powers are now being extended. The Director of the Regional Employment Service shall appoint the Management Board of the National Employment Service on a proposal from the competent authority of territorial autonomy. I think there's a lot of talk about active employment measures, I'd say this whole concept of law is all about the obligation of action and activity. First, the state is obliged to adopt a national employment action plan, i.e. the government, or a resolution ministry. Also, the province, i.e. local self-government, is an optional option whether it will establish its own employment advice, regional, or local or even more municipalities of several local councils, but to participate in co-financing of programmes and measures set out in the Republic's 50% action plan must also have advice and action plans. So that's where the activity and local self-government and the province are encouraged. In addition, the National Service is encouraged by the activity itself by gaining competition, by the fact that there is an agreement concluded between its director and the competent minister and on the basis of which it is assessed, the implementation of planned programmes and measures for that year is assessed, in practice, to assess its work. Of course, the most important thing is that the unemployed person and the job-seeking person are in some way encouraged by the action, because the unemployed person has the right to participate in the individual employment plan and also has an obligation to participate in the individual employment plan. The National Employment Action Plan is the most important planning instrument, as my colleague Petronijevic said, it sets out priorities and objectives of employment policy, it sets out financial frameworks, funding sources and each year determines the category of more difficult persons employed, and also sets out programmes and active employment policies for the year. It shall be concluded by 31 July of the following year at the latest and it shall be the one which shall practically define an allocation of budgetary resources intended for employment policy. It is very important that this law also allows for the possibility of positive discrimination between unemployed persons in the most difficult position on the labour market. As I have already said, every year the action plan makes it harder for employable persons to determine what is very important to me, especially respecting territory. It is a very important and even regional development and, in essence, the local interest of each environment. I wouldn't talk about the duties of the unemployed and these other things, which minors are identical. The paper, for example, is the right of the employer, and has the possibility and does not have to report the need to hire the national employment service, so that it can actively participate in the programmes of implementing active employment measures. His duties have been the same as before. I said, about what an active employment policy is and what an agreement on the impact of the National Service, the Ministry – is the basis for assessing the implementation of an active employment policy by the National Service. The active employment policy measures are employment mediation, professional orientation and career planning advice, employment subsidies given to employers to support employment, additional education and training, which also includes newspapers, which is to introduce annual plans for additional education and training and that, public works. In order not to further discuss this, in the absence of a lack of time, I can say that, in all these measures that we have already mentioned, we are also carrying out public works and supporting employers for employment and, of course, there is a principle of positive discrimination. In terms of cash compensation, about 10% of people, I think the financial effects of 1.550 billion dinars from the budget will essentially be in favour of the beneficiary's cash compensation, because they will be in a privileged position relative to the other persons. (President: National MPs, time used for an authorised representative, of 20 minutes. I will continue in the time we have left. Anyway, we'll vote to pass this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17480	The right to reply was sought by two MPs: Milisav Petronijevic, a replica to the presentation of Minister Verica Kalanovic and MP Jovan Palalic, a replica to the presentation of the authorised representative of the G17 Group of MPs plus Sedlar-Kenig. The word is Mr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17481	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to the MPs present, I didn't think of a replica now, I answered immediately, but apparently this technique is not my strong suit. There is only one reason why I answered, as it is called, the replica of Ms. Minister's statement – that we do not get it wrong. I'm afraid in response, Madam Minister, I'm misunderstood. I didn't insist on a billion-and-a-half going into the budget, because that's what the answer says. After all, it says here that it will go to empowering active labour market programs. So it's not my idea – where the money will go, but I insist on who the money is taken from, so not who it's given to, but who it's taken from. Based on the savings of a billion and a half, there are reduced fees. My insistence is, let's still talk about it, see if it has to? Is it good that those who will receive 80% of the minimum instead of the minimum -- they finance that billion and a half. So I repeat my idea is not whether it's going to go to the budget, but where it's going to come from – I mean, it's not good. We believe that there is a need to maintain the level of existing protection of the unemployed, precisely in the context of the economic crisis. After all, the government's policy is to protect the most vulnerable. Simply, we insist only on continuing the talks on this - are there any options to remain the solutions that have been so far? When I spoke of other opportunities that arise, these days they are present, I spoke in the sense that there are other places where it can be taken, in order to speed up active employment policy. So, I just wanted to be clear. It wasn't my idea where he was going, it was who he was taking it from! And so again, we simply call, for further discussion, for discussion, because our goal is for both of us to come to the best solutions – to maintain the level of existing protection of these people in the very conditions of economic crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17482	The word has a folk MP, Jovan Palalic, and a right to a three-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17483	I still think – proposing that employment agencies can be set up is a completely excess matter. I'll try to support that by quoting members of the law. Article 6 states: 'Agreements of employment, within the meaning of this law, are: 1. notification of opportunities and conditions for employment; 2. mediation in employment in the country and abroad; 3. professional orientation and consultation on career planning; 4. implementation of active employment policy measures; 5. issue of permits for the work of a foreigner and a stateless person, in accordance with the law. It goes on to say – employment is carried out by the National Employment Service. And in Article 20, it is said that the Employment Agency is doing employment, and that is: ''1. Communication on the opportunities and conditions of employment; 2. intervenes in employment in the country and abroad; 3. professional orientations and career planning consultations; 4. implementation of certain active employment policies, based on the Treaty with the National Service. '' So there is one difference – agencies cannot issue permits for the work of a stranger and a person without citizenship. Hence, there are absolutely identical powers and jobs! It is absolutely unnecessary to set up agencies, in a situation where savings are being talked about, when it is said that the National Service should be in an even closer relationship, based on these legal solutions, implementing an active employment policy. If the question is – where will this billion and a half dinar go, which we will cut down on our citizens who are over 25 years old and who are out of work – will now go to people who will conclude contracts with the National Service and do jobs for which we are paying the National Employment Service at the same time, to deal with and implement active employment policy measures. That's the problem with this law. On the one hand, we take money from our citizens, and on the other hand, we focus that money on jobs that both the state authorities have to do at the same time. So absolutely unnecessary! Let all these jobs be done by the National Employment Service, paid, supported by the Ministry, is now part of the Ministry, responsible for these jobs for which it was paid, not giving space to other people to take money. So tomorrow, the minister who sets up the agency, who sets up the board of directors, controls and controls his work, gives jobs to the agency – I am not responsible for having no movement in employment, is responsible for some director of the National Service, some board of directors, so it is responsible for some person who founded the agency, I have nothing to do with it. Therefore, responsibility must be personalised if already so, if such a concept is provided for in this law, which is bad, for the National Employment Service to be part of the Ministry, then let it be responsible for these tasks and not for leaving jobs to others and redistributing budgets to be paid again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17484	The right to reply has the power of representative of the G17 Group of MPs plus Sedlar-Kenig Snowžana and it is the closing of the circle on clarifications and wrong interpretations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17485	To speak again to my esteemed colleague Palalic, whom I truly greatly appreciate, to say that they do not do the same work at all, the Agency and the National Employment Service. First of all, the National Employment Service only carries out unemployment insurance, all the rights that come out of that right, let me say, unemployment insurance, payment of cash compensation and other rights, as well as keeping records in the field of work, that doesn't work at all by the Employment Agency. Secondly, there are absolutely precise rights and obligations of the National Employment Service and it is a budgetary institution, and the Agency is not. Why would the government, the Ministry and the National Employment Service be responsible for the work of private agencies, but competitiveness is increasing. I believe that this will contribute to a more professional, more efficient and effective work of the National Employment Service, which you will admit has so far had a monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17486	The word of the People's Messenger is John Palalic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17487	I was just quoting the provisions of the bill that confirm this. I didn't say these other jobs were done by agencies, I was talking about jobs. – The employment activities carried out by the National Service are: ''1. notification of opportunities and conditions for employment. '' - Agency jobs: ''1. notification of opportunities and conditions of employment. ''' – The employment jobs carried out by the National Service are ''3. professional orientation advice on career planning. ''' - Agency jobs: ''3. professional orientations and career planning counselling. '"So, absolutely identical jobs of employment. I didn't talk about job insurance in case of unemployment, exercise of rights, these are jobs done by the National Service, they don't work by agencies, but these employment jobs work equally by the National Service and the Employment Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17488	By exchanging these replicas we end the morning work and continue the afternoon at 15.05 p.m. The first in line is MP Nikola Krpic, authorised representative of the PUPS parliamentary group, and reports were made by Parliament MP Marina Ragus and MP Meho Omerovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17489	We'll continue our work in the afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the word has a folk MP, Dr Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17490	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected Mrs Kalanovic, not long ago, was marked December 3rd, International Day of Persons with Disabilities, Day of Fight for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. People with all rights have been brought into a situation that impels them to function due to spatial, economic and social obstacles, which these persons cannot overcome in the way that other citizens do. This is the European Union definition of disability. To remind ourselves, disability is not a disease but a condition that is the product of a particular disease or injury. People with disabilities are just as healthy and normal as people without it. The help they need is not pity, but the removal of various prejudices and strict respect for the law on preventing discrimination in the employment of disabled persons, as well as other persons, and we brought here a few days ago in the Serbian Parliament the Declaration on the Prevention of Discrimination. This would be, as you know, when an unemployed person seeks employment if the employer puts him in an unfavourable position because of marital status, gender, language, skin color, race, health status, pregnancy, age, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, family obligations, political or other convictions, property, membership in political organisations or disability. Will we be able to control or eliminate such behavior through the inspection and other control bodies? In addition to several procedural and technical amendments to these bill proposals, in order to improve the quality of the job-seeking solutions in both employment laws, the MPs of the United Pensions Party of Serbia will support the adoption of a draft law on job-seeking persons, the same applies to healthy and disabled persons. PUPS lawmakers believe the upcoming economic crisis will bring this category into an even more difficult economic position and their status. For these reasons, and taking into account the above facts, as well as the employment of persons, both healthy and disabled, is one of our country's priorities. As you have so far pointed out, Madam Minister, it would be extremely useful to find other opportunities and different incentive measures for these persons to be employed as soon as possible. Mrs Kalanovic and fellow MPs, in the hope that you will understand the new problems of people with disabilities, that they live with us and not with us, and that you will invest your credibility, each in their own way, so that these problems will be solved primarily in the interests of disabled persons, the PUPS Group will vote in the day of voting for this draft law on the employment of disabled persons, as well as these others. Members of the United Pensioners Party believe that our common goal is to improve the quality of these people's lives, that it is life and concern all of us. So I ask you, dear fellow Members of Parliament, both from the opposition and from the ruling majority, that in the day of voting, we give our contribution to all the unemployed and this law. I do not suggest that this is easy, but we allow these people with different qualifications and different abilities, with the aim of creating a democratic society where we should all work and where the goal is unique – work, work and work. It brings spiritual and mental wealth, affirmation of human values, not restriction or disabling. We need to give them incentive measures, some training, training, and other measures, and each of them will accept it, even volunteer. I say, volunteer, employers will gladly accept them as they are, to be equal members of the community. This is not easy to achieve, it takes a lot of effort and for the employment of healthy people is exactly the same case and the exact same goal, but from that goal the Members of the United Pensioners will not give up. Here should be a sign of equality between healthy people who are able to seek work with the National Employment Service and persons with disabilities. With the proposed laws and amendments, we are aware that this equality, except on paper, is not achieved simply, quickly or easily. I thank you, Mrs Kalanovic, personally to you and to your supporters who support and seek solutions to these two laws. MPs of the PUPS Group will support these two laws and will vote on these laws in the voting day. The proposals of these two laws are certainly good, but it will be even better if everyone respects it, if we apply it and use it for those to whom it is intended. There's something else I want to say. Society is as democratic as it takes care of people with disabilities and takes care of all its citizens and those looking for a job, it should be given. Each newly employed individual will now achieve their economic status and better family status through work and will find the meaning of his life and existence. Now they will think about establishing a marriage community, no longer supported face by parents, relatives and others, these are already mature people who need to show, prove, apply knowledge acquired in school, college and other places. I can freely show my talent, knowledge and other abilities for the general good of the community in which they live. Only through work, if they find an employer, is it possible for every working person to contribute only then to the society in which he lives and will exercise the basic human, civil and constitutional right to work and equality with others. The psychological sense of satisfaction, of self-worth, of need, of desire and others, as well as of motivation is considerable, and imagine the position and feeling of these people when there is no work, when there is no hope, when they fall into despair. Thousands of people are left out of work in their misery and suspense. That's why this law is too much. Employment and employment of young, educated and professional people are also improving mental relations in the family, which are now happier, more psychologically and physically sustainable. Their quality of life has been improved, as well as their impact on the change of family attitude towards the political system, according to society in general. The family is now becoming happier, more economically stable, more satisfying. They say the family is the basic cell of society. What will that family look like if one or more people in that family are looking for a job or are left without a job today because of the economic and world situation? What do you do now, give priority to those who are jobless or young and volunteering? Do you respect the law? The PUPS is to establish order in this area and accept these two laws and will vote for both after the amendments have been submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17491	Thank you, Mr. Snack. I give my word to Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17492	I will speak on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, in principle, on a law that regulates employment and unemployment insurance issues, and counterpart Ljilja Miladanovic will discuss the next law. I'll start with one basic question which, by the way, I'm starting a debate about every law, which is, what does it show us to be the effects of this law, and what is it that was meant to achieve? To interest listeners in what I'm going to talk about, I'm going to start by 24, by reason of the law itself, where it is said that the aim of adopting a law that should regulate the issues of the unemployed in case they don't work, improving the quality of planning and implementing an active employment policy through the institutionalisation of the national action plan, etc., where paragraph 3 states that savings from at least one billion and five hundred million dinars per year for commitments on the basis of a monetary unemployment fee. The same effect that plans to save from a billion and 500 million in the next part on the same side of the argument, which is likely to be influenced by the solutions in the law, explains: for the category of unemployed users, the cash benefits that make up less than 10% of the registered unemployed, this is a slight reduction in the financial parameters of the fee, and will be compensated by a more prominent, privileged approach to active employment measures, the introduction of a special incentive for finding jobs before the expiry of the right to cash compensation, as well as by reducing and removing delays in the cost of compensation, which will provide them with stability and timeliness of income during the duration of unemployment. As someone in his family who had the opportunity to have jobless workers on the labour market, I had the "satisfaction" to feel all the active employment policy, and all the delays in compensation payments, and all the help the state offers to the unemployed. I ask the basic question that gives me the right of those who have felt the measures of this service under such management, as well as of someone who is able to publicly ask instead of many here – whether this law separates two basic categories of those who are kept unemployed, those who happen to find themselves temporarily unemployed, whose society, or the state, helps them by giving them a certain fee for this and those who have decided not to work? Is this law separateing those whom no physical deficiency, age or any other objective restriction treats the unemployed, from those who are not at all comfortable receiving'social compensation' for that temporary unemployment that should enable them to survive and who should not be ashamed, because it gives them no civil servant from their private pocket but society provides compensation for it and that feeling that they feel guilty or uncomfortable about what the state does to them, I ask – is such solutions compensated? And it gives me an answer – no, it's not. The basic solution to this law is to reduce the time in which the compensation is received and to reduce the amount of that compensation. I will immediately say that we as a society have to compare our economic strength and the fees we pay to the unemployed and I can't say I need to tell those who want to work, and for that they are not given the opportunity, or they are not offered enough jobs, to give everything, and that they are sitting and waiting, not taking any steps to find a job. No, neither should we, nor do we have the economic power to do that. I am responsibly saying that the solutions given in this law had no intention of finding the right measure to help a country that is in this situation, those who are currently out of business. Why am I saying that? Because the National Employment Service is a way of party management to a public institution, down to the level of branches. And that I'm right when I say that, says the way they're being set up, named, elected, and operated by branches for the unemployed. I was lucky, and I'm lucky, still, that some of my people and I are close enough to be in those establishments. Let's talk about it that way. Today, the unemployed people are at their disposal, in large numbers, and I say to a large number, because your government officials, I say to you, because you set them up, match them, and the numbers are given to you in a way that shows how well this service works. They say there are 77,000 unemployed, and only 400,000 of them would work. This is a statement by Mr. Vladimir Ilic, that we have two million employees regularly and according to his claim since 2003, the number has not increased. That we have 2,700,000 really employees, because those 0.7 million helping members who are doing something in agriculture. Is this number real? How much is he worth? By what methodology and by what criteria? I don't know that. Even with this law you want to make a new, real record, which, I'm afraid, like any other law so far, will just show a better picture, otherwise not such a good reality. The reality is that there are a large number of people in the unemployed market who have skills and skills that are not appreciated today, that they have too many years for what is in this modern age defined as a desirable limit, that they are over 30 years old, that a good part of them has college degrees, but also knowledge that is not appreciated today, because one who knows a lot and who is willing to ask questions to his employer is not a desirable workforce. It is desirable to have the knowledge of a foreign language, to know the work on a computer, to have under 30 years and to be less asked and to be, what they say, a good soldier, without any creativity to respond to the employer's request. Those are wanted, and those I'm talking about, and that's a large number of people who are out of work when four large banks have been liquidated, when a large number of former SDK employees, so the National Banks are out of work, there are people in the IRS who have lost their jobs and many of those who are still in court today due to unlawfully getting fired. There are also young people who graduate with an extremely high average, I say, personal experience gives me the right to claim, because my older daughter is on average 9, 8 long received this late unemployment fee. As much as the knowledge and experience of those who come looking for a job and how different the degree of knowledge and communication of those who welcome them is appreciated, anyone who listens to me will have something to say in favour of it, because G17, as a party holding this organization, has taken advantage of this in depth, this is only a paradigm, not an exceptional case, to hire its staff and to have a party infrastructure through the National Employment Service system to the branch, so that party personnel are in charge. The more people they have under them, the more well-educated and creative they are, the more they are, and the one who will actually do work in many public institutions and businesses usually engage in temporary employment contracts, occasional jobs, those who really know how to do something, who will be paid in the least possible way, and maybe there's some exception that confirms the rule I'm talking about. Unfortunately, by accepting the most negative experiences in the environment, we have allowed money to be compensated for working in production, above all, is the right motive for some achievements, for getting a job, but in this society we have raised it to a level of unmeasured greed, in which young people who finish colleges and put themselves in line in front of this labour market wonder why they were educated, if their work and their diplomas are not appreciated? If you tell me you're going to make this right and this law has just that urge, I'll tell you - I doubt it. Because two, three days ago, we discussed a law on the Development and Elimination Fund, i.e. the acquisition of the Guarantee Fund, where the official explanation was – we bring together two institutions into one because they are doing a similar job and our motive is saving us. And what it looks like to save if there are 34 people working in the Guarantee Fund and 50 people working in the Development Fund. The Development Fund credits most of the Serbian economy, fully free of charge for the government, performs all the work by subsidies that Mr Dinkic has been calling and calling on foreign investors for years, and then sues them when they don't invest, as "Lema" in Vranje, as countlessly, I won't now spend time on it, there will be opportunities, you will submit a report, so the Development Fund for free of charge for service for subsidies that you assign to regulations in place of a law that will prescribe criteria, and this development fund should now receive 34 people to whom traffic in the Guarantee Fund has shown that only payments have been paid and that the Fund for Development will fall 2.2 billion dinars of guarantees, guarantees that fall on the burden because they are given to wrong or poorly measured clients. Since the budget so far has been the place where these guarantees have been charged, which fall on the burden, and that you do not report to these citizens and this country that you now have 34 employees, young people mostly, I hear from some banking academy, that they do not know how to do work, and we also know whose party books have, without balance, without a list of funds, without a report on failure, which these 2.2 billion guarantees will fall on the burden, you are putting us in a position that what is the potential of the Fund, which should be invested in the economy for the opening of some new jobs or for maintaining existing jobs, will be focused on covering the unsuccessful moves made in the Guarantee Fund. That's not what the bill says. Normally, anyone who has a favourable position to benefit from develops the mechanisms of its defence, hires theorists, journalists, ministers and all others to defend his good position, but it is indefensible for you to do something about these legal solutions for the benefit of the unemployed. The way you try to solve the problem or introduce it to the citizens is simply unsustainable at this economic moment. When I say - unsustainable, I mean that the growth that shows an economy is primarily not measured by growth, as you call it percentages or some absolute amounts, so current prices, so there's inflation, so there's no, but in the number of new people. Since 2003, he has not been changed, according to your officials' statements, and how much someone, not by the statistics you represent, but by his wallet, has been aware that he has a better standard of living or that there is a growth that is called – the development of a country and the development of an economy led by a good and responsible government. You are unable to provide such evidence, and when you are given evidence, material evidence, such as yesterday's European Times magazine, about where it was intended to be spent and where the state money is spent, you think citizens can swallow everything. I simply ask you that when you come to this Parliament the second time, you do not leave us on the burden of explaining the effects of these laws in a way that I read in two attitudes that the 1.5 billion savings are a slight reduction in the compensation parameters, because this people are ready to accept the right reasoning and truth. Indeed, it is not right to underestimate the seriousness of the moment we are in, because cyclical movements of the economy and in the richly developed countries are the things that are happening. One America does not escape that growth in unemployment is something it faces at a certain point. That's not the time for us. This is the situation for us from 2000 to today – the growth of debt from $10 billion to 30, and without any new job. What you're saying is that on the labour market, there's gonna be some people who want to change their jobs, some who are looking for it and some who are different categories, students up to 26 or pensioners, you know what they're talking about? That you have the legal solutions that you have, which will be one of the first parliamentary issues, because citizens are asking for it, leave the possibility that even in public enterprises, in those that are funded by the state, there are people who work on certain occasional work mechanisms, while receiving pensions at the same time. Do you know how many people object because their children don't work and pensioners do? We have to sanction such cases, or exclude them, because we are not a society that has power and is allowed to afford it. If all this responsibility that we're talking about today produced the construction of some infrastructure or conditions that my children or my grandchildren or many of them will enjoy, so let's say, they'll enjoy something, so let them pay back the debts that we leave them with today, that would be logical, and that's reasonable. But we're facing it today that we don't know where the privatisation revenues are, we don't have the researched and displayed effects of credit investments, and we're standing on the same number of employees and today. I really think the story of employees should be about a new story about economic policy. And when you present to us an economic policy that will create conditions for productive jobs in production, we may be able to discuss the support of your law. At the moment, the Serbian Progressive Party and the Forward Parliamentary Club, Serbia cannot support that law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17493	Thank you. Mrs. Tabakovic. Madam Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17494	Mrs. Tabakovic, I have listened to you with attention and I can answer every line of yours with arguments, but your sentences affect so many topics and with such insufficient data being manipulated in different directions, that at this point I want to give you an answer only in a few. Your thesis that the National Service and the G17 plus use state institutions for their party purposes is malicious and extended many years ago. I want to ask you -- where do the sons and fathers of your party bosses work, are these perhaps institutions headed by the representatives proposed by G17 plus? Never, and in letters, ever G17 plus made a difference between people who were party-defined, but between capable and incompetent. The head and delegated posts include people who are proposed for their abilities at those places at the National Employment Service, as well. The information Mr. Ilic gave you is accurate. These are data collected through the Republic Bureau of Statistics, via surveyors, through various other channels and which are absolutely verifiable and publicly available. These are the data we don't run away from, the 720 thousand that you mention and which differ from the ones I'm presenting today are the data measured in 31.12.2008. I gave you the data that was measured at the end of March 2009 and which, unfortunately, show an increase in the number of unemployed. But the data you're talking about, that 400,000 people would be asking if you'd be working with "yes," and the rest are responding with "no" is what we're talking about, about the unemployment rate measured by the labour force poll. So there are precisely established methodologies how data is obtained which at this point does not receive from their work and who is ready to work at any time. What is it that you want in this law to deny? You want to deny the desire to launch an active role and an active government policy, a competent ministry, a National Employment Service, a rural employment service, a local community of the province, an active role in the design of employment and employment measures in this country. If you asked if there are two groups of people, there are two groups of people – those who want to actively seek a job and those who do not want to actively seek a job. Unfortunately, there are a number of people and those who receive the compensation you're talking about and have received stimulating severances. Let's open those topics too. However, the fact is that Serbia is in trouble, that there are a large number of unemployed and that the government and the competent ministry and the National Employment Service must find all methods to hire these people. The role of the national employment action plan and individual employment plans is one piece of information, where I am deeply shaken by the fact that two young doctors in Kragujevac cannot find a job, asked the National Employment Service whether there is a competition in Serbia's territory for the employment of doctors, 57 general practice competitions opened in Serbia. An individual action plan would mean helping the National Employment Service and directing them in that direction. On the other hand, an individual action plan would help them if they wanted to requalify themselves with medium professional training to those who wanted to find employment for some of their reasons, for possible reasons that they would open a private clinic with some of their people tomorrow. Individual action plans of individuals and the National Employment Service are now serving to find the best ways and methodology for hiring people who want to work. You were talking about a huge number of people with a high average looking for a job. I'll give you the data, 9% of the college graduates are waiting for work. Is that a lot? Of course it's a lot. But it's not true that most people who have completed colleges are sitting in the National Service, because 91% of those who unfortunately don't have colleges. Let me answer one more question that you didn't ask. Employment agencies which are legal persons, which are neither on the burden of the state nor receive any compensation from the state, employ a large number of people who have the knowledge and skills you talk about and most easily employ people with colleges and are most easily employed in Belgrade because Belgrade provides the best chances. But if you are well-intentioned, if you read the law carefully, you will see that active employment measures and active policies give hope that there will be fewer unemployed in Serbia in the coming period. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17495	Thank you. Mrs Tabakovic estimates that she is not well understood, although you do not have the right to replicate the minister. You have no right. The lawyers who have a lot, who sit in the presidency, have taught me that you can replicate the MP, so you can go through a parliamentary question or some other form. Thank you. The word is received by the MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17496	Mrs. Djukic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 113. The order of the session to be followed first applies to communication and verbal order. It's about the MPs, all right. But when someone comes to your house, Minister, he must first of all respect the order of communication and, in that sense, I ask you to give me the right to a replica. It concerns a member of the 113rd Order who must be respected by all, and that is not to be interpreted in a way that is not true. Please use your discretionary right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17497	Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17498	Mrs. Kalanovic, you are not my Serbian teacher, that was Duška Dancetovic, whom I am proud of. Your ability to monitor my exposure is your business, but also your way of saying that someone should be happy that they are working somewhere, and you did not forbid it, it says enough in support of the government's mandate, the restriction of mandate and the exchange of power says that G17 has been in power too long. On the arguments that I have made some prices for those who listen to both me and you, and my well-meaning is well-meaning towards the citizens, and to you I am responsible for the opposition that only serves the facts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17499	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric. I'm just asking you to re-apply to give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I haven't been able to present the most important reason for my opinion to end, I'm using this time to finish this discussion. Time for opposition MPs, I think, sometimes double as fast as a positional one, of course, it's just a joke. By the way, let me take advantage of, since I am an MP from Vojvodina, to tell Mrs. President that she has a greeting from Banat and has been asked to tolerate our MPs from Vojvodina with our little slower accent, so she can give us a little more time. The passing time of the ambassadors of Vojvodina is a little slower, we will practice with Lal, whom I mentioned earlier. I stopped by saying that the latest, unfortunately, Serbian brand has become just promoting folk cuisine, taking statements in the prime time of the journal from the users of the folk cuisine and the blessings they bring. Unfortunately, folk cuisine has become very productive economic operators. It went one step further, in the 21st century we also open shops for the poor. Like a number of colorful lies and this one, the buyers say, is one of them, because that's where you buy the same for money, for money. Only those who come here don't know where to make it. Only those who have it come, whether saved or still in some humble incomes. Every day there are more and more cancellations, new investors, investment is weak in sight. Those 1,000 euros of free stock are nowhere to be found. I think the citizens realized that free cheese was only left in the mouse. The employment law, as it is, should create, I'm afraid, another illusion of "Eldorada" which is about to take place in Serbia. Where do we get the right not to believe it, we ask ourselves. Perhaps because more and more of those who are cut off from electricity, those who are sent daily by other incasants and those who are increasingly and more often sending letters to the congregation, seeking help for some basic needs, most often for the treatment of their loved ones. It is not surprising, then, that the government is running a very specific campaign against Parliament, using all the available media, it points out at every step that Parliament is too smooth and costs a lot. The best Parliament is, in fact, the one that only has a picture and has no tone. Perhaps it would be good if we could also silence the voice of the people, who are still heard only in this place and through this Parliament, because we are still chosen by this people, in some way, to silence them, and to keep their ears shut, because they would not then hear about those big salaries in public enterprises, which, even after so much reduction, are at such a level as to cost as the mediocre parliamentary club in this same parliament. Government and beyond, only the government. If the people continue to ask questions, and do not perform their basic role – to vote, they could experience a 'Ibiian' fate, and be offered to be replaced for a better, more obedient or more durable people, or be replaced by a ministry for a half-minor. I'd like to see that tender, too. I wonder which ministry he'd be in. I think that we have slowly and surely started to get one party Serbia again with seemingly unnecessary institutions, at least those with an adjective "national" in their name. This government has managed to create another unseen miracle, just as Andric has managed to create an apparent reality, we have managed to see here in the act of apparent democracy and it resembles the collapse of ancient Greek statehood. Everything looks like the state, but there's no one to believe it. The law on employment and insurance in case of unemployment is, in fact, necessary and necessary, but completed and adapted to the real possibilities of Serbia. In this law, impossible categories or concepts fall within an impossible or at least hypocritical category are operated. We are in favour of affirmation of work and making work in Serbia finally worthwhile. The current trend in government measures, which will be implemented by this law, will especially affect one new category of population and qualify for a new name for further discussion, which is 'work written' for the population. What's the euphemism about harder employment categories? They're the ones who get fired every day, whose age is between 40 and 60 years of life, with 20 and over years of work experience, which no one will ever hire again. No matter how active they are, the minimum number of them, the greater years of life, will be able to acquire a new job or new employment. I have to tell you that these people are quite exhausted, mostly emotionally and working, and it's very difficult for them to start from scratch and it's very difficult to start from some requalifications, which are necessary, and for society very expensive, because requalifications require, above all, that the Ministry of Education be consulted and that some things are done on longer paths, with more objective and more accurate planning. Such retraining of the working population is not possible without serious involvement of the Ministry of Education. This requires teamwork within the government, within different political options, and at least at first sight it seems impossible. What is in the law on employment and insurance in the case of unemployment of newspapers is certainly an active employment policy and a national action plan. Many things have been left for individual creativity and individual activity. There are several members here who will challenge the enforceability of this law, which objective circumstances will challenge. First, a member of 59th who talks about funding an active employment policy, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we know should be realistically filled with Serbia's economy, and the economy this mutilated, this privatised, this impoverished, hardly able to bear itself, it announces to us constantly new and new layoffs for savings. The funds of territorial autonomy and local self-government units are also insufficient and we know what problems they are convulsing and that they cannot finance even basic activities at the moment they are serving citizens. All transfer funds to them either late or not coming at all. Point 4) contributes to the case of unemployment, which will also suffer all other restrictions on society. Points 3 and 5) of this Article refer to gifts, donations, legates, loans, interest and other funds in accordance with the law and other sources in accordance with the law. It's something discussionable, which is known in the Woodland called "can be done, doesn't have to mean". Article 67, which speaks of those unemployed who have the right to cash compensation, is, in my opinion, particularly problematic at point 3) which says they will be entitled to cash compensation by all of them, at the end of the function of the elected, appointed and appointed persons, unless they have obtained the right to remain in a working relationship or to a subsequent salary, in accordance with the law. The appointed, elected and appointed persons are people from the world of politics and it must be clear to the citizens. I don't think it's fair, because so far it hasn't been a practice in many cases, that all of us in politics are using these means which, at this point, in these restrictive measures, should be left behind, first of all, to citizens who are in this difficult situation without any guilt. What I think it is implementing from Article 67(3) is a hint that nearly 5,000 different party officials, employed by various public enterprises, institutions, institutions or state bodies, could be left without a job by the force of these new restrictions, and still be overcome. I think anyone who has entered politics, who has entered first of all with one serious biography, work, life and personal and has recommended to the citizens to deal with their problems, so, first of all, for example, for further policy-making, he would have to solve his problem first, first of all, the workers. I expect these people to have these types of qualifications, because they're already like party experts working on that basis somewhere. - It's not good for a politician's profession to get on this kind of attraction. Article 69 says that the special amount of compensation will be problematic due to lack of funds, although this law reduces, but the number of users and the number of those who receive the right is increasing dramatically. We witness this every day, no matter how much euphemism we use for what happens, no matter how many we try to name these categories differently, the fact is that Serbia is entering serious dubiosis, economic, economic and other. So it is not the solution to even keeping this parliament quiet. People still live outside this House and know what's holding them back. The law should deal with work and employment. These two laws, in any case, deserve at least one full session of dealing with this most significant issue of Serbia at the moment. If Serbia does not work, if everyone solves only the problem of its basic existence in Serbia, Serbia will have a serious fear. In serious fear, it is decided by the lowest basic instincts and emotions. I don't think we'll be able to define ourselves as a rational policy then. Differently, the vision and the view of the citizens who are fighting for the naked existence turn away. We can't be the cause of despair. We have to offer solutions to get out of the crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17501	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17502	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today there are two, I would say, very important but very specific laws. Unlike some of my predecessors, I think it's good, regardless of what we are in times of crisis, that these two laws are on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament. People with disabilities in our country have been facing each other for decades, unfortunately, sometimes with openness and sometimes hidden discrimination. Of the 10% of the total population of the Serbian state, therefore, 750,000 of them, they make up the largest minority in the state of Serbia. These people were the so-called so-called. Invisible citizens, second-class citizens, often hidden from sight, forced to stay in their home or institution, all because of prejudice, shame, and sometimes fear. So 70% of them live in poverty, and 52% do not participate in the social life of the local community, over 50% of people with disabilities have only primary education or have not attended school, and those who do so in special schools, unfortunately, and opportunities to socialise, for example, with children with and without disabilities, are very limited. From the so-called special schools children with disabilities go to homes or institutions from which they rarely get out because of the inaccessibility of streets, workplaces and public facilities. So these were naked data and facts about people with disabilities. Before I point out the importance of the law that we are discussing today, I would like to remind you that the state of Serbia is the first in the region of Southeast Europe to adopt the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities to improve access to services, both commercial, residential and public buildings. Why this law is important. What's new about this law that we're discussing today? We must bear in mind the fact that a decision has been made in the Republic of Serbia not only on EU accession, but also on the process of our accession and harmonisation of all our regulations with standards and so on. European legislation must stress that laws are under way and are being drawn up in terms of persons with disabilities, using basic solutions and directives, resolutions and recommendations by the EU and the Council of Europe, as well as action plans of persons with disabilities, which my previous speaker, a respected colleague, Snezana Sedlar, spoke of. The law-making obligation governing this area of employment and professional rehabilitation is conditioned by another international act. Namely, it is the Convention of International Labour Organization No. 159 on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons, which, I will remind you, has ratified our country in 2000. Persons with disabilities must have the same rights as all citizens, and must have the same opportunities to achieve those rights. The unemployment rate of people with disabilities is extremely low, at 13%, and will say that only 21,000 people with disabilities are present in Serbia's employment relationship. The reason for the adoption of this law is the fact that the existing legislation in this area, i.e. the Labour Training and Employment Act, only regulates the employment of persons with disabilities under special conditions of work in so-called ‘. Protective workshops. These laws would ensure full redefining of the relationship between persons with disabilities as potential employees and working environments, i.e. employers. Future employment of persons with disabilities should be based on economic motives, i.e. that unemployed persons with disabilities are treated equally with all other candidates within groups of those seeking employment. The principles of this law prohibit any kind of discrimination against persons with disabilities, with respect for human rights and dignity, by encouraging involvement in all spheres and processes of social life, equality in the exercise of rights and obligations, and increasing employment and creating appropriate jobs and working conditions. The definition of persons with disabilities regulated by this law includes both medical and social access, considering disability as an individual problem, caused by illness, injury or other health damage. And, on the other hand, as a socially defined problem, which as a product of the social organization causes different barriers in the everyday life we face. Under this law, a person with disabilities can exercise the following rights: determining the status and assessment of work ability, encouraging employment of work and social inclusion and affirmation of equal opportunities in the labour market, the right to measures and activities of professional rehabilitation, employment under general conditions, employment under special conditions, active employment policies measures, employment of special organisational forms of employment and employment of persons with disabilities, other rights that promote the employment and social inclusion of persons with disabilities. Job skills assessments under this law will be conducted in the PIO Fund, while solutions will be made by an organisation responsible for employment activities. Persons with disabilities who are able to work will be able to, in accordance with this estimated working ability and jobs that can also perform personal affinities, and to further educate, i.e. through the process of professional orientation and rehabilitation, through training, training, training and other forms of activity. Under the terms of professional rehabilitation, which is under the title of this law, a programme of measures and activities to be carried out with the aim of enabling a person with disabilities to work properly – to get a job, to keep a job or progress in it, or to requalified for another relevant job. It also provides insight into the psychophysical and working abilities of persons with disabilities, interest, opportunities, employment and skills and endurance and skills, and points to preserved working skills, i.e. potentials that are important for the future professional activity of these persons. The participation of persons with disabilities in the professional rehabilitation process is part of the preparation of a person with disabilities to enter or return to the world of work. Hence, the bill promoter, in line with the active employment policy programmes, predicted that persons with disabilities also have the right to certain monetary incomes that are related to the recognition of the right to professional rehabilitation, in the case of labour empowerment, qualification and retraining, and other programmes for improving their working skills. The financial assistance shall relate to the costs of public transport for the person and its companion, if necessary, and to the monthly compensation for the duration of the professional rehabilitation of 20% of the minimum earnings, which is established in accordance with the labour regulations in the event that individual measures and activities are carried out for at least 100 hours. The obligation to hire persons with disabilities applies to all employers who employ at least 20 workers. An employer who has between 20 and 49 employees is obliged to establish a working relationship with one person with disabilities. The employer, who has more than 50 employees, is obliged to establish a working relationship with at least two people with disabilities, and so on each of the next 50 people with disabilities. The law also provides for different opportunities for the exemption from employment obligations, i.e. if the employer fails for any reason to fulfil the obligation of employment of persons with disabilities, he is required to pay the penalty, as popularly said, in the budget fund for professional rehabilitation at the level of triple the minimum wage, which has been established in accordance with the labour regulations, for each person with disabilities that he has not employed. This kind of obligation exists for every month in which there is no employee at all, or there is not enough number of persons with disabilities. The funds achieved in this way will be used for active employment policies for persons with disabilities or for the pursuit of rehabilitation operations. Therefore, they serve to encourage employment exclusively for persons with disabilities. Employers who exercise the right to earn earnings for those persons for 12 months at minimum earnings, which has been established by the labour regulations, to employ persons with disabilities without working experience. The law lays down fines which will be fined for infringements of the organisations responsible for employment activities, the company for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and all legal persons who carry out professional rehabilitation and who do not comply with the provisions of this law. Under this law, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, sanctioned and a very important fact is that even a newly established employer has no obligation to employ persons with disabilities for 24 months from the day of establishment of his firm. On the other hand, stimulating measures for the employment of these persons are also envisaged: the possibility of a refund of costs, job adjustments, a grant of earnings for employment for a certain period of time for persons with disabilities without working experience, a refund of the costs for compulsory social insurance and taxes and earnings falling under the employer's burden, and in accordance with the Law of Contribution to Mandatory Insurance. At the very end, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the proposed Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons, is it enough for us as MPs to bring only strategies and laws? It's not! Because she'll only be a dead letter on paper unless the relationship between us and these people changes. I'll only give you one example that best illustrates the gap, as popularly said, between normative and real. The rule on determining the bodily damage that has been in effect since 2003 has prescribed, now please listen carefully to the following – the person who does not have one hand, unfortunately, or one leg, is 80% disabled, and the person who has neither arm, nor other leg, is again a person with 80% disability. So someone in the administration, who writes regulations, protocols, regulations, all the other sublegal acts, added up twice 80 and got 80% again?- I'm sorry. No, my fellow MPs, people are numbers so we can apply some mathematical arches to them. I must point out this opportunity, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for persons with disabilities, thanks, above all, to the engagement of Mr Milovan Glojevac, president of the Co-ordination Committee of persons with disabilities after a year, we have managed to change this rule. Unless there are such joint efforts by all of us in society, and above all by the institutions and by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nothing will be worth much of our strategies and laws. Still, we have a big job ahead of us. It is necessary in the next period to amend 11 laws and amend and supplement 11 laws and sublegal acts relating to improving the rights and positions of persons with disabilities. This, of course, requires political will, and when it comes to persons with disabilities, I am convinced that such a will exists in the current Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the Second Law, therefore, of the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, I would only mention a few words. The basic reason for the adoption of this law lies in the fact that we adopted the National Employment Strategy in 2005 and that we adopted the National Employment Action Plan for 2006-2008. So on this occasion, I'll just point to some of the newspapers that are passed by the proposed law. The active employment policy measures have been defined flexiblely, the demarcation of planning and the establishment of active policy and its implementation, which were also discussed by government representatives, prominent Minister Verica Kalanovic and my previous speakers from G17 plus, the Socialist Party of Serbia and other representatives of the ruling coalition, a national employment action plan as a central instrument for planning an active employment policy, a system for monitoring the implementation of the measures of the active employment policy programme is being introduced, an agreement on the impact of the Ministry and the National Employment Service is being introduced, a special incentive for the province and local self-government. On the other hand, an individual employment plan for unemployed persons is being introduced, a new incentive for the activation of unemployed persons who are users of cash compensation is being abolished. The cash compensation is estimated at 50% of the average earnings received by the worker over the previous six months for three to 12 months, and, exceptionally, 24 months for those who are two years old until retirement. Dear colleagues, when it comes to this bill, therefore, to the draft law on employment and unemployment insurance, as regards this last thing I mentioned, which is the fee for unemployment and the length of unemployment benefits, I must admit, it is not a secret – the bill is more restrictive in this part of the law than the existing Employment Act. The government, in its explanation of the proposal, stated that the funds for passive measures account for more than 80% of the total resources available. Therefore, the aim of this proposal is, as the Government states, to place the focus on an active employment policy, to make work more cost-effective and to make it overwhelming, above all. In this respect, appropriate monitoring and control mechanisms shall also be introduced to conduct an active employment policy. These are, as noted and said in the provisions of the proposed law – the national employment action plan with budgetary planning, and the individual employment plan for each employee, an act of impact, which determines the minister in charge of employment, I mean the impact of the National Employment Service, and assesses the implementation of the Employment Action Plan by the National Employment Service. It is certainly good that, as the basis of each successful and efficient work, individual and national plans, as well as the control reports, are being set up. And certainly, it's not a good thing the unemployed will have a lower fee. Unfortunately, I think the hour of our direct face-to-face with reality, with the fact that we cannot escape and which we cannot and will not hide from the citizens of Serbia – that the money is not enough, that Serbia has been affected by the crisis, that without the development of economy, agriculture, production and all kinds of services cannot be achieved and created a socially desirable environment! For economic recovery, ladies and gentlemen, as a prerequisite, we need stable political opportunities, above all, and good laws, which are the first and necessary conditions for attracting foreign investment, improving regional economic co-operation and progress in the process of European integration, for access to European funds. But in addition to these foreign investments, I personally think that all of us within what we can do with good, planning, organization of work, and create, by hiring the entire creative, creative and humane potential. We, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, have many capable, responsible and hardworking people who know how to work. Let us put aside political, or party membership. There are many smart people and smarter than us who are here in this House, who are not politically engaged, but are full of knowledge and creative potential. Let us take a chance on both the team and all the other smart people and their critical opinion, after all, to give the economy, the economy of our country, to give Serbia a chance – I think I don't have another chance! I thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17503	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. Of the registered representatives, the president of the parliamentary groups has not yet spoken to Ms Marina Ragush. Here you go, Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17504	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, representatives of the ministry, Mrs. Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen, before I pay particular attention to the draft law, whose implementation we can all really look forward to, because it would mean that a very sensitive and poorly regulated area is in order. I just need to warn you about a few technical things. Perhaps you are not aware yet, technically we are trying to train everyone, but MPs when speaking are not signed, so in the transfer you de facto and you don't know which MPs are addressing, and then you question this smart chip, which is on the card and which should be on display reading the data from smart chips. I guess it's a software problem, that's not happening. I hope that will be removed, because since the beginning of the session in this Parliament building, it has not been resolved. I know the service really works day and night to remove all similar problems, but it's of paramount importance, people call us by noticing it as a major flaw. Also, there is one more thing I must say, given that I did not have the right to reply in the morning session, and somewhere, Mrs Kalanovic, I found myself called when you spoke about that, based on the criticism referred to me, those who are representatives of the former regime until 2000 do not have the right to talk about certain opportunities created after or have no right to ask certain questions as to why we are in this situation. You'll correct me if I misunderstood you. I understand your position, it's your political conviction, your party platform, and that would be understandable if you weren't here as a representative of the government, as a minister, and I wasn't an MP. What the SRS does stems from Article 99. The Constitution of the Serbian state, which is the exercise of the government's work surveillance, and how we're going to ask you questions and we're going to try to point out to the Serbian public everything that you did as an opposition until 2000, and among other things, your party chief wrote "the economy of destruction", and we plan to write something similar since 2000, and that's our right. We are the opposition, we belong to this ideological group, we analyze, we try to draw attention that the lives of citizens in Serbia should look much better, much nicer, much more fruitful and worthy of man, and he is not. On the other hand, I hope that everything we're pointing at, and it is a criticism, you won't experience it personally, because there's no reason for you to experience it like that, we don't know each other. This should be an argumentary criticism. You'll come out with your data, so let's see what's best done for the state of Serbia. It seems to me that your party boss acted on a few occasions yesterday as if he had personally experienced the full criticism and debate that was being held in Parliament yesterday, and indeed we all agreed that it was very good, all in all and in the final summation. Of course, there are political beliefs and political colors, for God's sakes, we are all representatives of political parties and we express our political beliefs here, and citizens judge it in the elections and I suppose it is nothing controversial. Also, what the Serbian public should also know is that the position of the SRS is certainly not irrational and that it condemns you for the effects of the global financial crisis. No one lives much louder, much more powerful in terms of qualifications could assume that such a thing would happen in this proportion. No one could assume, nor could project the effects of the crisis expected in the state of Serbia. However, what is the subject of criticism is the state of the economy and state in the state of Serbia today in light of the financial crisis. That's what we're trying to make very transparent, very obvious and see where it was wrong to keep it from being wrong. The elections will be, God will give, Serbia has had so many choices to assume that it has reported and learned very, conditionally, both by political jargon and false promises and political tricks, so that the people in Serbia, I think, can already recognise a complete political picture and political scene in the state of Serbia. Also, what is one of my party's starting grounds, I suppose you'll agree with it, is that in such an impoverished society, an important item is a calculation with corruption, but a radical reckoning with corruption where there will be no untouchable, where for every name and last name found, beyond reasonable doubt, that it participates in corruption, that it steals the people of the Serbian state, it will have to be spoken publicly about it. Yesterday, we set an example of the acquisition of the property of "Luke Belgrade", and we mentioned two families, now almost ruling Serbia. One is Mr. Miskovic, the other is Mr. Beko. We have asked for concrete answers, and this is a signal to us that the government has resolved, in particular the Resort Ministry, to make it clear to such emerging situations. It was not clear to us, and we brought it to the whole Serbian public, how that someone who has an offshore company with 30,000 euros can pay for the 40m-euro stake, how to create such monopolies that two families rule Serbia, so we cited the example of the 'C Market', we cited the example of 'Luke Belgrade', the diameter of "Knjiza Milos". And what the public in Serbia should know now, the SRS also made today an official proposal to educate the polling committee on the purchase of the Business Centre "Usje" and the construction of a multi-functional centre "Usje". And that's what we as an opposition can do. So on today, the Serbian Parliament officially received this proposal. What the SRS promises is that before the eyes of the public will finally be transparent, very plastically determined – it is possible to change urban plans several times, so that land or squares of 30,000 squares can be transformed into a square of 180,000 squares and that the current value means 720m euros. The names that appear there are also very important to the Serbian public and we will make our contribution there, because we think that the fight with corruption and organised crime under the auspices of the state is giving us answers to everything. So, it gives us answers to who it is that affects the political scene in the state of Serbia, who ends the electoral will, how political decisions are made here, and that's where all the arguments will be made, we all want the better for the people of Serbia to fall. We have this proposal to educate the survey committee to support concrete facts, asking the Assembly to meet, and I am glad that Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic is there, to ensure that the work of this survey committee, which we think will be of great importance for the state of Serbia, is monitored in direct transmissions, that cameras are present every day when we finish the session, after 1800 hours, for the simple reason why it is the most visible term and the public in Serbia must know what is actually happening in the state of Serbia, in which way it really works in this country. There are a bunch of public secrets, but the government in Serbia, the regime in Serbia does not want to talk about it. Why? Now, the time has come for us to find out who "MK Kostic" is, who is Mr. Petar Matic, how urban plans have changed, how another building is now planned next to the famous Business Centre "Usje", how there has been a change of purpose, how the law has been played, and we need to believe that the laws in the state of Serbia will be implemented. The SRS has 3,000 pages of evidence. During the work of the polling committee, all will appear before the Serbian public. We promise this time, we'll get this thing to the end and to the bottom of it. The proposal is the Serbian Radical Party, nine years after democratic changes and promises to enter a direct fight with organised crime, monopolies and corruption in the state of Serbia, is being careful, the opposition party also sent to Mr. Ivic Dacic, on 2 February 2009, and on 26 March 2009, a conversation was held with Deputy Chief of Staff Mr. Dacic on the subject. Then, it was handed over to Mr Oliver Dulic on 9 February 2009, and on 9 March 2009, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, the justice ministry, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, was presented on 9 March 2009. The first man in Belgrade, Mr. Gilas, won 31 March 2009. So what we expected was a concrete reaction that was missing. All these people will have to answer just before this survey board why there is no concrete response and a concrete response to all those who have been familiar with, and will be shown, a historic robbery in the state of Serbia. This will be just the beginning. We have 3,000 pages of evidence for the Business Centre "Usje", we also have evidence for Miskovic and Beka. What is our contribution and what will be our contribution, and I think we will help you in power as well, but we will expect an answer as to why it has not been done so far. Yesterday you heard about Luke Belgrade, it's an old story. You have the Council's report on the fight against corruption, since February 2008, it's outrageous that it has not responded in this sense, so let's see why the government has finally failed to deal with organised crime that reaches the highest peaks of the state, so we'll see why people are being kidnapped by power in Belgrade, what government in Belgrade specifically means and who stands behind certain political, conditionalally speaking, variations under Mr Tadic's regime, which the centres can manage life in Serbia. I think it will be very transparent, from the Parliament's relationship to the survey board, whether there will be cameras, whether there will be direct transfers, it will be a definitive response to the Serbian public whether the state of Serbia intends to deal with corruption and organised crime or not. This will, further, be an answer to all of us to the fundamental question – whether we should have a parliament at all, whether we should pass laws when laws apply only to a particular category, in an increasing percentage of the impoverished population in Serbia, when we will prove concrete. Therefore, 3,000 pages of evidence exist that at every turn, what is a legal obligation is usurped. It is only one aspect and in the first part of the exposure I will use only this time to suggest that the assumption of the story of all these laws is the assumption that we live in a company that has a functional economy, which has no debt of $30 billion, which does not suffer any damage from the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU of 267m euros. The assumption is that in time, we paid attention, that the state of Serbia could have entered the recession, but it was too late with certain measures, that is our political confidence. Very soon, we will be either confirmed or denied, but what we will draw attention to in my next presentation is concrete data that we have come up with in parallel analysis of the data that we have been able to come up with by searching for specific sites of certain groups that have been dealing with, say, the percentage of people with disabilities per city in Serbia. What amazes us is that the database is not yet updated in the way we expected it to be, so that the picture is much more acceptable and clearer when we are already talking about such an important set of laws. And what is significant in this whole story is to answer us – will these laws be applied in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija?- I'm sorry. It's a question that the SRS will repeat every time a bill is found on the agenda. Why? Because the answer to that question will give us an answer whether the state of Serbia is under protection or not, whether the state of Serbia is exercising all those attributes of statehood or not. In contrast, we have answers to all future questions. So, what future awaits us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17505	Thank you, Mrs. Ragush. We are moving to work in order of the Members of the People as you are declared. 26th and 27th. Mr. Riza Halimi isn't here. The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17506	Mrs. Kalanovic said there are 758,387 unemployed in Serbia today. The question is what kind of number will be in a month, as new layoffs are predicted, and when a few months pass and comes more than a difficult fall, then we will feel all the dissatisfaction of the people with whom all expectations and rights have been denied, even the right to work. You know, in psychotherapy, there's one principle that's applicable here. It's often more important who and how he talks than what he says. Content can be beautiful, and the outcome can be devastating. Mrs. Kalanovic, how can we trust you and Minister Dinkic after everything you've said and done? Of course, no one in their right mind could be against the law that aims to achieve, as it writes – the highest possible degree of employment through the creation of an effective and flexible legal framework for the performance of these jobs, but in a situation where no new one has received a job, except for the party line or nepotism line, and the job loses at least 10,000 people a month, the story of reducing unemployment sounds like another fairy tale by Mr. "Young Minhauzena". Only if this minister, called 'thousands of euros', had it been for both actions and replacements "old for new", and now it was probably as a background or, where more than one picture of his, let's say, could he explain how he would realise Article 78, under which the beneficiary of the financial compensation has the right to health, pension and disability insurance during the exercise of the right to cash compensation. The basis for this is the amount of cash compensation. That's great, there's money, there's both internships and insurance, but if you and the National Service say that there are 758,387 people on the unemployment records, if they pay off late months, where will the Minister of Economy, who declared himself the world's best minister, just like Houdini or Alchemist, provide money, and how much is it from the budget for that month? Since you are from the executive authority, I see you are ridiculous, and by the permission of a person in the role of president, you have made a precedent in the international right of democratic countries by overturning the principle of separation of executive, legislative and judicial authorities, and now you, as executive authority, are bringing in Lex specialis, controlling the legislative authority, which is indeed a complete paradox, it is obvious that you do not have the best contact with reality. If you could just look out the windows of those official cars of yours or by any chance decide to take a walk in this town, you'd see this famous hideout game going on in the streets, the type of boulevard of King Alexander, where people run away, removing these paper boxes and these so-called. The hauba of the buty, when the police come, who, when no one sees it, buys from the same street vendors, because that's their purchasing power. You would also see people who became redundant during your privatisations and the successful development of the market economy, who packed dignity and professional qualifications into easily folded cardboard boxes. Professors, engineers, even doctors, there are more highly qualified personnel than you do in the government. This law provides for a qualification or retraining of unemployed persons for deficits in the labour market in order to increase the level of their employability. Perhaps these street vendors have overqualified themselves, so why are they being chased by law enforcement authorities when the country's top authority, Mr. Tadic, turns his better profile into "The impression of the week", with the exultation of the vote for a young unemployed doctor who finished medical school with an average score of over 9, and now he's back in mid-medical, overqualified. If he had already been so eliminated by a bright example of an unemployed young intellectual, by a case that any normal statesman would be ashamed of, then why wouldn't he have overqualified himself, so let's just say he came back at a time when he was selling dolls and souvenirs his wife used to make? Is it best, say, that when you lose your job at 50 years of age, you decide to return to kindergarten, because under the adopted Law on Prohibiting Discrimination, no one can deny you the right to education, and then come to the National Employment Service in a nice way and make a brand of it with these old and hard-core human beings, since you mostly speak English, an individual employment plan within 90 days? Of course, in case someone doesn't put you in "Laz" or a similar institution. You've completely degraded the assembly. You're trying to bully the people into MPs, and mostly those from the opposition, who are really serious and responsible, but unfortunately, they're not in the way of foreign forces that would via the 'yellow' tasters to establish a two-party system, under complete control. When you abolish the state financing of opposition parties, it will only remain for the tycoons to buy Parliament, deploy a few characters that are to their extent, while President Tadic, for example, engages his students, had a custom that is loyal, and to sign EU laws without translation. What difference does it make if Tadic says that Parliament should have 125 MPs, which is not in accordance with the Constitution, then the official language in Serbia can be English?- I'm sorry. You shouldn't stick to the law as a drunk float, the JBT said, now, from that JBT remained BT, more specifically, grew BT which says – neither must the Constitution! You must not go out among people or be disgusted by this demanding people, because there are always some objections, so the Minister of Economy should no longer interfere with privatisation, because everything that Mr Dinkic touched, from the privatisation of RTB "Bora", JAT, the destruction of "concession", there was only successful, I mean in destruction, with a nearly annulled gas arrangement, and he does not believe in employment, what security this people offer to a man who has not fulfilled any of his promises. Since you do not want to hear your people, I will read to you, let's say, a few comments on TENJUG's news from February 20, 2009, when the government in the assembly procedure sent you a draft law on employment and unemployment insurance, you had the opportunity to read to the government in contact with the public, so I have to read to you, says the beginning: – The first comment – though, they want to give us cancellations, and now they want to hire, because, like, there are a lot of unemployed, this smells so bad that I feel through the monitor. I'm sorry, Alexander says. – The second thing – therefore, the minister determines the quota to be reached by the national non-employment service. So, what happens when it does, does it cancel out, replace the editor-in-chief and the editor-in-chief? It's hard, since from this "gay" 17 plus, that's what I said, whether it's going to be seen at the level of a local or at the level of Serbia, so when in Belgrade or Novi Sad, it's working through a quota, and in Surdulica and Shid, then on average, it's a charm! - Listen to the next comment – what about a bunch of people who are screaming on the desk and are not unemployed. Will they get that 50% average profit until they find a job? And they have to live. In the EU's long-term unemployed of 18, they have social assistance until they find a job. It's normal here that they don't get anything and live with parents who depend on charity to support them, sometimes until they die. The state is looking for money for all possible things with the same zero-income unemployed, as well as for the extraction of the most expensive personal documents in the EU. Production and consumption cannot be stimulated, if neither can be bought the basic, or what is eaten. I think that the government has done very little to reduce poverty, although the last vote was a big warning, there will no longer seem to be a vote, that Serbia is deeply divided and that the fight against poverty is number one. Instead of focusing on it, we're reading how one of the beatings got millions, we're reading about thefts, boards of directors, a bunch of malfeasances, while the socially endangered population is doing nothing. End, this government is doing nothing! Interestingly, it's an unemployed, urban sociologist who is 30 years old. - Next, great, first, they raise the retirement age for generations living on the Bensedins, not to mention why bensedins, I guess everyone knows what we've been through in the '90s. Now that the cancellations have started to rain, they reduce the maximum length of compensation to 12 months. A graduated engineer, 59 years old, knows he's working on a computer, knows English, knows his profession well, doesn't steal so he has no capital, now he's out of a job. What's he gonna do until he retires? Who needs him? He can make a hundred plans, he can make them, but no one will hire him. It's been 12 months fast, and the pension is far away. – Next, these benefits refer to their party staff (so, yours) who quit as a foll, take nice severances, and then get back to work in some convenient state service. In Vranj we have Dinkic's invention, people are being transferred from Jumka to Zamber (if so, I ask a colleague from Vranj, just to confirm) the commission is being divided, and the company is failing, and 800 workers are being found on the street without any severance or compensation. This law is certainly not passed because of them. – To finish, perhaps with this, shame, the Government is reducing the rights of the unemployed, practically reducing to 80% of the minimum wage for the unemployed, although so far it has been 100% of the minimum earnings! The right to receive benefits for the unemployed is reduced. The government thus reduces self-costs and creates a false impression of reducing unemployment on the National Employment Service's record. (President: Will you finish? I would have finished if I had read a few thousand more of these comments, but since I don’t have time for that, I think you’ll be meeting them live on the street soon! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17507	Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17508	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 2009, we entered with a vast party state and a weak economy. This is due to the rapid growth of the number of employees in the local public administration. With that, Madam Minister, today when you spoke about the number of employees, you may have had to analyse the number of employees in the last few years and see that the number of employees in the public sector, i.e. in the state local administration, has increased, while the number of employees in the economy has fallen, i.e. the decline in the economy in previous years is much higher than the growth in the public administration. If we talk about the draft employment law, we can talk about the necessary but not enough conditions to fight unemployment. The key problem when it comes to the jobless situation in the labour market, above all, in undeveloped municipalities, is the poor supply of jobs in manufacturing activities, a small number of small and medium-sized enterprises, the orientation of the private sector towards trade and hospitality, the lack of coordination of the education system with labour market requirements, working on black, the lack of industrial zones in these municipalities, as well as technological surpluses. In all of this, I believe that Article 28, which speaks of the employment council at local level, should have spoken as a body that needs to be formed, because local self-governments also have to assume a certain responsibility for the employment process, i.e. that local self-governments do not only work on employment when they need to increase their bureaucracy, but also create and participate in creating a place in the economy. Also, if we are talking about an active employment policy, which is well foreseen by this law, I would say a few examples that have proved to be very bad in practice and which should be corrected in the coming period by the National Employment Service. I'm primarily thinking of complicated documentation for programs, which further destimulates employers to use these programs. If we talk about the programme, for example, about self-employment and the new employment programme, we see that some forms speak, among other things, that the necessary evidence of ownership of the equipment purchased, paid bills addressed to the applicant's name is required or contracts for the purchase of equipment certified in court or municipality. Imagine a man who's been in construction for 10 or 15 years, he's got a skeleton, he's got a drill, and now if he wants to apply, that he's no longer working on black and he's asking to use this self-employment program, he's got to bring in some fiscal account or an account in his name that he bought it 10, 15 years ago. But if he doesn't bring it in, he notes that if you don't own any of those documents, the contract won't be signed. I think you need to fix this. Also, when you talk about the program for vocational training as a volunteer and trainee of practitioners, you should take care of the quotas that you give to individual branches of the National Employment Service, and so the branch covering four municipalities: Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varoš and Sjenica, gets 24 possible, and in these four municipalities there are 20,460 unemployed, of which with a 7th degree 412 and a 6th degree 487 unemployed, and within a year we get a quota of 24. What is worst, when this very small quota is obtained, comes a memo from the Ministry that it is necessary to suspend all activities related to the implementation of the trainee programme, trainee volunteers and practitioners after the competition published on 18 March. In 2009, further activities will be notified in good time by the Ministry. What was published as a competition on March 18th is lifted, and already today or yesterday we are getting new information, that the government will hire a new 1,000 or I don't know how many trainees in the next period. I ask the question – is it something new or is this old getting into a new form? Also, if we are talking about this law, it is necessary to say that this law, Article 104, states that all those who have made some of the contributions under the earlier law will also do so, but in the previous period there have been such cases that individuals who receive compensation from the employment office would be compensated for 20% due to some new law, so the Ministry, that is, the National Employment Service, instead of admitting the error and out-of-court alignment with such persons, already comes to court costs and thus individuals exercise their rights. In the end, I'd like to say something about education. I think education is one of the main generators of future unemployment in the area of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. it is necessary to have one close link between education institutions and employment institutions. We will be witnessing very quickly, perhaps in two or three years, that we have a large number of young people at the employment office, even with colleges completed, who will not be able to find an adequate job because of inadequate education, or because of education in those colleges whose staff we have quite enough. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17509	Thank you, Mr. Hajdarevic. The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17510	Honored presidents, respected presidency, respected MPs, the draft law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment and the proposal for a law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has finally brought to order in an area that is very important for people with disabilities and who, with great hope, expect to adopt, and in particular the application of these laws. I would especially refer to the draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. In practice so far, there have been more attempts to at least bring disabled people closer to working people. Formerly specialized companies, like DES, don't fit in these days. Of course, my opinion is that such companies justified their existence, and the disabled who worked in them viewed themselves as equal to physically healthy workers. This bill opens new opportunities for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. Encourage companies to hire people with disabilities at last become and the obligation of businesses to give their activities a chance for people with disabilities, to make their employment easier and faster to integrate into the social flows of life. The paper in the legal solutions proposed is also that the obligation to employ persons with disabilities may also not be met, but are obliged in this case to pay certain funds in a separate budget fund. This fund will fund participation in the employment of disabled enterprises, as well as the establishment of specialised enterprises for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people, so-called "the "Employment of Disabilities". Protective workshops. The draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons also introduces rights for categories of persons with disabilities that have not been subject to legal protection so far. These are wartime military people with disabilities, peacetime military people with disabilities, and civilian people with disabilities. This is a major shift in the legal protection of those disabled and disabled persons, and it is commending the government's insistence to help citizens who have acquired their disability by defending their country in wars that were waged in the premises of the former SFRY. This bill also provides for a great opportunity for professional rehabilitation of disabled people, and for disabled persons very significant activities, the organisation responsible for employment activities will be responsible. This will allow many people with disabilities to start working after an assessment of the remaining work capacity and retraining is carried out. Article 36. The bill clearly defines the obligation of the rehabilitation and employment company to have at least 50% of people with disabilities. The bill provides for a refund in those companies from the Serbian budget and a 50% budget fund from the average personal income in the economy, which I welcome, as many businesses will also stimulate these funds to employ people with disabilities. The formation of working centres, under the auspices of local self-government or the Republic, will also enable disabled people who cannot be found in businesses as persons employed to work and create and earn money. The sense of usefulness within society is something that is most necessary for people with disabilities. In the end, the criminal provisions defined in Art. In 49 and 50 of the proposed law, for the first time, the state took seriously the protection of the disabled from unconscious employers and provided them with the opportunity to feel equal with other employees. With the law on the prohibition of discrimination already adopted, people with disabilities are given the opportunity to get to work easier. In voting day, the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support the draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17511	The word is Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17512	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Mrs Kalanovic said in the afternoon part of the session that there is almost no politician or political speech that does not begin with the sentence that unemployment is a major problem in our society. I don't think it's necessary for some great wisdom to be understood, and I'm not going to be dealing with empty demagogy, but I'm going to try to point out something that I think really is the fundamentals of our society's value system. I will refer to the draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. The bill is a natural continuation of a process launched during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, when the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities was passed. The 2006 law was the first law of that kind in Southeast Europe, and thus Serbia sent a message to everyone in the environment, that the issue and improvement of the position of disabled people considered a couple of excellencies a question of human rights and creating equal opportunities for all. We will all agree that finding a solution to this problem should not be a matter of giving or mercy, but must be a matter of solidarity and equal treatment for all citizens. Even after the government was formed in 2004, when the Ministry Act was adopted, and later some of the internal acts that had been regulated by the work of certain ministries, a sector was set up to deal with disability issues, i.e. persons with disabilities, within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Affairs. Also later, a strategy was adopted to improve the situation of people with disabilities and so far Serbia has actively participated in the development of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and through a number of laws in different areas has affected the issue. Only some examples are the release of duties on imports of vehicles and the release of tolls for disabled persons, then an increase in the addition to other person's care, the introduction of a obligation to broadcast a gesture information programme for hearing impaired persons, and this was done under the Law on Broadcasting, then support for the full inclusion of children with disabilities in pre-school education and has been provided accessibility to facilities of general interest for disabled persons through certain interventions in the Construction Act. During this period, standardised funding criteria for persons with disabilities are also given, and significant budget support has been given and a monitoring programme has been developed to improve the position of disabled people, so that the problem is treated as high as possible. When it comes to the draft law on the agenda, it is important to highlight the fact that around 70% of people with disabilities in Serbia are poor, and that only 13% of them are employed or working. In order to improve this situation, in addition to the legal framework, of course, the very position of society as a whole is significant. In addition, it is important to motivate a person with disabilities to perfect themselves, and it is important to correct the educational process in terms of providing more practical knowledge when the schooling process is completed. In that sense, I think it is a very important initial step in opening a university centre for students with disabilities in March 2008. With regard to the employment of persons with disabilities, the law provides for a combination of binding and stimulating measures to ensure that a number of persons with disabilities are accepted by key. I think that as this law applies and further evolution continues in society, I think that these binding measures will become less and less relevant, and that stimulating measures will take place because employers themselves will see that if they are adequately trained persons with disabilities can be fully equal and very good at doing all the work. From this pay phone I want to express my concern that this government will apply this law in a quality way and manage to improve the position of the disabled person. The government is markedly persuaded by itself, without clear measures regarding the resolution of the economic crisis, the fight against corruption and the improvement of citizens' standards. I think that in the next period, there is a difficult time, not only for people with disabilities, but also for all other citizens of Serbia. I will only give an example of how the state could make certain savings both in formulating and later applying this law. An initiative to extend the deadlines for privatising disabled enterprises has been put in place in time to boost competitiveness and speed up recovery and development in 34 disabled enterprises. The idea was to save the state in terms of the existence of a Centre for Professional Rehabilitation at regional level, such as someone who lives in Užica or Vranj would not have to come to work in Belgrade but could, for example, immediately after training done in Užica or Vranj to find a job there. The new bill, unfortunately, does not treat disabled businesses as existing centres for professional rehabilitation, but they still need to meet certain conditions to become one. Also, the government of Norway project, raising the competitiveness of disabled enterprises in Serbia, has made less sense, but unfortunately has not been successfully realised, although money has been spent. Unfortunately, most of these companies under this current bill will not meet the conditions to become centres for professional rehabilitation, because in debt, they have outdated equipment, and property is being sold out. So it seems to me that the government does not have a clear strategy on this matter. This bill mainly treats persons with physical disabilities, and then questions whether there is a possibility of involving them, when it comes to open-market employment, and underdeveloped persons. Also, the provisions on the subsidisation of employers who employ disabled persons with 12 months minimum wage value say that this also sends a message to employers that they should minimally evaluate the work of these people. Finally, I would ask the question of how many persons with disabilities participated in the draft law and whether there were consulted persons with sensory, intellectual and physical disability. However, these processes mean and require that the wider the set of factors to be included in the formulation of such legal solutions so that it is quality and long-term. I would ask a question and I would like to get an answer to that question – is it and why since December the government has not realised social contributions to KIM especially for people with disabilities and their care, when in the rest of Serbia is realized month after month? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17513	Thank you. Ljiljana Miladanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17514	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, ahead of the Prosperity Group, Serbia-Serbian Progressive Party would refer to the draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. The starting basis for regulating these social foundations is the existence of a database that realistically shows the state and possibilities of society to take first steps in systemizing norms and legal arrangements for the inclusion of disabled persons in all social flows. Our society does not have accurate data and state of mind in this area, sufficient economic, scientific and willing potentials to improve the living conditions of this category of population as quickly and more humanely as possible. However, given all the circumstances given, the proposal for a law on professional rehabilitation and employment with disabilities is indisputable to treat a very sensitive, important both life and legal area. This law complements existing regulations relating to the social and legal situation of disabled persons in our country, but also opens the need for sublegal acts of different nature to be regulated in an even more precise and detailed way, because the law provides only basic principles, which means that all bodies, organisations and other persons involved in the implementation of the objectives set will have to contribute to the practical implementation of the norms, the enforcement of the laws, so that it does not remain a dead letter on paper. What is certainly following this law, and what may be a problem in its practical application, is firstly its financial structure being imposed as primary, so that these legal solutions are visible and tangible in everyday life. The aim of this law is to improve the situation of people with disabilities and to provide them with the right to, as far as possible, smooth professional development in accordance with individual abilities. How to provide the funds provided for by the law for the establishment of the budget fund? Does the state have the resources to draw funds from? Whether, in a serious way, analysis of the real facts has given rise to the possibility to allocate funds for the budget fund, or whether it is merely a free wish that is implicated in the proposed legislative solutions. What are these sources for the budget? Raising the tax rate, increasing other interest rates that most citizens are pushing to the limit of inability. Where are the real bases, plans and actions that will lead to the desired goal? These are all serious issues that were to be resolved before this law was passed, which means – a dead letter on paper, because the best intentions that are not translated into real life only further make life difficult, both the working part of the population and the work that should be included in the activities that will bring about the expected improvement for them and society as a whole. Some of the opportunities that legal solutions give, such as self-employment, grants, the release of customs and tax obligations for importing equipment and technology, humanitarian activity, are given, listed, but are not in detail and seriously converted into actual and urgent activities that can, immediately after the law has been passed and implemented. In the solutions offered by this law, we will see that there is basically an employer. First of all, the will and then the discipline in applying this law, the employers themselves, will depend on a lot. The law provides sanctions for non-compliance with mandatory employment provisions for a certain number of persons with disabilities with an employer who has at least 20 workers in employment, which is a monetary penalty, which is certainly a good idea and a way for employers to commit themselves, but it will also commit, unfortunately, a small number of employers. It will mainly be big companies, companies that have a minimum of 20 employees in their composition. So, a percentage number of those who are able to provide jobs will be left out, I am talking about small businesses, law offices, independent trades and similar business entities that do not reach this legal minimum by the number of workers who would create a job obligation for persons with disabilities. – There are also jobs in this sector that could be entrusted to these people. Therefore, it may be necessary to lower this legal threshold on the number of employees to 10 to 15. On the other hand, the law also provides for certain reliefs for employers who participate in the financing of persons with disabilities, as well as certain tax reliefs for these employers, so that all of this gives one good formal basis and a starting point for the application of the law. It will also be of great importance to the business environment and atmosphere that will be created in the working environment in which people with disabilities, raising the awareness and culture of our fellow citizens, in order to give such persons the treatment they deserve. In this field it is necessary to generally raise awareness, cultural level, and to reach the compassion and solidarity of our citizens involved in the process of work. Active investment in the assessment of work capacity and in the entire process of business rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, the legislator entrusted the organisation to the employment authority. It's a whole new business sector, and it's entrusted to the authority of this organization. To that end, a plan, a development programme and a competent organisation should be developed to strengthen the staff, in order, on the one hand, to bring together persons with disabilities who, by law, must first be kept on the record of unemployed persons, with this organisation and the organisation responsible for employment activities itself, together with the real results. It is also necessary for this organisation to establish close cooperation with other bodies and organisations, in particular with the organisation responsible for pension and disability insurance activities, which, together with it, implements the overall process of involving persons with disabilities in the process of working in our society. We must certainly observe that the work and impact of the organisation responsible for employment activities in its regular activities, the results it has achieved by performing its basic tasks and they are not exactly at an envious level, and also from that aspect to look at the future results of this law, which is actively involved in implementing the measures provided for in the law solutions. What are the results of the employment organisation so far? The results are minimal, so you don't say anything. And the question is how will, in accordance with the obligations of this law, be able to further contribute to resolving this issue. Is that a good solution? Is there anyone better? It seems that a little time has been spent in the design and study of this issue. No solutions have been studied by much more developed societies than ours, who in their countries do these jobs. These are all important decisions in establishing systematic solutions. The law offered an idea-based good solution, which is the establishment of a budget fund for professional rehabilitation and the promotion of people with disabilities. This fund is certainly necessary and without it it is difficult to manage the control of the dedicated use of funds allocated to professional rehabilitation and to encourage employment of disabled people. The objective of future activities in implementing comprehensive measures and education cannot be achieved without material support. To put aside this organization, a scheme of participants in the overall process, which in practical application will show all its advantages and disadvantages, which I hope will build on further changes in the overall system, to protect these populations. We will refer to legal solutions given to specific forms of employment and employment of persons with disabilities, in the form of enterprises for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, working centres and social enterprises and organisations. Therefore, a whole new field of business entities that can provide employment for people with disabilities, including those who cannot be employed and maintain employment under general conditions, i.e. under special conditions. those whose working performance is less than one-third of the working performance of the employee in the usual workplace. Therefore, it is possible for all persons who, under the proposal of this law, are considered persons with disabilities to be involved, regardless of the degree of disability, in accordance with their mental and physical abilities, in some form of employment. The general assessment of the law itself, or what it wants to achieve, is good. However, when we ignore this ideal and fairy-tale image that gives us the law with its solutions, we need to look back at a reality that, least of all, does not follow positive regulations. The unemployment level in our country is extremely high. Labour conditions are also very often below each minimum and in such everyday life, which is unloved and for those members of the working class who are fully working and have no interference and difficult circumstances, much more financial resources must be provided. In particular, additional technical and technological conditions of work must be achieved for this category of population and, first of all, a lot of goodwill must be put in place to include persons with disabilities in this process in the way that this is appropriate for a modern society. Additional attention is needed for people with disabilities, not only at the stage of their involvement in the process of work, because it is going in the opposite direction, but from the very beginning of their education and training for later life, but at the beginning to provide equal opportunities and opportunities with others. So, from the initial stage in kindergartens, schools, universities, because these institutions have initial roles in the formation of an atmosphere that will at a later stage facilitate professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people, because it is a process that follows logically further. In particular, I would refer to the situation of retired people with disabilities who have lost their jobs, or who are waiting for work because of the otherwise difficult economic situation in Serbia, and given the upcoming economic problems of the whole world, because of the economic crisis that has largely taken place. The position of this category of population is particularly difficult. It is known that in many of our companies and employees of disabled people, it is not better. It is rare that domestic companies provide workers with higher levels of health and life protection than those established by law. Such a situation must be overcome as soon as possible, in the interest of all employees of disabled workers, their families, employers, organisations and society in general. Companies should give these people additional employment. That would be good for businesses, but also for fired people, because that kind of activity would be mutually beneficial. We need to ensure that human and civil rights of persons with disabilities are as much of the rights and foundations of the freedom of all citizens. In our rooms, unfortunately, it is uncommon for people with disabilities to experience discrimination based on disability. The employment policy of people with disabilities is desperate. The disabled, especially those who move with aids, need a tailored job that has mostly only large public enterprises. Through this law, we need to provide and protect people with disabilities who have certain skills and should be a better form of insurance than passive social protection. The special protection system of persons with disabilities should function in accordance with the rules and principles laid down by this law and other regulations which would comply with them. The fact that the state provides only a minimum of special protection with its regulation, while for a higher level of that protection, organisations themselves must take care of themselves. Therefore, this law should not only oblige employers to protect persons with disabilities but also to regulate the outward application of the law, that is, its respect and application. In this way, the law obliges employers not only to ensure consistent application of legal measures but also to take additional measures and activities on its rise to a higher level. Since it is known how complicated and unscheduled the administration in Serbia, this law should better regulate the area of issuing solutions, findings and opinions, as well as a system of criminal measures for employers who do not meet their obligations do not employ people with disabilities, do not provide easier jobs and the like. There can be no law so unseriously dealing with such a problem, in order to protect people with disabilities, that there are no restrictions that mean a certain deadline to meet the obligation. On this issue, there are major gaps in this law, because it is very unserious to prescribe criminal measures without setting concrete time limits. It is great that the company is withdrawn from authorisation if it ceases to meet the conditions laid down by this law. But it's not known how long after the violation has been committed, his license is withdrawn. Also, the amazing fact is that people who are in rehab can't start a working relationship. Or the fact that the law does not oblige a public report on the irregularity of a company's work, but only the ministry. In addition, there is no regulated question of persons with disabilities, if there are objective conditions for a disabled person to go to rehab and train for a job, and this refuses, regardless of several options and opportunities for professional training or repeatedly refuses the offered job. It should bear the consequences of minor social benefits or the loss of some other privileges cannot legally determine obligations but not responsibilities. In addition to professional rehabilitation and employment, this law only calls for the principle of involving persons with disabilities in all areas of social life on an equal footing. No member of the law writes anything about it. Labour disabilities have certain values and certain potentials and should be specifically directed and exploited. Their knowledge, skills, experience and abilities can be of invaluable importance to the company and its business. Therefore, this law should regulate employment problems and professional training of disabled persons, as well as the rights and obligations of employers. The process has been started, I want to believe that this is just the beginning that will further engage to solve this issue at all levels lead to far greater results and give our endangered citizens a chance to live as a whole developed world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17515	The word has been given by the People's MP Mrs. Gordana Rajkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17516	The respected presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities, which I want to talk about, has been a document of which thousands of people with disabilities in Serbia have been looking forward to for several years. At a time when we face the global economic crisis, and efforts seem to be made to make sure that its consequences do not affect to the greatest extent the vulnerable groups of the population, the adoption of this law becomes even more important. Employment is one of the biggest problems facing people with disabilities in Serbia, although these persons belong to the right to work, employment choices, fair working conditions, which are guaranteed by many international documents, from the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to the European Social Charter and the Action Plan of the Council of Europe for Persons with Disabilities, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other domestic acts, including the most important Strategy for improving the situation of persons with disabilities and the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Discrimination of these persons, adopted in 2006. In addition, as already said, World Bank data and domestic research show that only 13% of people with disabilities are employed in Serbia. What is further worrying is that out of these 13%, 10% are employed in the NGO sector, in the organisations of persons with disabilities, and only one percent in the economy, businesses for the employment of persons with disabilities and in the public sector. On the National Employment Service records, there are currently slightly less than 23,000 of these people, and in the last year, only 596 were employed. Unemployment of people with disabilities is three times higher than in the rest of the population and a large number, almost 90% depends solely on social transfers. The reasons for this situation are numerous, and there are certainly a lack of equal opportunities in access to education, physical environment, communication, lack of adequate service and support, as well as prejudices about the lower abilities of persons with disabilities and the fear of employers that these persons will have less effect than other workers. On the other hand, daily practice and research published shows that over 90% of employers who already employ people with disabilities are very pleased with their work. There are very many such examples, from those with impediments in intellectual development who are employed, i.e. working in "Mecdonalds", from members of the City Council in Leskovec, or advisers at the Regional Ministry of Social Protection in Novi Sad, who are persons with high disability and wheelchair users, to persons with disabilities working at the "Textile company AMC" and whose director is a journalist commentary on one show that the employment of persons with disabilities is a very human move, answered – no, you are wrong, I am not hiring them because of humanity, but because they are excellent workers. The bill before us is therefore very important, because it aims to provide adequate conditions for integration and to increase the employment of persons with disabilities and their inclusion in the labour market and also to regulate the employment of persons with disabilities in accordance with international legal and positive practices of countries where this type of law is already being implemented. This bill has several specificities, i.e. newspapers, among which I would point out, above all, a new definition of the phenomenon of disability in line with the social model, which treats disability as an interaction between personal properties and physical and social barriers in the environment and the need for all people to be included in society as equal. The paper is an assessment of professional opportunities that changes paradigms and puts focus on the ability, instead of the current assessment of the degree of damage, as defined by the 1996 Labour Training and Employment Act. So it's estimated not what I can't do for my disability, but what I'm capable of achieving independently of it. The employment obligation is also a newspaper of this law or quota system that exists in most countries of Europe and which should allow for greater employment in the economic and public sector, especially if we have in mind that only 1% of people with disabilities are employed in those sectors. On the other hand, active employment measures are being promoted, including different subsidies that are now required to help employers employ these people to a greater extent. It is also new to set up a Centre for the Promotion of Employment of Persons with Disabilities as part of the National Employment Service. And finally, but not by any means, but in answer to the question of a fellow who spoke earlier, this law manifests a good affirmation of the principle of participatoryness according to the motto of the disability movement – nothing about us without us. Because the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has enabled the organisation of a public debate to bring forward numerous organisations of persons with disabilities of all categories, as well as their legal representatives and representatives of the employment company of disabled persons their proposals and suggestions, which are largely included in the draft of this law. The bill also contains provisions on ways of identifying the professional opportunities of disabled persons and in accordance with this provision of the necessary type of support, defining the conditions of work under special conditions in persons with disabilities and special forms of employment, through working centres that will open up the possibility of working employment and persons who have so far been denied, and especially those with intellectual development disorders, expressed by many MPs here in the debate. Work centres are a good form of engagement and they already operate in practice in the organization of persons with disabilities organisations themselves. The amendments that I have made to this part of the law, alone and together with my colleague Plassic, and on the proposal of the organisations of persons with disabilities themselves, I believe that this possibility could be even more clearly defined and open the space for the organisation of persons with disabilities and their legal representatives to be involved in this activity, which we will discuss more in the discussion of details. The law also regulates the establishment, operation and financing of a employment incentive centre, whose activities will be financed from the remuneration of employers who cannot meet their employment obligations. The jobs that this centre would do are numerous, I would only like to single out jobs of professional rehabilitation for this opportunity, and within that three important things: One is training people with disabilities for the right job, retraining, maintaining employment and career advancement. Another very important thing, which is a major newspaper of this law, is the obligation of education and training for employers and professionals, which is of paramount importance when considering that there are great prejudices in this sphere. – This activity should motivate employers to meet the obligation of employment under the law rather than to pay certain funds into the budget fund. The third important thing that the law foresees is technical assistance and support defined in Article 13 which explicitly provides for support services, as one of the elements of professional rehabilitation, which will likely be defined by sublegal acts, and which should fall down and certain assistance needed, job adaptation and assistants. – This support is extremely important for people with a higher degree of disability who have so far been employed in a very small number or have not been employed at all, because this support did not exist. This also confirms the feasibility of the employment reform of people with disabilities in Serbia, which was done in 2006, with the support of the European Agency for Reconstruction and which particularly apostrophes the existence of relevant support services, as one of the key preconditions for increasing the employment rate of people with disabilities in Serbia. The adoption of this law opens up a number of space for realisation and this precondition. Of course, this law would bring about changes in the everyday life of people with disabilities is not enough to pass only the law. It is necessary that all the sublegal acts necessary for its application and that the government ensure co-ordination of the ministries and continued co-operation with all the partners who are to participate in this process, which Mr Meko Omerovic spoke of as well. In April of last year's parliamentary elections, the Invalid Movement of Serbia through the National Disabilities Organisation offered to sign a protocol on co-operation with all parties participating in the elections and in which they could express their readiness, to support the adoption of a series of measures to improve the situation of people with disabilities, including the adoption of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The protocol was signed by Mr. Sutanovac in front of DS, Mr. Dinkic in front of the G17 Plus party, Mr. Obradovic in front of the DSS and NS, who then went to the elections in the coalition, Mr. Dacic in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the United Pensioners, who were also in the coalition for elections and Mr. Latinovic in front of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. The bill is now before us, and given the genuine understanding and concern of improving the position of persons with disabilities, which many fellow Members and colleagues in this term have shown to me, I hope that we will all support this law, regardless of which political option we belong. The G17 plus parliamentary group will vote for this law, because we believe it contributes to the involvement of persons with disabilities in society and economic life, which is a pillar for successful diversity policy, and it can only be achieved with changes in the overall awareness of people with disabilities. I will vote in favour of this law because I believe that it should contribute to the society's view of us as equal citizens, capable of contributing to society and finally becoming an investment in Serbia, not a burden on society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17517	Thank you, Mrs. Rykov. I give my word to Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17518	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Mrs. Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen, we have made an effort, and as far as I understand the situation, we should be working until five to six, and after that... . But okay, I'll watch to calculate the time. We have really tried to get as much data as possible to finally understand why we came into this situation, to think about budget rebalancing in this way and whether this law and the proposal for these laws, which are beyond what Serbia needs, will be implemented in real circumstances. We are concerned, and there is a vague situation – it seems to me that the state is blind to certain vulnerable categories of society. If I understood you correctly, during today's session, you do not have the exact data of people with disabilities, and for example, we expected you to present this information for certain regions, i.e. parts, for certain cities, so that, conditionally speaking, the picture would be clearer on the degree of development of cities in Serbia, and hence certain districts, and what a tendency in terms of everything that we need to happen in the next year, two, three or five years. Some economists say he's been following us for five years. Let's not be pessimistic, maybe this is pessimism, but maybe it's best to expect the worst, so get ready. We think that people who have exercised power in the state of Serbia have not prepared themselves in the best possible way, because I suppose that the strategy of each government is to prepare for exactly these moments, therefore, for moments that it can assume can happen, especially in a fragile society, like Serbia. What we had the opportunity to see from the research we've been doing in recent days, I apologize if the data doesn't match the real moment, but you don't have the exact information, let's say, a picture that should fit the real situation in certain cities, in certain regions, and then we don't understand how Serbian citizens are going to get over the crisis, to exercise their labour rights, when the trend of increasing the unemployment rate is different in certain city centres and in certain regions. We think that everyone will push into the biggest cities, because there will be the only possibility that they will be hired, and then they will come into a difficult situation, as was the case with the Roma and the inhuman and unheard behavior of the first man in Belgrade to bring them back to where they came from, where they have a place of residence and to try to accomplish all that are the basic existential needs, and then it also applies to internally displaced persons who also have a very strangely resolved residence. It is forgotten again and the fact that everyone has come to Belgrade at some point, and this will be an increasingly frequent situation, as you simply go with your belly after bread. Frapantic data and the country's relationship to a situation that was on one media pictured through an example of medical students in Kragujevac. It is also interesting that your answer compared to your dealings with this problem, you asked about it, and that you realized that the doctor’s competition was open for certain positions, i.e. for a number of places. However, what has fraternised us is the positive attitude of the president of the state to this -- you see, a graduate medical student, an average above nine, look, don't sit down, finishes high-school medical technical school, and he'll provide himself with funds?- I'm sorry. That child will leave after finishing high school medical school, so, in continuity, ten years of the most severe denial, somewhere in a Western European democracy country to get a job. So you can say that it is a personal choice, but simply, it is a identified problem, this problem exists in society, and apparently that this child, like his colleagues, realized that in the state of Serbia he cannot live in a good way as a doctor. Simply, we suspect that he had in mind to establish and form his own clinic, and that's why, after his medical degree, he enrolled in a medical technical school. That can be your argument, and ours isn't, because we can name countless other documents. Let's say, we tried, I guess you do, too, I guess that's a strategy when making legal proposals to make all problems visible first, and then ordering certain analyses, making certain data, and then you know which people and what categories of people that law should apply to, and in what way you, and that's probably the goal of solving existential problems, so we also analyzed the situation on certain websites. I'll give you the address of the site right away – "Infostat.com. ". Among other things, there will be countless examples to see what people face if they want to get a job. These are frat examples I don't even want to talk about after the awful fraternizing data we've been giving for days. In the end, we weren't able to check all these examples, so I wouldn't want you to tell me -- you're picking up cheap political points in a crisis situation, I don't want to, but to figure out what the real situation is when it comes to employment and the possibility of a huge number of people losing their jobs because of the effects of the financial crisis, I was trying to create a picture for myself, because the state doesn't have an orderly data. What I was interested in was the situation with young people when they graduate from high school, at which rate they are employed. You made the data, if I'm all right, I think I wrote it down, that 9% of the people with high professional training are out of a job. And what I was also interested in is how single mothers go by, because we know that the trend is to grow single parents, which is mothers, which is fathers. I was also interested in how disabled people are going when they need to apply for a particular job. Mrs. Kalanovic, it's on this website. I've prepared all of this, I don't want to talk about this, these are brutal facts, and then I'll let you see it or finally visit that site. Those experiences people talk about, which are our reality, should tell us how this law will be implemented in practice. And then, again, I have to ask you, will this law be implemented on the part of KIM territory? What about internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija? To return to specific data, therefore, it is a project of Group 484. The project was published in March 2007, and we can say that the data were not updated properly, but I was specifically given these data, which I believe created a certain picture based on which to draw the conclusion, and this shows that the trend of layoffs is growing year by year, covering the period from 2003 to 2006. The financial crisis of world scales has not caught us in this situation. So, layoffs, the reduction of the working-age population, the migration within the Serbian state has been taking place as a course for years, and when the entire picture has been scanned, the recommendations of this organization, which you can speak of both this and that, but very serious projects still sign somewhere, is what we're talking about in 2009. Then the question is why didn't it happen before, when it was some better time, because these problems we're talking about, which are active employment measures, not just passive, it's just a recommendation to Group 484 in 2006, after the scan of the situation. This is what it looks like, the project was worked in five municipalities in Serbia: Kikinda, Užice, Kragujevac, Nis and Belgrade. When it comes to the city of Belgrade, it is the municipality of Palilu and here is what data came to. I'm not going to read all the data, but I think this information that I'm about to talk about here is going to be enough to take a picture of what it's too late to do. That's the essence of this presentation, and by the way, I guess I'll get an answer as to what you think, if nothing has been done about it all this time, and what a vision for this law we're talking about today. So that you don't get us wrong, who's being overused, and who we've tried to correct with the amendments certain proposed solutions. So, when it comes to the municipality of Kikind, what these experts are saying between 2003 and 2006, the number of residents in the municipality of Kikind has been steadily and significantly reduced and this reduction has been about 4,000 people, although the number of users of material security has been increasing every year. These funds were received from the Republic of Serbia's budget, from the municipality's budget and directed towards the Centre for Social Work for Single Money Assistance, School fees, expenses, funerals, medical services, shelters and boarding schools. Furthermore, on page 11 of this project, they say – compared to 2004, these funds were increased by more than 40% in 2006. The reason for such an increase is above all an increase in the number of jobless people, which is in 2006, compared to 2004 40% of the increase in resources that should be one-time assistance. Also, when it comes to the municipality of Kickinda, a number of young people with disabilities do not exercise the right to the necessary assistance. The recommendation was that in the next period, consideration should be given to the specific needs of each of them. Are they made, we don't have that information? According to the Association records, 11 people with disabilities are on unemployment records. However, based on data from the National Employment Service, the number is actually higher. One of these persons is not members of the aforementioned associations. The problem is that the said service has no isolated data for the number of unemployed persons in the disability category, aged 18 to 29. When it comes to the number of users of social transfers, there has been an increase in the number of young single parents, who address the competent institutions for monetary assistance, and then institutions should have at least a picture of them, which are categories. Therefore, the comparison was not possible, as stated in this project, because the collected data are not complete, do not cover the whole year and are not identical. In the part of the unemployment rate, the number of persons with disabilities on the record of unemployed National Employment and Implementation Programmes, so the target group was between 18 and 30 years of age in the category of persons with disabilities from territory, for example, the Kikinda municipality, was a sample of 51 people with disabilities in the youth category from 18 to 30 years of age. Among other things, what data did they come up with then? In the category of persons with disabilities from 18 to 30 years of age, 51 of whom were surveyed in the territory of the municipality of Kikind, some associations of persons with disabilities are members. So these people are being treated as unemployed and their sex structure is five men six women. According to education, these people are five-degree professionals. Their educational profile is the following: machine locksmith, tailor, dactylograph, qualified boiler, economic technician, chemical technician and educator. Data were obtained from the association, relating only to members of those associations. Based on data from the National Employment Service, it can be observed that the data is not complete. It is evident that some people with disabilities are not members of the aforementioned associations, so it may be interesting to present the data obtained from the Kikind branch. They show that the number of unemployed persons with disabilities greatly exceeds the number obtained from the association. Since five to six minutes are coming to an end, I'm going to try to bring this thought to an end. What amazes me, and I will continue to present the picture that Group 484 received by doing a project that covers three years of duration, funded by the EU, and then we will try to get an answer as to how the people of the Ministry made legal proposals, if they were specifically blind to the situation from city to city or situation in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, and for now I am bringing the end of my presentation, given that about seven minutes to 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17519	Thank you, Mrs. Ragush. The word is Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17520	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is my great pleasure to discuss today in Parliament the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. This law will allow disabled people to essentially improve their lives. When I think about people with disabilities, I can't help but remember the words of a friend of mine who, because of the nature of work, travel very often across European countries. He recently returned from Austria and told me that it's just amazing how many people there are with disabilities. So he could meet them everywhere, both on the bus and at the theater and at the movies, in all places. It is simply evident that such persons are living an active social life, and says there are very few in Serbia. I believe that's what many citizens think for the simple reason that they have no contact with these people or have no similar problem. So these social conditions create an illusion that we have very few persons with disabilities, for the simple reason that there are no conditions for the normal life of these people. We care about the state mostly comes down to some kind of social giving to people like this, which is good for the simple reason that most people with disabilities are persons who are also materially threatened, but I think the only real way to show concern for people with disabilities is to adopt this law that will essentially improve the lives of these people and that will give them one of the basic human rights, which is the right to work. I only mention a few newspapers provided for in this law. The first newspaper refers to the assessment of the working capacity of disabled persons, which I think is very important, because according to current regulations, it was mostly determined how incompetence they are, therefore, the degree of disability and very often happened that, for example, the blind person is 100% disabled and it is automatically concluded that such a person is fully incompetent, which does not have to be true. Thus, by establishing, or assessing, the ability to work will determine what these people can do and will actually have the opportunity to show how socially useful they can be. On the other hand, assessing the working ability of a person who, according to current regulations, did not have their status regulated, for example, those who suffer from multiple sclerosis, paraplegia, quadriplegia, will also be able to apply the provisions of this law to these persons, although their status has not been established so far. The law also provides for specific forms of employment of disabled persons through companies for professional rehabilitation or other social character enterprises, which I also think is very important, but what is most important is that for the first time the obligation of the employer to hire persons with disabilities, on 20 employees comes one person with disabilities. On the other hand, unless the employer is able to fulfil this legal obligation, he can finance salaries of persons with disabilities who are employed in these companies for professional rehabilitation. So this law is good. As I mentioned, it will essentially change the life of people with disabilities in Serbia, which is why the Democratic Party will vote for this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-15-0.u17521	Dear fellow Members of the People, we will be done for the day. We'll be back to work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelena Travar-Miljević, Nikola Novakovic, Aleksandar Čotric, Aleksandra Jankovic, Gordana Komic and Zoran Shami. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meeting, apart from the proposing representatives, to be attended by Ljiljana Juver, the assistant minister of economics and regional development, and Tatjana Prijic, head of the Department of Economy and Regional Development. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Mr. Aligrudić, please.
