ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34546	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has not considered proposals from the High Council of Justice to elect judges since August 2006. So in the last five years, no new judge has been elected in Serbia. Among the candidates now to be decided by the National Assembly are some candidates who have already been proposed by the High Council of Justice to elect to serve as judges. On the basis of Article 13, indent 3. Law on the High Council of the judiciary and Article 50(4) The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary, has proposed to the National Assembly candidates for the first election in office. The Law on Judges prescribed that judges should be elected by 1 December 2009 for a new network of courts to start working on 1 January 2010. I explained at the press conferences so far why the High Council of the Judiciary was late with the choice of judges and why it was not respected until 1 December 2009. The High Judiciary Council has announced a choice for 2483 judges, of which 615 are judges for violations. On the basis of the provision of Article 52. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary, elected 1531 judges to serve as a permanent judge. In front of you, the proposal for a decision by the High Council of the judiciary for the first election of 876 judges is on the three-year term. Of that number, 576 are judges of the law enforcement authority, and 300 are other candidates, including the largest number of judicial assistants. With the election of all the candidates proposed, it would remain unfulfilled, from the number for which the ad was called, 76 of the judges' seats. The High Council of the judiciary has paid special attention to the candidate for the first election of judges. During the examination of applications and candidates' proposals, the High Judicial Council followed decisions on the setting of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents, a provision relating to the selection of judges for a three-year term. The decision as criteria for the first choice of judges prescribed expertise, skills and dignity. The basic criteria for assessing the expertise of all candidates, other than judges for violations, are the average rating in studies, length of study and evaluation of the work that the candidate receives first from his principal or president of the council he works with, and then from the colleges of judges and these assessments are expressed by points, while the additional criteria, academic name and published professional papers. On the basis of the basic criteria set out above, a ranking of candidates per court for which the candidates applied, except for the judges for the infringements, to which the specifically prescribed basic criteria were established and also adopted by the High Council. In the process of proposing candidates, the High Judicial Council took into account the place the candidate had on the ranking list and the length of the internships following the judicial examination. For candidates who are judicial assistants, an insight has also been made into the candidate's personal list, and an opinion on the expertise, skills and dignity of the council and the court's session has been drawn up in which court assistants have been deployed. We think they're really the most objective criteria. For candidates who do not work in court, an opinion has been obtained from the authorities and organisations in which the candidates work, and for candidates coming from the lawyer's office, an opinion has been obtained from the bar, in which the lawyer's register is registered. During the review of candidates' applications from the judge's office, higher for violations and municipal authorities for violations, the High Council of the judiciary primarily appreciated the results of the candidate's work, based on the data on the percentage of compliance with the standard, the update coefficient for the period from 2006 to 2008. I believe that the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed the best candidates for the first election of judges for a three-year term, which is expected to show expertise and urgency in the work, in order to meet the conditions for a permanent judicial post after three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34547	Thank you, Mrs. Mesarovic. Do any of the promoters want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic, president of the State Council of Prosecutors. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34548	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, held at the session of the 15th day. 12. In 2009, on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with Articles 75, paragraphs 3 and 4 and Articles 85 and 86. Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as Article 13th indent, points 3 and 4. A law on the state council of prosecutors, the state's chief prosecutor has decided to propose to the Republika Srpska Assembly for the first election of 88 candidates, for appeals, senior and primary prosecutors in Serbia. The State's Chief Prosecutors made a decision on the selection of candidates for a public prosecutor's office, prior to, establishing their expertise, competence and dignity in the manner provided for by the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of the expertise and competence and dignity of candidates for public prosecutors. I would remind the honourable MPs that the Law on Public Prosecutors, as well as the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, has been given full support after the analysis by experts, the European Commission, as well as the Venice Commission, also refers to the criteria rule. Dear MPs, criteria were both the starting point and the only condition for proposing candidates for their first election as a public prosecutor. The proposed candidates also represent a significant rejuvenation of the prosecutor's organisation, as 88 new candidates represent a percentage of more than 20% of the total number of public prosecutors. We believe that the proposed candidates will be worthy of the public prosecutor's office, and as a guarantee of that, their work so far, as well as their results in their previous education and training, which were the basic criteria when they were proposed. That's how he predicted the criteria rule. From the proposed candidates, we expect full commitment to this call, permanent improvement and education and incompatibility of any kind of influence, whether political or any other kind. In addition, the similarity of candidates to perform such an important function will be checked after three years, when the State's major prosecutors reconsider their success in performing the prosecutorial post and when they will make a final decision on their permanent election. I will remind you that in this process, there is a decisive role to be played. I expect the rejuvenation of the prosecution, as well as the newly elected public prosecutor's office, to make a full contribution to the fight against organised crime and corruption and to engage with success in international investigative teams, which will certainly be the best confirmation of the success of this legislative reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34549	Thank you, Mr. Radovanovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Bosko Ristic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34550	President-in-Office, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I just want to say as chairman of the Committee on Justice and Management, that no candidate has been challenged on the Committee and that no member of the Committee has asked an MP on the Committee to deliver an opinion, in order to put a special vote on any candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34551	Thank you, Mr. Ristic. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34552	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives from the judiciary and the prosecution, judging by how this debate began, everything became clear. The moment I saw that the proposing representatives were applauded by the ruling majority for their presentation, it was a clear structure. Behind all that the proposing representatives have done, submitting this proposal to the Assembly, behind everything they have done in the re-election of judges, without any need to submit a proposal to the Assembly, because it is their job, apparently the will of the ruling majority and direct political influence on the choice of judges in this country, and prosecutors. That's what's obviously here, because anyone normal except for someone who belongs to the ruling majority, who obviously has a political need to protect what's going on here, wouldn't have thought to applaud these people who came out here for a pay phone. There's no reason for that. Now I'm going to explain why. If someone wants to have an independent judiciary in the state, then it is necessary that those bodies that participate in the creation of an independent judiciary and through the personal selection of judges and prosecutors, that they must act independently and have clear, open and public criteria for working. When there are no open, clear criteria and public criteria for the work that is done, then we come to a stage of obscenity that assures us once again in this country that we do not have an independent judiciary. Our long-standing drive to obtain an independent judiciary has been corrupted, above all, by the past law passed by the ruling majority, which has actually paved the way for the judicial clocking in Serbia, the decimation of judges and the finale of the event is happening these days. The finals of the event are this shameful proposal for a decision in front of the Serbian Parliament today on the selection of young prosecutors and young judges, young people, in terms of the start-up of office. Of course, we can't look back on what the High Court Council did when it comes to re-election of judges to their functions. What has been done there, on which the professional public and the general public know enough, casts not a shadow of doubt but a heavy and insurmountable shade and on a proposal for a decision now in front of our MPs in this assembly. How is it possible and I have to talk about it, that without having any personal relationship with the lady I'm going to talk about, because it's practical and I don't know, or having anything to do with my political party, nor do I know anyone at the DSS who knows her so well, that it would protect any personal interest, but how is it possible that the president of the Society of Judges won't be re-elected? How can Dragana Boljevic not be a judge? That's possible because he allegedly went off some criteria during the election process that was not clear, transparent before that, in which it was said, that, my God, that judge to whom someone in the immediate family is a lawyer, has a conflict of interest and cannot deal with a judicial function. Or maybe she's wrong. If there's something wrong with that woman, it's not right because it obviously bothers someone, so we're going back to the principle of political resemblance. Because someone who has been elected by fellow judges as president of the Society of Judges, with the number of internships behind him and the jobs she's been doing, doesn't deserve or isn't worthy of performing the judge's office, it's absolutely incomprehensible to me. There must be a very clear and loud argument why not her, but any of the 720 holders of the judicial functions are no longer where they should be or where they should not be, but that should be said openly and publicly. We don't have any of that here. In the papers obtained in the National Assembly, we don't even have a date of birth in the biography of those to be chosen. How can we believe any criteria of the High Council of the judiciary led by Nata Mesarovic, here present, and which is where thanks to you from the DS, because it is a well-known fact that it is a party judge? How is it possible to call here in front of us for any kind of criteria and objectivity when sitting in an organ that chooses her own son from the fourth court in the Supreme Court in Belgrade? Where is the conflict of interest, Mrs. Mesarovic? How is that possible? How can you applaud such a woman? How is it possible for the dead to come to this session, put this miracle on the agenda, without any sign of a question, without the Justice Committee calling the representatives of the judiciary and discussing suspicious matters, if nothing else? The connection between some of you and this ceramic that's going on here is not easy to prove. If I were to go out with firm facts about it now, I can't do it, but I can come out with confidence -- how is it possible that one body makes a proposal for the Serbian Parliament, how is it possible to re-election judges when it's in the back of the system? As possible, because there is no representative of the University of Belgrade in this body, i.e. Professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, any of the four that exist? How is it possible for someone who is in close contact with the MP, Bosko Ristic, to sit in that body? I'm talking about Dean Kiric. How is it possible for us to put our faith in the properness of decisions that have taken place on the agenda of the National Assembly? How is it possible for you to applaud all this? You should be ashamed of yourself. If you want an independent judiciary, this certainly isn't the way to do it. Of course, for the work of the High Council of the judiciary, none of you, nor the Government, nor the MPs, nor Serbian President Boris Tadic, who is your chief coach and trainer. No one to them is formally responsible for what's going on, but it doesn't take too smart to realize that there are informal channels through which all this is happening. This is what you call an iron broom in the judiciary. This is what you call the introduction of order. In that iron broom in the judiciary, although it's not the story of the first election, but I'll tell you, there are a number of judges you can find in their biography involved in the election theft process in 1996 and 1997. They're on the list of re-elected judges. Are these the people you trust? Instead of the opposition, rather than the ruling majority asking for their signatures the interpretation to discuss this, to call on the Minister of Justice, to discuss this matter in detail, valid and long enough, until it is discussed in this country and to see what we are going to do as a legislative body that needs to do something about this case, you are passing one wrong law earlier, so that in the whole process we can move forward and decide that, in principle, your rusty iron brooms, correct the wrong Drina and make a political similar judiciary. That's the cross-section you're making. That is not what the state of Serbia needs and that is not what the citizens of Serbia want. If you want to make this state a prosperous state, which you swear it is, you should make the judiciary truly independent, the judiciary should function so that every citizen of this country, any businessman, any domestic, any foreign, has confidence in our judicial system. How can I trust Nata Mesarovic? Congratulations on your son. Well done. It's good to be a judge. It's not bad that there are judges in the family by tradition. It's all right. The problem is, if you have one archaic for yourself, give it to others. If you challenge that archaic to others, then don't take it for yourself, no matter what it is. I'll see if I can get back to you later on, to take advantage of the next 10 minutes, although after this I don't think there's any need, but I'm standing at your disposal if anyone thinks or dares to go to a replica of what I said, to discuss this a little further and further.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34553	The word is Mrs. Nata Mesarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34554	I really think I'm surprised by the discussion of this Mr. MP from the DSS, simply because the High Council of the Judiciary is an independent body that has the right and the obligation to make the choice of judges. The decision on criteria to be applied during the election was not a secret and that was not a decision kept by the High Council unpublished. You could have known that decision. The decision has been previously made by the members of the board of directors of the Society of Judges, which you are now defending. I am very sorry that they thought that they would not come under the influence of the decision and that they would not be subject to the criteria for selecting judges. In addition, what is needed is expertise, and I see that for days since the election was announced, the number of cases has been commented, the High Council of the judiciary has had to take care of other criteria, which are the training and dignity of candidates. The law and decision set out and accurately spelled out what a candidate's dignity is. Please read it, unless you've read it before. As for the other criteria for individuals, I don't want to answer that question until every single person gets a decision on why he didn't go through with his choice by the High Council of Justice. You have to look at all the criteria, means the number, and the urgency, and the number of canceled items, and what's called honor and reputation of the judge and what's called perseverance, perseverance, etc. I'm very sorry I never really belonged to any political party. Maybe it was your party's wish to be their member, but I'm not. There's one more thing to tell you, my son, if you have something personal to object to, he's 13 years old, he's 24 years old. I'm not making excuses. You can ask yourself what kind of candidate he is. In fact, Vladimir Mesarovic is not the only son of some judicial function bearer and I see no reason why you are objecting to me. The second thing, Vladimir Mesarovic was elected at a time when the DSS had its own government and had a majority in this assembly. Therefore, you cannot object to me. One more thing I want to inform you, former Serbian Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic sent me a telegram of congratulations on my election, saying it was the right thing to do. I really don't know what else I'd like to explain to you, especially in that part that's not on the agenda today. Today, the Assembly is scheduled to elect a judge for a three-year term. That's where you lost your influence, and I'm sorry, the judiciary's been asking for it since 2000, to just decide its fate. Do you think someone has an evil intention to remove someone who is professional? As for the questions of the Society of Judges and their President, and there is a decision of the Supreme Court, of the Administrative Department, from three years ago, so unless you are informed of whether or not it is the President of the Society of Judges, please check it out and then report for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34555	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34556	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Mesarovic, Mr Radovanovic, I think that a member of the 27th Rules of Procedure has been injured about the work of the Assembly, Madam President, and you are responsible for that. If after 10 years we want to create basic preconditions for the normal judiciary in this country, then you must immediately end this kind of debate. No one here is obliged to account. Representatives of the judicial authority and legislative authorities are absolutely equal in a democratic order. If you expect us to offer arguments in this debate for which there was no time in previous discussions, when everything was to be discussed, then I have to say that both the wrong time and the wrong place. If the Assembly doesn't respect the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors, why anyone else to respect it? If we were to descend now to the mud we've been doomed to live on since we were born in this country, even if our MP group didn't agree, that we wouldn't quote here who the Legion was a gentleman, and the Special Court was supposed to destroy because they didn't think the Legion was a gentleman. So, please, let's get back to the agenda. So defined is the relationship between us that we are absolutely equal. If the subject is selected judges, then the debate must be held elsewhere and in a different atmosphere and there must be other people here. Here today we are discussing only the election, the entry into the office of the new judges. If anyone should respect these people, then we are obliged to show that respect. If you can't make it possible, stop this session, but don't humiliate those who decided to enter that den of justice to restore some order and dignity to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34557	I ask all MPs to stick to the agenda and take care of the level of this high house. Mr. Milos Aligrudic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34558	I won't pay attention to what I just heard...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34559	Excuse me, Mr. Aligrudic, Sreto Peric has advertised the Rules of Procedure, so I must give him my word before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34560	You've already given me your word, so let's wait for Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34562	So this is about criteria, and when we refer to a past event, which may not have anything to do with the jurisdiction of this home, we are talking about the credibility of the one who makes the criteria and who, by these criteria, makes the motion for a decision that lies before this home. That's what I said at the beginning. Then I challenged credibility. The independence of the judiciary in the system of state authorities does not mean that the elected national representatives are completely excluded from commenting on what a branch of government does, and that I do not speak by the Constitution and by law, the executive authority in the state, which is elected by this parliament, and directly this parliament, have the appropriate connection with that branch of government in an appropriate manner, as is seen in the regulations. What I'm trying to say here, when it comes to the answer that I got, when it comes to criteria, urgency, how it's possible that someone has 200 or 300 or over 300 items, such as Sonja Brkic, a member of the DS based on that and these merits, the president of RIK, can be coldly re-elected without people who have a higher frequency of the subject being. Anyway, it's probably about crossing those criteria that you mentioned. I didn't blame you for your son being a judge. There's a lot of it, you're right, and I don't mind. There are people who are esnafically, familyly engaged in law and do it in such a way and have certain merits, ambitions and desires and knowledge based on which they can judge and it is normal that at the time you speak of your son and elected judge. What's not normal here, that I resent you and that you're easily skipping, is the fact that you're in a body that re-elections your son. It deserves, in every normal order, the exemption from making a decision. That's not normal. I'm not saying it's anything else, it's not normal. Then I'm telling you, if you have any words of defense for such a thing, it's an honor to you, but then you and I don't live in the same reference system. You live on another planet, I live on Earth. That's a big difference between you and me, and that's what I wanted to tell you right now, and everything else you've said has nothing to do with my discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34563	Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34564	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I appeal to Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where the president of the National Assembly is said to care for the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly's working bodies. Please understand me correctly, so there could be compensation, because I've contacted Cedomir Jovanovic before, to talk about the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't matter. Just so you understand me correctly, weather. On December 21st, at 1:00 p.m., meetings of the Justice and Administration Committee were scheduled at 13.00 p.m. That was either timely or, let me say in good time, the representatives of the SRS, who are members of that committee. At 1:00 p.m., we were in a place designated for holding a session of the committee, but it was said that the sessions would be held during the break of that day. There was no break that day. The subsequent members of the Justice and Management Committee of the SRS were not informed. Therefore, for justified reasons, they could not even be present at the session, and they were thus deprived of their business right to exclude their opinion on these subjects. In 2009, not only will it remain remembered after a lecture on candidate for membership of the Republic of Serbia in the EU. She'll be remembered for the massacre that was made in the area of justice. We will discuss this more extensively when we talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34565	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure can only occur during the session. You, as an MP, have the right to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure immediately following the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure may be done by me. That's not how you've informed me so far. Of course, I'm going to take whatever it takes to see what's going on with all these allegations you've made, but de facto has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34566	Dear Presidents, honourable representatives of the High Council of the Judicial Council and the State Council of Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to members 101 and 104. First of all, here we are not discussing judges who have been re-elected to judge functions or prosecutors who are re-elected to these functions. Here on the agenda today we have a choice of judges who are first elected to these functions and the choice of prosecutors and deputies who are first elected to these functions. In that sense, I think it is necessary that during the debate, you make sure that everyone who speaks adheres to what is our subject, what we are discussing here today. I fully find it inappropriate and offensive for this Assembly and independent institutions that do a very important job and, ultimately, which ends with this vote in the Assembly ending an important cycle of reform, the fact that the parliamentary majority who supported the reforms in the judiciary, believing that they are the necessary assumption of the fundamental reform of society, that the need for citizens of Serbia is necessary, is the majority that supported the laws that this reform is being implemented, the majority that supported the formation of independent institutions that need to implement these reforms and the majority that will vote for the choice of judges and prosecutors who are first elected to these functions does not applaud an independent body that has done a huge and difficult job ahead of them. I believe that the whole of Serbia and I believe that most Serbian citizens applaud these bodies, supporting them and believing that they have done one extremely complex, extremely responsible and difficult job, a job that, for the result, I am sure, will have justice that will be more accessible to all, justice that will be faster and justice that will not be selective and also have institutions in the judiciary, which will not be subject to political influences, that we have had experience in the past. That's why I think it's only true that Mr. Aligrudic said it was his belief, and there's no fact about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34567	Right on the line, Mr. Bosko Ristic. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: according to the Rules of Procedure. You're in the Rules of Procedure? You still have to let me know that he's the Rules of Procedure, so I know. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34568	Last time I made it clear to Mrs. Komic, she gave me a warning. Agree on how you'll run the sessions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of the Assembly, you have said a matter that is not true about the presentation of Sreta Periæ and the invitation to the Rules of Procedure. I will remind you and call on Article 1 where it is precisely said: "this Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the rights and duties of the Members of Parliament are exercised. Madam Chairman, when someone calls on the Rules of Procedure, they don't just have to call for a breach of procedure. He also refers to his rights, and the board member has certain rights. First of all, that right implies being invited to the Committee's session. What is particularly problematic when it comes to committees and committee work, no matter what you swear, is that your goal is to move a good part of the debate into committees, it's just declarative. You in any way avoid discussing on committees the things that should be before the debate in the Serbian Parliament and best show facts about the lack of quorum, so it became a rule in almost all committees, and the lack of quorum is, among other things, largely dependent on MPs of the ruling majority. Yesterday's and yesterday's committee are particularly specific because our MPs have lost their ability to exclude the opinion and the right to report on this matter today and on this basis, and you are going beyond that as if nothing had happened and you are completely twisting the fact that it is extremely important here, that someone deliberately obstructs the work and does not allow MPs to participate in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34569	In fact, you have violated the Rules of Procedure by speaking for the second time about the same content as your colleague Sreto Perić, you cannot speak on the same subject twice. That's the first one. Secondly, you know that the breach of the Rules of Procedure actually refers to the procedure. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I have called on Article 1.) There are ways to point out any irregularities in the work of congregation bodies, both written and oral, of course, and before the session, and you know it well. Please don't abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I am looking for a dictionary statement in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34570	Article 104. Mrs. Dejanovic, I would ask you to tell me what's in the Rules of Procedure, to read it to me. Your interpretation can be relevant to you, it can also be for the one who is subfling, but I would ask you, and, among other things, today the theme of the session is the way something needs to work, so I would ask you to say what you say is in the Rules of Procedure, or it's enough for you to just call yourself and tell the Rules of Procedure, to interpret and to end it. Please, what you said isn't true. What does not appear in the Rules of Procedure cannot be applied. It may be your discretionary right, but it's turned into a discriminatory right. You insult the elemental intelligence of the MPs. Please, if you want the Assembly to work in accordance with certain norms, this is the norm that prescribes how to work and if you tell me that I have broken the Rules of Procedure, then read me where I have the right to report only and only if the procedure is violated. Among other things, there has been a breach of procedure here, because by procedure the board members had to receive an invitation, whether in writing or verbally, by the relevant officials of the Republika Srpska Assembly, it is irrelevant, but they had to, and it is obvious that they did not. Explain to me how we can point it out and make sure things don't end the way it ended. Eated a donkey wolf. The session was held, so how do we know if she had a quorum? She didn't have a quorum. How long do you think you're doing this?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34571	So it's about article 100. In writing, I'll let you know so you can analyze it. Mr. Bosko Ristic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34572	President-in-Office, representatives of the promoters, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the right to the replica, given that I have been called by Mr Aligrudic by name and name, but have been told by other MPs of some of the untruths I wish to refer to. First of all, I would like to say that the High Council of the Judiciary is an independent state body guaranteeing the independence and independence of judges in the exercise of judicial duty and that it only works in accordance with the Constitution and the law, completely independent of any influence. It is incorrect that the body is illegal and incorrectly expressed the fact that Mr. Dejan Ciric, representative of the lawyerry, is my best man. It is a harsh lie, not to say another Serbian word and I would ask Mr Aligrudic to check his allegations and expect an apology at the time and in the way Mr Aligrudic considers it appropriate. First of all, we're doing one very important thing here, and it's obvious that there are no arguments about the quality of the candidates that are proposed here, but it's trying to turn the subject into another field that isn't the subject of this debate. It is incorrect that the members of the committee were not invited to a session to discuss the candidate's proposal, because you, Madam President, said during the voting day that immediately after the vote was concluded in Hall 2 a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration will be held and there will be a television video of it. If those who did not want to take part in the vote and were elsewhere outside the Assembly did not follow this, it is their personal matter, but you have in one of the allowed and envisaged ways informed all members of the board that they can attend and participate fully in the meetings of the Committee for Justice and Administration. So that's a lie, too. It is true that this committee held a session without quorum, which is a stenographic note, there is a phonograph record and there is a record that is adopted at the next session of the Committee on Justice and Administration. It is common and the most common phenomenon that individual members of individual parties do not want to take part in the work of the Justice and Administration Committee and then do so their right not to participate in such discussions on the tide. One more thing I would like to say, this time as an MP and president of the Committee on Justice and Administration, and at the same time as a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which is that the High Council of the Judiciary is doing everything according to the Rules of Procedure, which has been adopted and published on the site and in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, and in this Rules of Procedure, a single member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary cannot take part in the vote if it is in conflict of interest. In any case, whenever it comes to an individual who in any way can be associated with a member of the High Council, that High Council member leaves the High Council session during the vote, on which there are records from the High Council session and anyone can seek through a competent institution that provides the availability of information of public importance to obtain such information. I urge that we deal with the subject and the quality of the candidate, not the false.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34573	Mr Dragan Todorovic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34574	I'm advertising Article 77. What Mr. Bosko Ristic said absolutely does not match the work of the Rules of Procedure. You have a 3rd position, Article 77, where you say, "The committee session call contains the day, time and place of session and a draft agenda." The elemental thing is that if the Assembly works, it works after the vote, at least for the MPs of the SRS. We know it doesn't apply to you. Your role is to come to give the quorum, to vote, and after that, where my dear lawyers with purses in courts solve their problems, others on the other side, and SRS MPs remain in the Assembly to work on the agenda. Therefore, it is not true that the call was made and the story that after the vote, I do not believe, Mrs Dejanovic, that you personally would violate the Rules of Procedure, how you can invite MPs not to attend the session of the RS Assembly and do something else. Therefore, it is not true that MPs were invited, they could only be invited to a break when the work in the RS Assembly was suspended. Since the work was not interrupted for the MPs of the SRS, they were not invited, and it was done on purpose. Now I'm totally convinced, just because of this situation that's happening, that they wouldn't be able to single out their opinions and say what they have on this agenda point. I would ask you, Mrs Dejanovic, because you are right among the equals and you are invited to coordinate your work and to insist on working on the Rules of Procedure, to draw attention to all committee presidents in the future to keep the Rules of Procedure exclusively in their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34575	Word by Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic The word is Milos Aligrudic, a replica. [[Milos Aligrudić, from the site: I was looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34576	For clarification. So, as far as this personal finding is concerned, which I told you about the possible or alleged best man's connections between Mr. Ristic and Dejan Ciric, there is nothing left for me but to trust Mr. Bosko Ristic. It's just that he can't do anything else. The man says, they're not in that relationship, then they're not, then I had a misinformation. Anyway, even if they were, this word we heard here is stronger than anything else. I have one more thing to say in response to what Mr. Ristic said alluding to my discussion, which is next. Is the body illegal today proposing this decision from the National Assembly? Not only is the body illegal, it's illegal, because it's not complete. As soon as you don't have those members of that body who are legally required to be members of that body, such as when it comes to law professors with representatives of the University of Belgrade and the law school in Serbia, then you don't have a closed system. A body like that can't decide. There is no analogy with other bodies of this type, such as, say, the Constitutional Court, where you have an explicit provision that speaks of that body being able to decide fully with two-thirds of the elected members. This body cannot decide unless it has been selected to the end. It is abnormal to discuss in the National Assembly today a proposal that we have on the agenda, and the proposal has obviously come from bodies that have no formal capacity to decide. I'm sorry, you might want to do it all the way you normally do it in the country, you do it with this, but it just doesn't work that way. The president of parliament was to return this proposal for formal reasons and say, excuse me, you agree and gather and submit a proposal for the National Assembly to choose who should be elected, and then you will work afterwards. It's the responsibility of the ruling majority. It can't be the responsibility of the opposition or me talking about it. How you're going to close this structure now and how you're going to answer me and tell me how it's actually okay and who's cutting off a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, that's your problem. It has nothing to do with the legal order in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34577	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34578	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs Mesarovic, Mr Radovanovic, is responsible for the atmosphere in parliament for those who make and those who have come to parliament. If something useful is from this debate, it's actually a crystal clear picture of the state in which our country is located. The ruling majority is always responsible for that. Mrs. Kolundjia, you are practically the only representative of that ruling majority we can address. What is more important for the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, as justice minister, which is more important for the president of the Republic at the moment than the elections and the debate that follows the election of judges of the Serbian judiciary. Yesterday, we highlighted our EU membership bid. That candidacy is making us bound to something. First of all, it's a completely different relationship to society. In fact, no one expects this government to solve all the problems that exist in Serbia. This government must show its ability to put itself differently against these problems. To bring society into the process of solving these problems, to explain the importance of some decisions that must be made. How will we, Mrs. Kolundzija, be in the EU, and yesterday we highlight the candidacy if half of your ruling coalition thinks there is no genocide in Srebrenica? If only the DS and two or three other ruling coalitions have the strength to adopt the European Parliament resolution, so when we highlighted yesterday's EU bid, we said we were ready to mark that unfortunate July and 11 July as the day of the Srebrenica victims. We've committed to respecting some order in the country, who isn't there, who wasn't there yesterday, and he's gone today, we have to create him. It is not true that no one has tried to create an independent judiciary in this country. We were naive, so we believed it in 2000, so we suggested to the Judges' Association that the Judges' Association be granted power in the country to candidates for President of the Supreme Court, District Court, Prosecutors, etc. We got the Supreme Court president who had more understanding for the assassins of the Prime Minister and his need to support his family than for the police who were desperate for any evidence that could come up with the arguments necessary for the processing of those who later committed the murder of the Prime Minister. Her deputy called it a waitout for the Serbian judiciary. Vladan Batic, who is not here today, is lynched for reading the names of judges who do not deserve to be judges in the Serbian judiciary. They had a district court president who refused to form special departments of the district court to fight organised crime, 100 judges were replaced by an emergency decision, decreed practically. It was the only way to start the process of changes that were practically suspended in that part of the government, although there was an alleged democratic shift on October 5, 2000. That is why it is much more important for us at this time who comes to the Serbian judiciary, who remains in it, than the question of who left the judiciary. That's the point. Clearly, there's nonsense here. How one senseless congregation has the right to teach anyone else lessons. The assembly that brings together the debate, 25 within one, which plays its own rules of procedure, the assembly that is held at one of the most important meetings of the Justice Committee... Mr. Ristic, so resign. You resign, because we can't replace you, there's more of you, and that doesn't mean you're right. My academy professor would tell you that democracy is a system where three half-intelligent men can outvote two wunderkinds. I don't agree with that, but resign. It is the least you can do after the finding that the president called by reading three hours of amendments, members of the law, objections to the Rules of Procedure, and by the way, she said, come after the vote at a committee meeting that will introduce you to people who need to take over the conduct of the Serbian judiciary. It's a special session. You could have called every member personally. It is an honor to invite us as head of Parliament to come there, to make an event out of it. Why wasn't that done? As the ruling coalition settles, while testing the threshold of sensitivity and the High Council of the judiciary and the Greater Prosecutors, there is no room for this kind of thinking in this difficult way. I only hope that there will be enough strength among those chosen, and those who deserve that choice, to continue the work that has been started and which is needed in this country. We have no reason to play here and hide. The idea of starting justice reform is the most significant political decision that has been made since 5 October 2000, much more significant than yesterday's decision on EU membership bid. We'll never get to that Europe unless we change ourselves. Do I need to remind you of the shameful convictions of the assassins of the Ibar highway? It wasn't proven that he was working his cell phone at the time. That's never been spoken of, and that's what you should talk about, Mr. Ristic, not that you're laying your birthright here right now, whether someone's your best man or not. What do you care what Aligrudic says to you, but come and tell us whether it is true that some rulings have been changed in the Supreme Court office because it was obvious that it was corruption, an attempt to bring down democratic power. What did the trial of the murderers of Ivan Stambolic look like? In what atmosphere has this debate been discussed in front of the Supreme Court? What were we able to hear from the Supreme Court judges about the country's most radical criminals? Who has been filling newspapers across Serbia with plots of allegedly planted evidence for one of the most monstrous crimes in our history. I'm talking about the murder of a former president of this country who was kidnapped, kidnapped, tied up, taken to a mountain, bound to death by a bullet in the back of the head, thrown into a cretin pit. The Supreme Court has shown more understanding for this than anyone else in this country. The Supreme Court has made such a policy and politics must have the strength to free it from its presence. Of course we're bothered with the choice of some judges, but we're probably in the way of the judges, too. How can we have understanding for judges who were actors of electoral theft? How can the judges understand us who, meanwhile, are making coalitions with the parties that organised these electoral thefts. Are you in a coalition with that Nish-loving mustache, Mr. Ristic? What's his name, Professor? Mr. Ilic. That's the man who took the whole Nis to the streets. Meanwhile, after 12 or 13 years, he became a coalition partner of the DS. With that logic, then the judge who gave in under pressure 13 years ago is counting on the same right for himself. That's what this is about. That's why it took the Prime Minister and the Justice Minister here, all of them to first try to offer society an apology, at least on their own behalf and for what they did, for what the policy has done to Serbia for the past 20 years. The Prime Minister of Australia apologized for a crime against the natives 300 years ago. A representative of the government could appear who would say both to society and those who were the institutions of that society, and in the meantime were destroyed, we apologize for what we didn't do, have done others before us from the positions we are in today, so we are obliged from this place to return what is necessary to ensure that these institutions are dignified and fair. Legitimity. How can the Constitutional Court be legitimate when a constitutional appeal is filed against the Statute, and it lacks people as well as all other institutions in the country? Because it's conscious like that. We refused, and Nikolic from the Progressive Party was radically involved in a conversation in which we were offered to propose our judges to the Constitutional Court. That's what the DS and DSS coalition used to do, every once in a while. What Constitutional Court did we get? At least it's the ones who are in it. We warned you that you should choose a representative of the law school. This is not what the ruling coalition wanted, not members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. That's what we asked to do. You are responsible for this, so now you defend those people who have decided to be Serbian judges and help them, not by compromising them further. We have a list of judges who would argue that we can, but it's not in our jurisdiction, and those who took over the right to run and propose have also taken responsibility. I hope that they will have more understanding of this kind of responsibility than the executive authority, the one that would be in Europe, and that this is the kind of Serbia that remains today. It is clear in the proposals of the new judges that some criteria are respected, but it is obvious that these criteria are largely burdened by the way the re-election of judges and some solutions that have been left without reason, often because something cannot be explained. We all know very well what kind of justice it was. It is largely a picture and politics of what it has done to the Serbian judiciary. If we want it to be better, we have to change. There is no judge who can make the Serbian judiciary better if politics does not have the willingness to allow such a thing. Interpletion has been mentioned as an opportunity to challenge individual judges, and this is in democratic order something that is completely legitimate and allowed. It's just a very important goal of this interpretation, whether it's tolerated with persuasion or a desire to draw attention to a failure that has been made or with an ambition to consciously exploit one circumstance to compromise the whole process. I don't want to compromise the process initiated by the formation of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. What we all need to do together is simply bring our role down to the one that is within the framework of the law, and then strictly respect for that law. You, Mr. Ristic, didn't do it here in Parliament. You did not allow those you were obliged to do so, normal participation in the affairs that were carried out here in parliament, and I think it is more because of your weakness than because of the fact that the process of freeing the Serbian judiciary would thus be compromised. I took note that the Venice Commission, and then the Council of Europe gave a positive opinion on the criteria, that they criticised the Constitution and constitutional solutions and the positions of our judiciary and that you are wrong, Mr Radovanovic, when you say the profession has made the choice. You know very well how to become a prosecutor in Serbia. You're being proposed by the government. Of course, there is an important profession, but more important is a kind of political will. Since our example speaks of how those who have unspeakable faith pass by, I think some have learned from that lesson in the meantime, and so have you been part of that picture, but I will not burden our mutual relations with this debate and your relationship with some people who, I may say, have been victims, if not you personally then your willingness to give in to the pressures of those who are supposed to be fighting for an independent judiciary today. This is still a big step for our society. I remind you to think about the chaos in which we lived and all that we have left after October 5th, the one that should not have touched for the past nine years, the Supreme Court before which we left in 2009 as at the time of Seselj's Information Act when it went before the criminal judge, Vukichev. We are prepared to do everything that one opposition parliamentary party can to continue the process of democratisation of society, to protect the judiciary, other independent institutions. We have the State Auditing Institution, the Republic Broadcasting Agency, the Ombudsman, the trustees, all of them are practically doing their job partly right now because of the political disciplines that are suffocating them. It is our duty to bring that freedom back to life. As for these judges who made it through the Socialists, Palm and PUPS, we will make sure that in a different, normal atmosphere in accordance with the law and the Constitution, we have debated what they were doing. We assure the citizens that the ruling coalition will not be able to stop and prevent it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34579	Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are to attend a session where the promoters of the head will explain their proposal. I know there's a situation in life when you're facing a choice of whether to do something or keep what you have or start a whole new path where there's a lot of denial and struggle. Approximately, all of you who have proposed and who will vote for this have chosen the easy way. The easy way is not always an honorable way. Going the easy way means someone before you had to get on that road to get hurt. Easier times mean that something has been prepared, that something has become good, so now it's just fortifying itself, and you're going to make a mess in the country. One of the most honorable functions in the country, a judge's function, which is why you, too, who I am looking at here, I appreciate, have not just come to that function, has not been sent by anyone from heaven, you make that function unworthy for those you choose and for those you will not. Those whom you will not choose, you will say that they were not chosen because they were not obedient. Those whom you choose will have a seal that they were obedient. You didn't want to release the judges of that seal, neither. There are nuns on one side and on the other. There are bad guys on one side and the other. If this congregation already interferes with the choice of judges, why did you not give it a chance to choose who you proved wrong? Why didn't you give her a chance to pick the one you proved right? Chaos is in the judiciary and you know it well. Will you ever remove it again? I don't think so. Because since October 5th, from crisis headquarters to today, you have changed the composition of all courts three times and individually all judges in these courts. You've reached the bottom, no more judges. You can wait outside the law school for the kids and get them into court. Good judges and lawyers have been dissolved before and bear the mark that for dictatorial authority, they have been accused of being judged by law and therefore not worthy of function, but are also dissipated in your time by the ones you chose. Now you've moved from DOS to Windows. Now you will begin to lead Serbia today, and the whole of Europe is disgusted by what we are doing in the judiciary today. I don't want to accuse anyone, any judge at all, that he's not worthy. I'm accusing the quotas of a party. You're making party justice out of a party state. Let them tell you those who aren't in the O.R. which is their quota. Who got the right to 250 judges to propose? Who got the right to 600 judges to propose? Have you, who present to us today these laws, been chosen for your will and for the mercy of the lords of this country? I think so. I have nothing against you and I need no judge, no prosecutor in Serbia. Who lives and works according to the law, what will the judge and prosecutors do to him if he has justice? We kind of made a commitment to this, we call it, the space justice in Strasbourg. How many people are going to apply in Strasbourg to correct these judges' mistakes? What about their positively resolved demands? Is the reorganisation of the judiciary really just designed to get rid of judges who want to judge only by law and not mean party function and party membership? If that's what you're thinking, it's not gonna work. These decisions of yours won't be so easy to change. That's why you should have thought this through. Every bad judge you choose today, or these days, is on your soul, or prosecutor, on your soul, because you have met them all from April to this day. You've assessed who's unworthy to perform a judicial function, incompetent and incompetent. You've assessed who this new man is worthy of. Everything that happens in the judiciary is on your soul. You have a name and a last name. One day, don't go behind party wills, but say, yes, it's my fault, I suggested it, nobody told me, I suggested a bad man, I kicked out a good man, because he ruled there or because he didn't judge someone there, because he was chasing someone or because he wasn't chasing someone there. You've made a great commitment. This composition of the congregation that will help you in doing so will be changed in a few months and are mostly anonymous people. They won't know them on the street that they chose judges. We're exposing ourselves from the opposition, we're talking about all this. Those of the ruling majority, they just come to vote. They don't have a burden of responsibility, they have some other purpose. Their goal is to stay in power as long as possible, to use the privileges they have today. My goal is to separate you from the party influence, absolutely separate, that you solve your problems as part of the profession. Yes, we're a little under your command, we're interfering with your choices, but if it's done honestly and honestly, if your proposals are respected, what would that be? Remember, today you are the ruling majority. You'll think about it every day, you'll have in your head a self-censorship if you're still at their will. Each of your future convictions, each of your future indictments will be conditioned by thinking about whether or not you are still at their will. So, they write, you're just professional to explain it. They'll invite you. They'll say -- now go on this, now go on that one. Don't go on this one, don't go on that one. You'll just explain it. If I were you, I'd ask what happened to the other colleagues who didn't choose the National Assembly. The law needs to be interpreted as it is imagined. If a member of the state's senior attorney's office is proposed, how come the law doesn't get the Assembly to choose him? That proposal is also a choice for a lawyer. The assembly can only determine that he was elected on a proposal for attorneyship. No, the ruling majority rejects the proposals, waiting for this moment when there will be no one in that council of lawyers. How come the Assembly is entitled not to elect a professor of law school if it is proposed by law school, who are authorized to propose it? What is involved in this proposal? So you wouldn't be elected until the judge's election. After that, what's that man doing? What's he doing after that? This was your only serious job. You've been doing it since April. The question is, did you have any other items besides getting to know a thousand or something judges or less than a thousand? It doesn't matter. This is where the state of emergency was mentioned. When it has been assessed whether it has been introduced in accordance with the Constitution, then the current Constitution? Never. Why not? We used to have 310 MPs here with the will of the ruling majority. Why has the Constitutional Court never assessed the proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of those decisions? It didn't fit the ruling majority. You will face, ma'am, the ruling majority, with one wall standing in front of the judiciary. You can't break that wall, because you've wiped out hundreds of honest people with rubber for no reason. So I don't speak to you individually. They're reporting to everyone in a row. Now these opposition parties are going to get a top-notch bar. These are the people whose existence is completely compromised. The husband and wife of 20 years in the judiciary, Your Honor, none will be re-elected. Where's he going? On the street. They've devoted their whole life to justice. I wish you'd come here and said that-- that and that did it and that, wronged the Criminal Code, about the Code of Prosecution, about anything, and let's get rid of it. You're putting us here as a general in front of a choice of 400 people, 500 people out of work, and some new people come in here, some honest and similar, moral-political-like. I wouldn't participate in being a representative of the ruling majority. I would not participate in the fact that Danica Marinkovic is not elected judge. The one who's been investigating Račka. Is that her minus? Is that her lack? Which, under the bullets, proved that everything was a farce and a set-up. Did anyone ever order you to leave that widow with two children without a job? I would not vote that in Kosovo, Mitrovica, no judge who now judges in the Serbian court will be re-elected to bring those who co-operate with Eulex and judge with him. I wouldn't do it, my cheek wouldn't let me, so let the ruling majority throw me out. When it comes to whether you belong to someone or have a cheek, decide where you're going to keep your cheek. It usually turns out that those who thought you wouldn't keep face after that disappear and fail, because people can appreciate people who fight. Life without a fight doesn't make sense. I'd really like you to stand out as the highest part of this country, incomparable, as a citadel within the fortress, impregnable -- attack all you want, but you can't win me. We're solid and we don't let you get involved in what we're doing, because we decide people's lives. There's no death penalty, but when you give him enough credit, you decide on his life and his children, and you have to be absolutely convinced that you've done an honorable deed, that you can sleep at night. This isn't good. He's getting ready in the afternoon. Europe will keep you quiet, although it would have a lot to say in front of this chaos, in front of this wind that blows the judges away. It's been nine years since Milosevic's judges. It's no excuse that they're judges from the former regime. These are the judges from your regime, DOS. Were they really so dishonest and unprofessional and unworthy of judge functions? Do you know how many verdicts they've made? Now, can the one convicted by the people you claim to be unworthy today, and convicted ten, fifteen, two days, two months or three, say that his sentence is no longer valid? He was tried by an unworthy judge. You wiped out people who decided in the highest degree on the right of a man to be tried justly, to give him a fair judgment. What are we? So we were protected from that Supreme Court. Why did you lie to us for nine years to have full protection, protection against the unworthy and unprofessional? What do we do now with these items? Should we wait for these worthy and skilled to start working, so we can talk to them? This should have taken place in another way, to convince the MPs, as well as the public of Serbia, who is limited in front of what is happening, to make sure that the one who is not proposed, that he really does not deserve to be proposed. There's no new employment by firing workers. Now you're newly employed in the judiciary, and you're firing people from the judiciary. What does every one of them wear now, a stamp that wasn't professional or a stamp that he was a thief? Since there is no third cause for his shift, for his resolution, for his disselection. He goes down the street as a former judge who tried criminals, who now meets him on the street because they've been halved, got out of jail. He is unworthy of this man whom he has judged, that is, this criminal. This one has no sign of unworthyness, only the judge has a mark of unworthyness. They're all your colleagues. You may love each other or not love each other, but these are your colleagues, their fate is your destiny. Maybe one of them sat there one day in front of us and explained the same proposal and thought it was now for all time. I know you, ma'am, know who I mean. He thought it was for all time and now he's chosen by the DOS and now he's the emperor. DOS, gentlemen, here are these gentlemen lawyers who decide all that, and DOS decides to choose someone else, this is what makes them unworthy. I wish he could say thank you, you did a good job, no, you're unworthy. So whoever serves him one day becomes unworthy. After all, everyone who serves is unworthy even while serving, let alone when he no longer pleases the master. We are completely bitter at this point of the agenda, on these suggestions, we are absolutely against it, to the extent that if you have a quorum we will come to vote against, to prove to you how much we are against it, and you will then consider all the sins that are transferred to you by the current power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34581	Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34582	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, in their discussions, they're extending this subject a little bit. Today it's about putting an end to the letter of 'I' when it comes to judicial reform. I'm asking one question, I'm going to give an answer very soon, so there's no dilemma. Is the SRS for judicial reform? Yes, it is, and not today, but throughout its existence, it has seen irregularities in the justice system and wants it to change. Is this the way? It's not. We will try on the basis of the provisions of the Constitution to bring down the full concept of reform in the judiciary, if possible, to prove that this is neither the right time nor the best way. I will speak directly to only one gentleman, Jovanovic, and I will no longer, because my intention is not to make a difference with him, but to tell about other things. Mr. Jovanovic, we are in favour of changing some judges who are unworthy, unprofessional, are not moral. You were nine years old or you were three years old when the momentum was the strongest and strongest. Did you do anything? You have worked ineffectively and unfairly, as you are doing today. I must start with the provisions of the Constitution, no, Mrs Mesarovic, because of you and not because of Radovanovic, it is well known to you. You've made a series of mistakes and failures, I can't say it was all conscious. We know well where she started the initiative to elect and appoint judges, prosecutors and other legal holders, but we do it because of the professional public and we do it because of those candidates who were in this system of elections, which may not have passed or passed, but not deserved. The topic of my interest is legal norms and regularity and legality and legitimacy of certain state authorities when implementing this reform, and if I mention some names, they aim only to indicate a certain phenomenon, and not to deal with them in particular. When you want to talk about this topic, the Constitution has to be a basic platform. I quote Article 142(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – Courts are independent and independent in their work and judge by virtue of the Constitution, laws and other general acts when provided for by law, general rules of international law and approved international agreements. There is no man as a factor that can command or order anything, exclusively the Constitution and the law and international agreements that are legally recognised. Once again, I mention that we are both for reform and for the fundamental independence of the courts, of course, and prosecutors. Article 144, paragraph 1 - President of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary, shall be elected by the National Assembly, in the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the Competent Board of the National Assembly. It is, Mrs. Mesarovic, you and you know that there is one assumption missing from here, that your choice would be legal. I am now interested in whether, when you are elected Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court, you will be re-elected as its president, because there is now the possibility of realising the assumption set out in Article 144(1). The Constitution, or you won't? If you do not, then it remains for all time while you are the president of that highest judicial authority in Serbia. Article 146. The Constitution says – the judge's office is permanent. Extraordinary, the first person to be elected judges is elected for three years. This is something that has caused a great controversy, not today, not since the time of the opening of the competitions by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, but as the reform of the justice system began to be discussed. So the judge's office is permanent both with respect and with the obligation to comply with this standard set out in Article 146. The constitution could be reformed by Serbia's judiciary. If it had started in 2001, that it had started later, it could have been done, as other countries have done in an environment that has already joined the EU. We know what the Venice Commission said about the composition of the Supreme Judiciary Council. We pointed out this before it was on the agenda of this committee and it is not binding for us, because we see these problems and shortcomings in the country where we live. It's really inadmissible, and we have to agree with LDP representatives, that neither the president of the state nor the prime minister or president of the Judges' Society is here today, because we are still talking about a very important topic. In this room sits a large number of lawyers, some were once judges, some were lawyers, so Roman law is not studied at law schools just because of the institutes we need for our further education, but because of the country's attitude towards the citizens. Do we today have, in particular, the executive power in the Republic of Serbia, a proper and correct attitude towards our citizens? There isn't. If there were, this topic would be much more important and no initiatives would be launched from the municipal boards, before all DS. I'll let you know, and you check it out. A man who has not competed at the High Court in Šapec has been elected in the Supreme Court. It's not a very large court, there aren't many judges, but you check it out. It is the telling of candidates, either now or from January 1st, of a man who will be the judge of the Supreme Court in Šapec. But there's something else symptomatic about that court. From now on, 13 judges, in the District Court, three, two or three have been elected, and the others, counting on the president, I have no intention of defending any people here individually and personally, especially since in such a short time it was not possible to check everything, but yet seven judges not to be elected at all, it points to something. Just to remind you, I think this story will also make sense on this subject, when Mosha Piyade was an eyewitness to an accident, the judge came to his office to take a statement as a witness. He said - Your Honor, call me, give me an invitation to come to the courtroom to give a statement. What applies to every Serbian citizen should apply to me. It is not this man's ideology that enters mere need for the respect of the justice system, especially when the Constitution defines that the judiciary is separate and independent from the executive, or politics. That's absolutely incorrect. There's never been more political interference than there is today. You can disagree with me, it's your right and you can't convince me that of the 1,351 judges you've already chosen, that the High Council of the Judiciary could have had a certain analysis. Avoiding applying for a contest puts numbers, which is the regular number of applications received, what you say is not true, avoiding putting up numbers has already indicated that there will be something dishonest about selecting judges. Why? Because if you wanted to go through it all, you might have intended it, but you didn't have the authority. When I say you, I'm not just thinking about you, I'm thinking about that organ at all, because it would take time, maybe by the end of next year, that this could all be done. Take, at least for those you watched, how much time you needed, and somewhere there were about 6,000, there's no real record of how many candidates there were, but the initiatives came from the municipal boards. Do you want another case, where one of my men was elected judge, absolutely claimed that when his results were taken into account, 22% of the fulfillment of the norm, a very small percentage of confirmed decisions by the Greater Court, but he honestly admitted to me – I have no chance of being elected, but is strongly tied to DS. He was also a member of the party at the time, and he passed. These are all data that leave bitter taste in the mouth for those who have not passed, and certainly deserve to be the bearers of this very important function. A good judge can't become a judge for a short time, and you've given up, not help, it's not helping you, it's the need for the state to have quality judges, those who are really at the top, in the system of professionalism, profession, knowledge and desire to judge by law and constitution and nothing else. I must state the apology of the Đuric family, the late Judge Đuric is elected judge of the basic court in Požega, you will say – technical error. To accept that it's a technical mistake, it's a little painful for the family. I apologize to them once again, but there are many such and similar mistakes, not with that status, but when it comes to defining the quality of judges or prosecutors. We have grades for professional associates. That's where the one with 183 points or points fought, anyway. He passed, and the one who had 242 didn't pass. This isn't made up. This is something that is real and I don't want to mention names, not that the SRS doesn't want to talk openly about this problem, but that may be individual cases and that we don't qualify them as some general phenomenon here. But all of this has to go to the High Council of the Judiciary. I belong to those lawyers who, responsibly and with a modest professional call, and I claim that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors could not make decisions at this time because it is not legal and legitimate. What do you mean, it's not? The constitution predicted exactly how many they had, and he said 11 members and the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors and sorted it by structure, if we can say so, from which spheres these members should be. Now someone's going to say, maybe the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, that's what he said, and last time the stake was a similar topic on the agenda, so politics has no impact. What do you mean, it's gone? It's got a huge impact. Perhaps one of you sitting in the High Council of the Judiciary or the State Council of Prosecutors is not formally a member of a party, but thanks to a particular party, right there. That's what the Venice Commission resented and said there was a possibility of creating an unofficial, one corrupt body from there. Because these people will not participate, or put themselves in a more favourable position than others. If, in particular, we have in mind that both bodies have a minister of justice, the President of the Supreme Court or later of the Cassation Court, the Republic Public Prosecutor, does not have to be political figures, but sits down as chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee. At that moment, which was defined by the Constitution and he said that by office, that a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, was the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Assembly Committee of the National Assembly. When it was known that this man who is president, by the way and a lawyer, then the majority of parliament, and above all DS, was to launch the initiative, to change Bosko Ristic. For what? It's incompatible, a man deals with law enforcement and works all the time as an active lawyer, from the moment he's a MP, today and tomorrow, and he'll be working on a man, and no one can forbid him, and then someone else should have been elected as chairman of that committee. Now, if you say so - it would be good if the president of that committee were a lawyer, because the judge can't be chosen. It's not good to have a situation like this. I remember in time that the chairman of the committee was Dr. Zarko Obradovic for a short time who, I think, is a politician, not a graduate lawyer at all, does not mean that the committee worked less well. Now you stay and see one thing, in Nis 15 lawyers are elected to court, and 22 judges are out of a job. There is a reasonable doubt that someone sitting in the Council of the High Court could have had an impact on that. Now you can dispute everything alive, as you dispute, and there is no more influence of politics on the choice of judicial holders. I claim to you through the High Council of the Judiciary and through the State Council of Prosecutors there are more than ever before. So far, 250 MPs, of course, that every municipality doesn't have its own representative here, but 80% or 70% have, and when it comes to the agenda, the choice of judges and prosecutors could have been discussed. Don't realize this that we're trying to get it back into the National Assembly, but we could bring out certain things, because what it means to someone today is that we don't accept it, we don't agree. If we choose someone here, and among other things, we choose judges for violations, and if someone tells me, maybe fellow Puric can get to that information about who Zoran Mitrovica is, then let's do it for him. You have no idea, we don't have any data, they don't accept SRS MPs to be jukeboxes here, we get a name, and then we say yes or maybe not. If the National Assembly has the right to decide something, then the biographies should be there, and you will see it here, for prosecutors, that is, the deputy prosecutor has it, and there are no judges. There are no judges who choose for the first time, no judges for the offenses. They are also elected for the first time, in that proposal received by the National Assembly, there is no such thing. We have a few more problems that will arise during this period and you are probably sometimes, when you talk informally, you tell yourself – we believe that we will end up in this period. You guys are gonna finish something. If that's good, I'm telling you it's not good, and you, not to us, we're not asking you to admit it again in that place where you're sitting that you're wrong. What is today the fate of retired pilot Stanko Ristic, who is in custody for the second time and has been in custody for four months and two or three days ago was supposed to be a trial, but the chairman of the council has not been admitted, the prosecutor has also not been admitted, there will be no further prosecutor and they have said - the sequel may be in a month. Why do we think that the best should be the bearers of judicial and prosecutorial functions? Because they decide something called freedom, and freedom has nothing to do with it, it has no price. One day in prison, you saw when we had on the agenda the Law of Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Infraction, which is foreseen in the litigation procedure, one day in prison is worth 1,000 dinars, but freedom is worth a lot more than that, and we, MPs, cannot afford to attack citizens on freedom just like that. Then retired pilot Stanko Ristic will remain in custody, and he is being held against him, what we know, only because he visited the parents of the late Colonel or Lieutenant Colonel Jova Djoga in Kalinovik, because he is being linked to affecting some witnesses, who might be witnesses in the trial against Ratko Mladic, and for Ratko Mladic he knows neither Europe, the world, nor Serge Brammerc, he knows even Rasim Ljajic, where he is, and that Stanko Ristic knows. In your hands, Mrs. Mesarovic, is everything. Whoever knows what we're talking about, he'll understand. You'll have to wash your hands much more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34583	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34584	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, precisely because we were unable to do this job of democratisation of society in those two years of government led by Zoran Djindjic, which implies the establishment of a democratic order in which rights and responsibilities are shared between executive, legislative and judicial authorities, we now see a great commitment to our party in what is done. Of course, these mistakes and failures, which he has, only point to the importance of finishing this job as quickly and efficiently as possible. Once again, I must say, we highlighted yesterday's EU membership bid. As of today, we have no right to act as if Serbia were the same country it was yesterday. We need to be prepared to understand what it's all about. Democratic order, division of power. In which country do the representatives of the judiciary come, so they report to parliament and ask parliament for an opinion for individual judges? We don't think this one's right. What do you think? Then why do we need the High Council of Justice, why do we need the State's Major Prosecutors? We can come from our own belief that we are well-intentioned and that it is we who will bring this necessary order, but if we consider ourselves to be such, then that order should come from the rights that we give to someone else, not from the rights that we give to ourselves. Once again, I'd like to remind you of these few simple truths. The reform of the judiciary is still affirmative, if we're going to talk about individuals, some people who convinced us that it's possible to live in a country where there are courts doing their job. The special department for the fight against organised crime, judges and prosecutors, they have gained wider space in this judicial reform. Councils to fight war crimes, spread space. I'm sure there aren't any MPs today who have an understanding of the Scorpions and the crimes we've known for the past few years. Imagine the situation of the judge, the President of the Council, who tried war crimes, while those who were then arrested sat in the courtroom and threatened her, how the judges who left roses at the door of the apartment felt, reminding them that the red berets were still among us. Where was the state then? These people got more space, and the rest of them are in the judiciary, which obliges us to help them. What are we going to do with any mistakes or failures? The case is mentioned by the judge who died during the election, but it can at least be an argument for those who talk about excessive politicisation of everything. If such strong political will had stood in another plan, then they would have found another candidate and suggested it. Obviously, there were deficiencies in the system that stemmed from the fact that this was the first time. (President: three minutes. ) As far as LDP is concerned, we regret that we were unable to do this in 2001 and 2002. We've passed the Lustration Act. There was no understanding at the time for its implementation, and the law itself was a hoax to democratic authorities, because it was written so that it could not be applied, because it meant that those to whom the law applies were involved, so today we have a problem that the ruling coalition is trying to resolve through these changes in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34585	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34586	Article 104. Mr. Jovanovic, you and I are different. For us, next to Srebrenica, there is a Bratunac. Whether it needs judicial reform, I've already pointed that out - should be. I said precisely and clearly that we do not advocate that judges and prosecutorial officials are elected to the National Assembly, but to eradicate politicization, because it has. Do you want me to write you a list of the prosecutor's names now, Mr. Radovanovic doesn't know, who are invited to the offices of certain parties and are told that you will apply here and here? We had that agenda point. We don't have that trinket because someone from Ubba just wanted to be a candidate in Osecina. The desire to come to Belgrade can understand every other place in Serbia, although we advocate that there is not so much, but when you talk about regionalisation, one of the colleagues from the SRS will talk, you will see, with a detailed analysis of what kind of situation we have in the Kingdom when it comes to selecting the holders of judicial functions. You say you couldn't finish it in two years, but it's been nine years, there wasn't just an SRS in that government. Both of you and the other, you were all. Why didn't you build that system together that you say "other values system"? I agree that it is not enough just to take the candidacy, but we should also change, that is, those who are performing at this point in the executive power, which are holders of judicial functions, should be completely excluded from the influence, or from the sphere of the executive authority, and has never dominated us more strongly at this point. You'll say that one day, Mrs. Mesarovic. You'll have to, because your conscience will simply work when you find out what you may not know today. When it comes to these mistakes, no one alive or normal can accuse any man of what happens after this, but you're all responsible together for what we have in the judiciary today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34587	There is no violation of Article 104 in the presentation of MP Cedomir Jovanovic. I ask you to carefully choose words and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when we address the present representatives of the motions and presidents of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the State Council of Prosecutors, that we control ourselves and that who has the conscience and who will respond in six months or in a year, to refrain from speaking, since this is the reason for giving the measure of caution, because it is an insult to the present participant at the session. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34588	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again I want to repeat, we wanted and did everything to implement the reform of the Serbian judiciary. First of all, it obliged us to withdraw policy from the justice system. In 2001, the Society of Judges of Serbia also nominated the President of the Constitutional Court and the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the District Court. Slobodan Vučetic was practically returned to the order of the Constitutional Court judges, so he was elected President of the Constitutional Court. Leposava Karamarkovic has been returned to the judiciary and has been elected president of the Supreme Court. Vida Petrovic-Skero was elected head of the District Court on a proposal for a profession. That was the maximum we could do at that point. A set of laws establishing legal preconditions for further judicial reform has been adopted. It's never over. For what? Because the government's president was killed on March 12th 2003 in a coup conducted in the country, which was followed by a discontinuity policy with Zoran Djindjic, another name for continuity with Milosevic. When you list these examples, we too know very well the individual cases that compromise the ruling coalition, which damage independent institutions to the High Council of the judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors. We think that at this point we should pay attention to the other side that is aphimetically talking about the whole process and that gives us arguments that we can believe that these are the first steps that are being taken in this good direction. If someone had the strength to withstand the pressure of the state for which the murderer of the Prime Minister was a gentleman and to give him the maximum prison sentence, then here we believe that they will have the strength of each of us, according to each of us, to set up in accordance with the law. We don't think we're the kind of people our judiciary has been facing in the last few years. If the judges had the strength to condemn war crimes, then they would have the strength to face a policy that is corrupt, with politicians who abuse and break laws. Once again, EU candidacy obliges us to have a completely different relationship with this society. Of course, when we talk about Srebrenica, we don't think it's necessary to ignore Bratunac, but I think it's a mistake and that's what we're talking about all the time, putting a sign of equality between all of it. Of course, it obliges us to respect those values which are the basis of Europe, the anti-fascist struggle, to advocate respect and affirmation of human rights and freedoms, to respect the market and the market economy, for a different regional policy, for affirmation of the non-governmental sector, for the partnership of the state of the church in those affairs where this partnership and for the clear distance of one and another segment of our lives in situations where our interests are intertwined, and thus create confusion and chaos. It's our business together. He can't go LDP to Europe without radicals staying out of Europe. That's what we said last year when you were unique, when we asked the ruling coalition to accept your amendment to the SAA, and it's a good thing that a year after that, we don't have anyone here in parliament who's going to break, pulls microphones to mention Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34589	Three minutes. The word is by MP Bosko Ristic, an authorised representative of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34590	The President-in-Office, honourable representatives of the proposings, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at first I want to realize that the reform in the judiciary is exactly what the citizens of Serbia want, because they know best what the situation is like in the judiciary when they are being held as parties in court proceedings, they know and it is a general opinion that the judiciary is not effective. They know that access to justice is not the same for all, that there are privileged ones and that our legal system has shortcomings that prevent the rule of law and the functioning of full capacity institutions to protect guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens of Serbia. What I want to say is that this reform was implemented on the basis of the Constitution, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law and that this reform was implemented by the legitimate and legally elected authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The incorrect fact is that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors are illegal and illegal bodies, primarily because they were created and elected in accordance with the law and in accordance with the democratic procedure established by the Constitution. I would like to remind all of the present and citizens of Serbia that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been confirmed in the referendum, that most of the parties in this House voted in favour of this Constitution and the Law on its implementation. It defines what the role is and what is the position, constitutional and legal, and the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. The constitution defined his composition. There is a fundamental principle that the majority of the Supreme Judiciary Council will represent judges, and that in the State's Council of Prosecutors, the majority will be represented by prosecutors. The lack of a single member in each of these state authorities is now increasing the role of the profession. According to the Constitution and the law, the relationship between the representatives of the profession is 7:4 in favour of the profession. Now we literally have 7:3. It is not possible for someone who comes from the High Council of the Judiciary or the State Major Prosecutors to vote the profession when making a decision. It is an important quality in guaranteeing the status of judicial holders. What is also important to say is that the minimal impact of policy on the work of these state authorities is. These state bodies under the Constitution and the law must guarantee the independence and independence of judges and prosecutors when performing public office. The independence of judges and prosecutors applies, above all, to the decision-making of concrete cases, no one in this Serbia has the right to call judges and prosecutors and to say they will decide in a concrete case. I also want to address the candidates, these candidates who are first elected to office in the judiciary. These are the biographies of people who are first elected to judicial functions. These are people who are not burdened with the mortgage of the past. These are people, first of all, young, capable, decent, trained, who get a chance to share justice with everyone equally, regardless of what kind, what race they belong to, what national structure they belong to, and what religion they are. I call on all future holders of judicial functions to act solely in accordance with the Constitution and the law and to apply all confirmed international contracts which are not disputed before the Constitutional Court. It is their obligation and it is the only responsibility for which they can be called and resolved in the future if they do not. I also agree with individual representatives of the parliamentary groups that we have heard today, that everyone will go badly from legal holders who comply with the requirements of the executive authorities. As a politician, the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, which according to the Constitution and the law has a seat in the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, I appeal and ask the elected holders of judicial functions to act exclusively under the Constitution and law. No one has the right to influence them when deciding. It is true that those who are now elected will also be called to account if they do not adhere to the Constitution and the law, but stick to the pressures of the powerful, either from politics, or from the financial centres of power. The exact state of society and EU membership bid defines Serbia mostly for the values we want to protect. I am personally convinced, and I can share the understanding and attitude of all members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and of the State Council of Prosecutors, that all are defined for democratic values that ensure the development and prosperity of Serbian society as a democratic and open society, in the protection of all that Serbia is through history, the fluids of glass, and what these values can get into. I also believe that this Assembly has additional responsibility because the proposed candidates are to give them an assessment and a choice. I also remind those who are first elected to these judicial and prosecutorial functions will be elected for a period of three years. It is a standard in developed democratic countries, in order to assess unworthyness, but whether it will judge within a reasonable period and whether, in accordance with the assessment of training, it will act in favour of the citizens of Serbia and all parties to Serbia's courts. These people should guarantee that institutions such as courts and prosecutors will provide legal protection without discrimination to all those who are being tried before the prosecutions and courts. That means we'll give legal protection to foreigners. A stranger will not have less rights just because he is a stranger, which comes from another country, and he will not have less protection from those who seek protection from domestic courts of foreign capital. There will be no less protection in Serbia for those who bear intellectual property rights and Serbia will not be a place where other people's knowledge will be smuggled and resold as their own. These are the assumptions of Serbia's modernisation, which are the assumptions of establishing a single free market and guaranteeing all acquired rights that you can achieve in court proceedings before domestic authorities. This also strengthens the credibility of domestic institutions and places Serbia in line with democratic and developed countries that understand that the protection of the values achieved at EU level is established in Serbia, not only because we want to go to Europe, but because we believe that citizens of Serbia and all those who believe in Serbian institutions have the right to protection in accordance with the standards we declare and protect in the right of such institutions. It is certain that it is also necessary to provide for a certain legal mechanism, instruments that represent democratically structured procedures in which the parties have equal rights protected by the Constitution and that law. The state authorities have every obligation to respect them. We have defined that professionalism, dignity and training represent fundamental values in selecting candidates. I really didn't hear in the public that they were polling over the influence of politics in the election of candidates who were elected by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors, and are now proposing to the Assembly to vote. This is explained by the fact that MPs sitting in this assembly, members of parties who have really close contact with the members of the Committee on Justice and who, as a function, have no place in these state bodies had any information about which judges and prosecutors were on the list of proposed candidates, until this was published on the website. All of you from this House ran to your MPs' clubs to see who will be on the list of elected judges and prosecutors. None of you knew who was on the list of elected judges and prosecutors. Someone call who knew in advance, tell the public. I'd put an end to that controversy. In specific cases, I want you to tell me who these individuals who, based on political ties, have come to the place to perform a public judicial or prosecutorial function. There are among the candidates of people close to individual representatives of some parties and it is incorrect to speak by name and last name, but it is true that there are those who were close or party members, but we were convinced that by their behaviour they were worthy, professional and trained to share justice and that those performers of judicial functions who were formerly party officials in their work had respect for both local environments and professions and did not sin against the Constitution and the law and were therefore exclusively proposed to be holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions. It wasn't a discriminatory element. I personally know the judges and prosecutors who were members of all the parties here in parliament, and that wasn't an obstacle to them, because I am in power and some opposition, to be elected high in the courts of higher rank. It doesn't bother anyone. As a member of one party, I would have no objection to being a party to proceedings before a judge who was once a member of another party and I know intimately that he supports such a political option, but does not act in his own actions by favouring any political option and is not embodied in the application of the Constitution and the law. Those were the reasons for our commitment. Among these candidates, you have young candidates, I say, unburdened by the mortgage of your parents or parties they once belonged to, but it is also true that you do not have candidates who are currently party members. If they were once, they're out. I'd like to hear specific cases where the High Council was wrong or the State's Major Prosecutors. I don't want to justify the decisions of these two state authorities, I want to say that the State's Major Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary will respond to any objections. We will also take action against those we choose today if we have evidence that they behave dishonestly and unworthyly or that they do not perform their function in a way that the citizens receive justice within a reasonable time. Those judges who have received the Constitutional Court rulings to judge within a period that is not considered reasonable, so the state has to pay damages, cannot expect to be elected. They are not resolved because this is not a solution, because the choice of individual candidates does not mean that those who are not elected suffer the consequences of the resolution. In concrete cases, we did not conduct a discharge procedure to prove unworthy, according to the criteria used by the High Council of the judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors, dignity, expertise and training are assumed, and only in specific cases that you have evidence that someone has not acted in accordance with these criteria, it is not proposed as a better candidate among other candidates who have applied for the same place. It also happened that some good candidates misjudged the application for a particular type or degree of court or prosecution. Some good candidates were not chosen solely because they applied to the courts of the highest rank and did not, according to the assessment of these two state independent authorities, have sufficient training to continue with the judicial post in those courts. That is why I expect that these places that are not filled in courts and prosecutors will be subsequently filled in by the ranks of judges and prosecutors who were not elected during this contest. I expect that some judges who have not now passed, applying to the level of courts and prosecutors for whom they have the necessary qualifications according to already adopted criteria, will get a chance to continue working on a new network of courts according to the new regulation of courts and prosecutors. You noticed that a number of judicial and prosecutorial posts were not filled. Why? Just because we didn't want to fill in the post-poo all the places unless we had enough quality in certain environments. It is not the same situation in all prosecutors and in all courts in Serbia's territory. In some courts and prosecutors, we had one negative selection over a long period of time. A large number of related persons who came past the criteria did not guarantee that the most qualified judges and prosecutors had been elected over the past period. Such judges and such prosecutors were not given a chance in this election because they had personalities and candidates whose résumé, behaviour and relationship between the local public and the professional public and the results of the work we have established on the basis of the personal sheets, suggested that they would be better candidates who, in the coming period, will guarantee that the network of courts will function in the best way, in favour of the citizens. I would also like to point out another fact that there are a large number of objects that lasts inaccessibly long. Justice, they say, is available, regardless of the time, doesn't matter when it comes. It's one flossula we have to deal with once and for all. Citizens seek justice within a reasonable time. Whoever starts the dispute wants to settle the case in two years, within a reasonable time. Whether it's going to be in two and a half or three, and it's not a big deal, but it can't last 10, 15, 20 and 30 years. In public I've talked about cases, today I won't do it, I've already said it, which lasts 20 years. A man who started a work dispute at the age of 40 has not yet returned to work, although seven years ago he received a judicial and executive verdict. Seven years of execution. Is the executive procedure a way of obstructing the exercise of law? Do our legal holders want to face the application of international standards that we adopted by confirming international contracts in this House? Can we, on the basis of double morale, judge and share parties with patriots and traitors? Does a patriotic trial mean we favor certain people at the expense of others? We want the judiciary to be independent and independent and to judge on the basis of the Constitution and the law, respecting the international standards we adopted in this highest house as representatives of citizens, because that is the will of citizens. It is the will of citizens to go to Europe, to accept these standards, but to provide institutions and representatives in them that will best fight for the establishment of the rule of law. I am convinced that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors have proposed the best candidates. There are also candidates who are children of those we did not choose during the next election. There are those judges and prosecutors who didn't get a chance just because they didn't meet one of those criteria based on the arguments and evidence we found during the election process. Similarly, the consequences should not be suffered by those young people who have not had the opportunity to be elected for seven, eight and ten years because of their relations in the Parliament itself, and now they will get the chance of just those on these lists. Their biographies you have, you have the quality of their studies, you have the assessment of the courts as they worked, you have the evaluation of their mentors where they worked and helped make decisions and you have the time they waited to come into a position to realize their dream of being educated, graduated and later passed the judicial exam. The Serbian judiciary will be depoliticized. This is step one. The next step is to establish a judicial academy that will guarantee a depolitised education and the supplementary education of lawyers for the highest judicial functions. Also, it will be guaranteed to the best students and students of the judicial academy that they have the advantage of choosing on judicial functions. So it's the first step and the desire and the political will to depolitize the judiciary. Also, as the ruling majority has the responsibility for the current movement in society, to provide political guarantees that democratic development will develop, and the opposition is a kind of institution. The opposition must base its work on adopted values and support all positive processes, because we are all users of the services of that public service that makes the state and institutions such as the court or the prosecution that should guarantee constitutionality and legality in the conduct and guarantee of the exercise of rights within a reasonable period of time. This is what I'm gonna end up with. I really believe that we all have an intimate belief that the judicial reform process is in progress in the right way, in the right direction. I am not running away from being a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, and as a representative of this House, we are reviewing all those decisions we have made regarding individuals if they are unworthy, because no one wants to confuse their decisions and to paint himself into a corner and not to see the truth in front of them. We're not going through the fog and the dark to make decisions. We want to work with you colleagues to come up with the best solutions in the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34591	The word is from MP Srdjan Spasojevic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34592	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Judges, the Honorable Prosecutors, the Honorable Carriers of all the judicial functions in the country that are being discussed here today and these days. I would like, first of all, to begin my discussion inspired by Mr. Ristic's exposure, which on several occasions said that all, practically, holders of judicial functions were not elected and gave complete arguments that were not correct. The citizens of Serbia and those who should be elected should know that these people are not chosen for one single reason, which is that the enormous dissatisfaction that is with the holders of judicial functions, among those people who are not elected, is that they continue to hold the tension of some next competition, that these people are held in a state of rest, that these people are not raising their voices because they fear that if any of them appear to have no chance of having any competition. Mr. Ristic, if you chose 1,600-1,700 judges or prosecutors, you could have finished your election by the end. That's how it's done with the Casation Court, so it's up to the lowest court of law. It is the only and key reason and do not distract the citizens of Serbia. Don't lie to people because the holders of the judicial functions should judge the people, and they shouldn't be led astray here in parliament. So much for not making a choice. Now I'm going to start with my discussion, practically, that in the state of Serbia when the justice system is at stake, everything is totally not complete. The Constitutional Court is incomplete. The Supreme Council of the Judiciary was incomplete, which was elected by the judges. It was an incomprehensible state council, and we have at this point and not complete courts, so we're going to be doing some competitions again. Is it possible, Madam President of the Supreme Cassation Court, that someone who is a member of the key council in the Supreme Court of Serbia has not been elected Supreme Court of Cassation? Serbian citizens are asking the basic question -- how have these people been doing their job so far, how have they judged and are all these decisions made competent and are they true, do they correspond to the truth when none of them have practically passed or are rare cases? It's similar with prosecutors, but now it's a different topic. The basic question is raised, which was essential for a large number of judicial officials, dignity – who and how and how did he value this dignity? We saw you a few days ago, on Friday night when you were visiting on RTS TV one complete uncertainty among you. First of all, the rts' objections which no one from the opposition or from some of the professional people who do not belong to the ruling coalition had called and could not oppose the arguments, but you were enough for yourself to get into each other's word, you showed great uncertainty, and hence you were afraid that you had made these choices right. I know that the topic of the agenda is those people who are first elected, but the basic question is asked – if you have shown such uncertainty in front of the leader Kovacevic, who has completely, chessfully said, matted you, then the question is, how will all of this be considered by the holders of judicial functions? Is it possible that you allowed that I would never allow it to be a complete High Council of the Judiciary? Why now, on the agenda, we're going to have a professor. Zoran Tomic, who will be chosen? Why hasn't it been done much earlier? Mr. Ristic, and I'll tell you this opportunity that you have repeatedly given a reason why a representative of the State Council of Prosecutors, a man from Cacca, has not been elected. You gave an explanation, and today my colleagues said, "The bar of attorneys has spoken for him." In this House, I apologize to you who may not have heard it, none of the opposition or positional MPs said a single word against the man and then the parliament voted that this man was twice not fit to be in the State Council of Prosecutors. You did that man a favor. This man would probably never accept, because I know him well, that in this way prosecutors in central Serbia are determined to be sent from the end to Serbia, to be sent where they did not apply at all, to be sent from the city to the city, to be sent where they were practically never expected to work. That's what I'm telling you because that man is such a safe character who wouldn't let anything like that get done. That's why you probably didn't pick him. Why didn't you do the same criteria in Belgrade and Vojvodina? Why is only central Serbia under special patronage, special suspicions, possible ties between lawyers, judges, prosecutors, etc.? What kind of message do you send to people who are studying law school today? That those who have a father or grandfather of a lawyer can never be judges? Are you sending a message to these same people that they can't make a marriage to some young intern or some people where sympathy happens because people work in the same town? What do we do with that? Are we gonna ban it from being able to marry a judge tomorrow or can't a lawyer get married? Yes, Mrs. Mesarovic. I'll tell you, today, in the means of public information, you have an article saying that one of the spouses was elected as a judge by submitting additional documentation as a basic proof that her spouse or husband, however, submitted a request for resolution, that is to step down from the bar. What if we choose him and tomorrow he returns? We didn't do anything. All this says you didn't do some things right. First of all, how is it possible for certain candidates to appear in double functions, to be elected to two jobs, i.e. to be carriers in both jobs and elsewhere? Mrs. Mesarovic, last year when we talked about the network of courts, I submitted an amendment where I asked that there be a mandatory conversation with the candidate, at least for a minute and see who you choose. That amendment was rejected. If that were accepted, you would not have made such mistakes today. I apologize to the deceased's family, but you allowed even such a situation to happen in Pozega. Is that trust in the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors, when we have the thing that happened, which is the fact, you can't say it didn't, and it missed? So these days we have witnessed some terrible trials. First of all, I am referring to Boris Tadic's trial for the champagne affair. I don't know if that judge was elected, was she rewarded for it or was she punished? It doesn't matter. Is it possible that this was about 30 or months or more of the main issue in our judiciary that Boris Tadic and all those who opened champagne, I think it was perfectly normal because the team qualified for a significant tournament, there is nothing terrible about it, and now they are more punished, and in the same cabinet of Boris Tadic millions of euros have passed, and the state prosecutor has not responded for months, although the New Serbia parliamentary group has been insisting on it for more than three months. I'll also tell you that certain judges who are disabled in the King are being sent to another city a hundred miles away. Is it a relationship to those people who have a physical flaw, to eliminate them in some future period? I'm not going to be much into personal solutions, but I have to point out some that are completely accurate. The judge of the Trade Court, who at the time of Slobodan Milosevic as the representative of the SPS, who at the time had the strength to receive opposition leaders, first of all Vuk Draskovic, and all other opposition leaders, who was therefore removed as president of the municipality, this man today is not with excellent results in the Trade Court, I will not mention his name, elected judge of the court. So much for people who have had the strength to say at any time that the Kraljevo municipality is open to all parties at the beginning of a multi-party system in Serbia. So, I can't accept the fact either, although Mr. Ristic now says that some have waited years for the situation to be chosen, there are examples like that, that for the first time you chose judges in 50 and change years, and that excellent trainees, excellent professional associates with excellent results, with quality work, remained unchosen. The others were not chosen just because in the same town their family members were respected lawyers or distinguished judges, and it even happened that you were even on the Tazbin line removing people if they had any connection with that lawyer. What is particularly concerned is that during this period which has been throughout the year you have brought the situation to justice that practically people absolutely do not judge by cases, that they are afraid to judge, because they have been waiting for this day. If this election is finally the beginning of a faster trial, it'll be very good, but I'm not sure that in a situation where we've had so many unsolved cases, and now we have so few judges in the courts, we'll have a more effective judiciary. You have a huge problem with the executive procedure. You have a verdict that doesn't run for ten or fifteen years. Therefore, I am convinced that nothing better will happen in Serbia when it comes to the justice system, even because of the territory and the network of courts you have predicted, we will have great problems to schedule trials, that trials are scheduled. We have a situation that has already been seen in an environment in Bosnia in three or four months to schedule trials. Of course, the answers, as we can see, are different these days. The only thing that's a little bit of a hope that might be good is that this kind of pressure you have on the current holders of judicial functions may work day and night, and that maybe they'll do something about the verdicts, but I'm not sure. I'm not sure because you also have judges in Novi Sad who condemn the immaterial damages of 100,000 euros. For the mere immaterial damage of 100,000 dinars by an anonymous show leader, who had suffered, as if Larry King, some major injury and judges in Novi Sad had sentenced him to 100,000 euros in immaterial damage. It's completely contrary to any court practice. For the dead soldier in Kosovo, Mrs Mesarovic, the family received a million dinars, meaning tens of thousands of euros, and here we have a situation of 100,000 euros. I would also like to say that personal solutions may have a good situation in some segments. I really can't say that all the people who have made progress haven't earned it, but countless people, believe me, is absolutely such that we suspect you've done a good job. I also advocated it last year that only judges and prosecutors were practically in that High Court. You can't mix politics. Mr. Ristic, the law is not good if you're the chairman of the Justice Committee, you're an active lawyer and you decide on the choice of legal holders. You shouldn't have let the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors be defiled and none of the other lawyers would show up in that. In my view, it is the greatest conflict of interest, that anyone who works in this House, and I am the same lawyer, is actively working and is so highly affected by the choice of legal holders. I speak in principle, I don't mind. I've been saying that for two years. I absolutely cannot accept that in a small town someone is in conflict of interest if someone in his family is a judge or a lawyer, and that the holder of practically crucial roles in parliament is actively carrying out a lawyer at the High Council of Justice, the State Council of Prosecutors and is chairman of the Justice Committee. That's a bad message. You're not sending a good message. Believe me, if I were you, I'd either freeze the status of a lawyer or I'd never accept something like that. It's a matter of personal determination. Time will show, maybe I'll have to show it someday, but anyway, what you're telling us is wrong, and that's why you should've made sure that your colleagues from law enforcement are represented in the State Council of Prosecutors. That is the only reason a colleague from central Serbia, from the town of Cačka, has not been elected. Like I said, not to repeat myself, you've done a great human satisfaction to a man. I would never allow prosecutors to be chosen in this way, to go this way, to have the prosecutor go from one city to another for 100 kilometers. Mr. Radovanovic, I'm talking to you now. If someone suspected a prosecutor's office in the city where he was elected, that man must be removed, not as a reward to go to another city to be a prosecutor. You're the ones who cost up. It's a huge cost, you'll see. The judges are already wondering if they will have secured transports, whether they will have secured apartments, whether they will have secured hotels, etc. It's a big problem for you, and the only thing you realize is that you can't run the state in that way, you can't walk around with legal functions. I'm going to tell you that at this point in the city of the King, no one has ever taken care that the basic court will be left without a single culprit. You sent one of the good criminals to New Market to be an investigative judge. The man probably didn't even compete. Of course, some have made progress. Just you, Mr. Ristic, laugh. I'm telling you it's true. The phones don't calm down. They're all against the way you've made this election. Of course, they're not the ones who are happy. I want this opportunity and to congratulate the holders of the judicial functions that have been chosen, who are worthy, as you say, but I also want to show great dissatisfaction that certain excellent holders of judicial functions, that we do not go on personal and that I do not want to harm people, perhaps even harm others beyond the election, and I am sure they would deserve to be the bearers of judicial functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34593	The word has the People's MP Bosko Ristic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34594	What I'm saying is that when people are discussing and making arguments about such an important subject, they can't be two-faced. We can't say that there are problems in the courts, that executive proceedings take too long, and then that all those decisions made by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors are being passed. It was precisely the intention of creating a more effective judiciary and that the prosecution could better deal with organised crime and corruption, so that we could process and be sent to prison in good time and sent to prison. When you talk about whether there is a conflict of interest in my personality, as chairman of the Justice Committee, given the profession I am dealing with, I must remind you that it is contrary to what you claim to be the sole professional composition of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors because your party has also declared to the Constitution which defines the composition and the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors. The constitution says the chairman of the Assembly's Justice Committee will serve as a member of these two state bodies. I'd have to find out, that all the members of the Justice and Administration Committee have unanimously elected me president of the Committee. So no one was ever suspicious of a conflict of interest at the time. Furthermore, an initiative has already been put forward to assess whether I am in conflict of interest, according to a commission dealing with conflict of interest, and I have been given the solution that the exercise of office of MPs and lawyers is not in conflict of interest, so any MP can be the chairman of a competent committee whose chairman and member of the State Council of Prosecutors and High Council of Justice. I also dispute your position that the participation of the Attorney General in the High Council may have a negative impact on the decision-making process, because the Constitution says that the most respected lawyers who have at least 15 years of experience will be elected from the law order, who will participate in such decisions. But exactly independence and independence of profession are guaranteed by most members of the profession. It is precisely the fact that seven judges sit in that High Council of the judiciary and make decisions independently and independently, that guarantees that decisions are in line with the interests of the profession. We represent external members who carry their data right here from Parliament, what you say, I consistently conveyed to the Supreme Council of the judiciary and to the State Council of Prosecutors all of what I received from my fellow MPs as an objection or commendation for someone's work, because I believe that all members of these two state bodies should know all the facts and circumstances that will affect their decision-making. It is incorrect that the ruling majority here has made it impossible to select the remaining member in both one and another state body, because the proposed member you mention, he is my dear colleague, I know well enough to get only four votes here in the Assembly. This means that a very small number of MPs voted for him, regardless of whether they belonged (President: Three minutes). ). most or opposition. Therefore, when we discuss this subject, we need to be consistent and the arguments should be mutually compatible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34595	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34596	I'm really sorry, Mr. Ristic, that you take my discussion personally. We're talking about principled things here. You know, it's easy for you to appeal to the Constitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34597	National MP, MP Bosko Ristić, was granted the right to replica because you called him by his name and last name, he cannot be more personal, so I ask you in the contents of the replica you have been given the right to deal with the contents of the replica held by MP Bosko Ristić. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34598	I don't know, we differ by different insights. I wanted to tell Mr. Ristic not to take it personally, but we're talking about principled things. So I repeat once again, Mr. Ristic, there will be no doubt about it. Don't think I favor a colleague, but I'm telling you -- no one in parliament, that MPs have come out of the company just for, I'm sure now we're interviewing MPs, that they don't even know who it's about. Someone told them not to vote. If Serbia's Bar Association has proposed the candidate and Mr Tomislav Nikolic has just said so, there is no more parliament to discuss it practically because there were no bad discussions against him. That here in the discussion you convinced parliament and MPs that this man is not competent, that's what parliament is for, but no discussion for that man was -- a man has not been voted. I'm talking about principled things, and it would be a lot easier for you right now if you had a fellow attorney in the State Council of Prosecutors and not to put up with all of this and criticizing you, but I'm telling you that such arguments and such lawyers that you would be, you wouldn't certainly be willing to, because you wouldn't let what was done to prosecutors in central Serbia be done. That's my message. Answer me that. Don't tell me something here in some twisted form that I didn't mention at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34599	National MP Bosko Ristic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34600	First of all, I don't think you had the right to give the replica on the line, but okay. We're developing a discussion that's consistent with the subject, and I find that justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34601	The MP, the Rules of Procedure, of Article 101, has been ordered that giving the right to the replica is the discretionary right of the chairman. There's no rule about whether there's replicas on the line or not. The chairman, acting under article 27, is concerned that everyone has room to express their position. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34602	I respect the chairman, and I will accept your decision, but I want to say that it is not true what my colleague said, that the State's Chief Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary have chosen candidates and for those places for which they have not applied, it is absolutely false, but the choice in those places has been made in accordance with the criteria, and based on the application that each of the candidates submitted to these state bodies. So, no prosecutor, no candidate has been elected to the post of prosecutor in the post and in the prosecutor's office for which he has not applied. That's absolutely incorrect. Only for the places where they applied, if they met the conditions, the High Council of the Judiciary was elected by judges, or the State's Chief Prosecutors elected prosecutors. The reason why the new state authorities have defined in certain situations that a choice should be made from another place is to prevent unscrupulous links and contacts, and Serbian citizens know how long procedures, right there and in those places, in those courts and prosecutors where these unprincipled relations are dominant and which have a dominant effect on the work of judges and courts and that there is a major discrepancy between what would mean the rule of law and the rule of law, compared to what they gain as a result of the application of the right through a decision. It is a great dissatisfaction for citizens and we are obliged to ensure that the state and its institutions function on the basis of the rule of law. I think this is the right step and the right path and I believe in this reform. Serbian citizens believe in reform, a very large number of citizens' support comes because they know this is a belief in a better future and a strengthening of capacities and institutions that guarantee their position before the law, and in the process before courts and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34603	Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak, or use their rights under Article 93? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: New Serbia, the LDP parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, and the SRS parliamentary group. We move to a part of the session where the right to speak is given by MPs, and in order and reports for a word in a joint single search on items 14 to 22 of the agenda. The first on the list of registered speakers is MP Miroslav Markicevic, and after that, MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34604	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, Mr Prosecutor, I would like to ask you in advance that all that I say in these 11 minutes that I have here on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, do not take it personally, reject something to my unfair knowledge, or ignorance. Everything I say, I'll tell you honestly and from the soul what I think. Believe me, a lot of Serbian citizens think so. So, the independent judiciary, let's not lie, Madam President and Mr Prosecutor, that's nowhere in the world. Let's not lie, it's not there. Which makes the people unhappy all these years, since 1990, even the last nine years, since the beginning of democratisation, said Mr Jovanovic. You see, in that word, I'll tell you how I see it, and believe me, and a good number of citizens are looking at it. No more democratisation, we want democracy. So we don't want democratisation, we want democracy. We are talking about an independent judiciary, and we all know well, or you tell me -- why does the whole of Serbia think, so I have no proof of it, I am telling you honestly, why does the whole of Serbia think that Dusan Petrovic, deputy president of the DS, and Bosko Ristic made these lists? Why does the whole of Serbia think the parties had quotas? This is my judge, this is your judge and all. Why do they think that? Maybe it's because maybe it's an unwarranted trust in the judiciary. I am aware that as a national MP, a representative of the citizens, I should build this story of an independent judiciary, to support you here, and I want it from your heart. I never needed any prosecutor or judge in my life. I don't think 95% of Serbian citizens are interested. Maybe 5% or 10% have some problems and these problems can only be solved in some courts, to satisfy justice there. But you must understand, the average Serb is very sensitive to justice or injustice. So, as it was done, Comrade Spasojevic said the show, you had a wonderful opportunity on Friday, a wonderful opportunity to resist. Are you aware, Mrs. Mesarovic, that you were sitting with three DS members and you who weren't? So you could have said, on the host and on the RTS, there was pressure, that no one could be by the opposition. You know, every one of us sitting here in the Assembly, I respect that you weren't in the parties, I really respect that, and it says that you don't know how the parties function, and you don't need to know as someone who's the head of our judiciary, but every MP of the opposition or the ruling coalition is representing the same number of citizens here. So, that show on Friday, believe me, was very watched, many were expecting it and many were disappointed. Not that they doubt you in advance or all these people who have been chosen, whom I congratulate. I don't want to speak in person, maybe I know five or six people on this list here of two kilos, and who gives me the right to judge whether these people are worthy, professional, just and will they judge in the interest of the citizens and the people of this country? I'm just telling you what a performance has gotten into this whole procedure. We speak independently, and then we need to abolish the Justice Committee. Should I explain to you or to all of Serbia that Mr. Ristic, with all his professional qualities, is still an exponent of DS, one party? It's clear to everyone. Then why didn't we give you as judges and prosecutors to choose for yourselves, so that you don't sit here today and perhaps suffer some unwarranted criticism of some of the actions that you can't influence. If that were the case, it wouldn't happen here if you spoke for two or three minutes and Mr. Prosecutor, and Bosko Ristic, like in that show, held a vacuum for everyone. This is a humiliation to me both as a citizen and as an MP, and I think of the judiciary. Well, on that show, you were talking 10%, he was talking 90%. This in citizens is causing an aversion and doubts whether everything here is clear, whether people are really chosen here towards dignity, according to justice, according to professional qualities. You know, I was raised as a believer, as a Christian, and it's hard to be, Mrs. Mesarovic. Says the people, better to let the guilty go than to accuse one innocent. I'm not accusing anyone here, I'm just asking you. Citizens are most resilient to the sense of justice or injustice, how they feel, to discrimination. If a member of the Security Committee, Mrs. Mesarevic and Mr. Prosecutor, a member of the National Assembly's Security Committee, says three times in a direct transmission that he is threatened, because he calls his associates the President of the Republic, is one of your, Mr. Prosecutor, an associate, asked if he has spoken to this Markic, perhaps that he is mistaken, who threatens you, why is he threatening you? We've had examples of a Zrenjanin official, perhaps because he's a member of a national minority, which I don't dispute that special attention should be paid to minority members, so what should I think? I'm not saying this for me, I'm not afraid of anyone but Mr. God and his son, so what will ordinary citizens think? How are they protected? Will they be protected, and will their justice be done in that judgment? You had, Mr. Prosecutor, a recent example where you could prove you were independent. State secretaries Homen and Ciric write a letter, there is evidence and a fact, where they say the court must not rule one way or another, whether they are right or wrong. That's proof. It's an attack on an independent judiciary. The D.A.'s not responding. No one reacted. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests now being abolished, has decided that these two gentlemen, state officials, should resign and no one should. Then what will the citizens think? I want and believe that with this reform of the judiciary, as you call it, I believe that for the sake of pressure from the public, the parties, because of the double bang through which we are going to look at you all from today, I believe that at least a few percent will increase the efficiency of courts and justice in courts. I want to believe that, but you as carriers, I apologize for telling you, believe me to say this well-meaningly, you have to say, on that show -- Bosko, sit down, man. You're a representative of the DS. Shut the fuck up. Let Mrs. Mesarovic speak to whom I trust, given what cases you have led and what courage you have shown. I apologize for blackmailing you, but you realize that I speak as an ordinary man. Shut up, you. Let the judges talk, the prosecutors talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34605	People's MP, I ask you to take the contents of your show-off with a constitutional obligation whose consequence is this session, with a law that defines how the High Council of the Judiciary is formed, the State Major Prosecutors, and with all the provisions of other regulations that define our session. I warn you that the way you show your dissatisfaction, the provisions of the Constitution and the provisions of the Law on the Selection of Judges, the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors is contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges you to be polite. Stand back from anything that would force me to give you measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34606	I've worked so hard my whole life, Madam Chairman, and don't replace the thesis. This is an attack on your party that does this, and you honor me for being rude and unworthy of these functions. Right?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34607	People's MP, if I were to say anything you're quoting right now, I'd say so. If you want me to repeat my warning again, it's not hard for me. I refer you to the stenogram and to see that I am obliged to react, as you question constitutional provisions that define the choice of judges with the content of your presentation. You are questioning the Court's Visa Council and the Attorney General's Council. Considering that you have the right to do so, and you do not have the right to question constitutional definitions and those regulations that we have this session today. Please continue in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34608	Ma'am, I agree with everything you just said, I just don't think I'm acting like one. It's your vision of what I'm saying. Please let me finish this in the time I have, in this little time that New Serbia has. May I continue? Thank you very much. Madam President of the Supreme Court, I hope you won't judge here in your courts as we are, the bearers of the electoral will of the citizens. As I see it, gentlemen, this judicial reform or it will really end up looking like some European rules, some European courts. When we say Europeans, we all think it's some justice, something fairer and better for the citizens. Or they'll end up on the lex specialis. Please remember 23. 12. In 2009. I ask you all to invest your dignity and authority and judge, not by your grandmother, not by your uncles. It didn't start out well, it's a public perception. Who contributed to this, you know it well and think about it. Don't end up on the lex specialis. We watched it once in 1996. Then you must understand the MPs who here say that some of the judges involved are now worthy. He can't be a worthy judge or a worthy minister of justice. I think she's worthy of bringing the money back to RIK. Ms. Mesarovic, since you were not partying, RIK is formed by party candidates. Sonja Brkic is a DS candidate. That's why she was in RIK. If you didn't know that, I can believe you didn't know that. You say she's worthy. Then what is the message to Serbian citizens who steal three eggs at the market, so they get as much as they deserve by the chitapa, as they say, and the Supreme Court judge takes two and a half, three million and that's by the law? Then make a suggestion to change those laws. These aren't fair laws. They're not just laws. So, I repeat, congratulations to all who have been chosen. It will carry a heavy bang of Serbian citizens, MPs and all. Please speak more today and say, let's say, for starters, first MPs, do we have the right to comment on the work of the judiciary, the judiciary, the verdict or not? In the editorials, because of the Information Act and because of some laws, there are already briefings on what can be said or not. Until someone tells me what I can say, and what can I not, I ask you – what message do we give to the citizens of Serbia, those terrorism, those scales that show justice? If someone who kills a boy, so happens to be a police officer, gets seven and a half years, and someone for assaulting a police officer gets 10 years, and someone who's been accused, Mr. Prosecutor, of 51 killed soldiers in Tuzla, gets only 11 years, do I have the right, as a man, as a citizen with limited capacity of legal knowledge, to ask that, does Serbia have the right to ask that? Mrs. Mesarovic, I wish you all the best. Justice for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34609	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Vesna Pesic, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mesarovic, Mr. Prosecutor, I would like to say that it is a good thing that changes have been introduced in the judiciary. We agreed that our judiciary didn't work properly, that it had huge problems. When last year these laws, on the basis of which this reform was being carried out, I would rather say change than reform, because reform sounds too positive to me, and there are still a lot of problems left here, to say that the main problem was what I said last year. If one executive authority takes over an unprecedented task for itself to set one zero point of justice in one country, it means that at one point disband all judges and prosecutors, it means that again, whether it's the first time or a re-election, everything from the beginning does and, not to say change and headquarters, etc. means, if it takes one such extensive reform, then it was necessary to do one previous research, and very detailed, and to see where the fundamental problems of our judiciary were. So only one study could show how this reform would be timed to solve those problems that are essential problems. That's why I'm saying it. That's because if we don't know what these problems are, we're talking about the criteria of the judge's dignity, the dignity of the prosecutor. However, was the problem with our judiciary that they were not worthy, was the problem that they were not effective, was it a problem that they were unprofessional? Any of these problems could have been solved in another way. If the problem was the dignity of the judges, then we had to react and see how unworthy they are. Unworthyness could be established, say, in the following way. It could be established by assuming the judges were corrupt, by perhaps receiving money from the side. Personally, I believe that in the judiciary there was the smallest number of people who had received money from people to make a verdict like this or a verdict like that. Did they suffer political pressures, was that our judiciary's problem, so someone on the side was pressuring? Was there a problem with marriages, related relationships, nepotism, and thus pressured the judiciary? Have you ever identified what the main problem is if such a preamble of unseen proportions is brought? I must say, even the authoritarian regime of Josip Visarionovich has not decided to change all judges and all prosecutors at one point. First of all, you haven't even comparatively set an example for us on the basis of which you've carried out such a well-conceived reform of the judiciary, let's see where there's still such an example that we can look up to and then comparatively follow the results of what we've done. I believe that neither this government, nor these people who have done this, have the capacity to make such a cumbersome change as they have written to themselves. If so, and yes, there was no research, we don't know what was done in the courts, we have no idea, then it can be done in a voluntary and transparent way and such doubts in public and exist. That this topic has been taken seriously here, that someone has searched the entire judiciary in this country and that we are talking about it today, you, as chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as well as Mr. President of the Council of Prosecutors, have already had to open a real debate today on all the doubts that have arisen in public, and have appeared, not that one and the other come out with one piece of paper as the ministers do, so they read the explanation, as when teachers hold lectures, they read their textbooks and thus teach their students. Anyone can sit down and read something. So if you stop for this pay phone, you could explain some of the work you've been doing, explain to us the full methodology of the work of the High Council of Justice, avoid even the slightest suspicion that has arisen in public. That also applies to the D.A.'s Council. That's what you were supposed to explain to us today, not read us a sheet of paper that we can read ourselves. It's astounding to me that you didn't feel you needed to explain any of this to us. I'll ask you a question. So let's say, if you have a methodology with three criteria: skills, expertise and dignity, how did you combine three criteria? Did the chosen meet all three criteria or perhaps one or two? Is it, for example, the dignity of a judge absolutely necessary, because one who may not be trained will be able, if not satisfied, to learn, but if he is not worthy, how can he be chosen? I expected you to explain to us how you made those decisions, because that's the methodology of the work. It would be terribly important to hear you identify yourself. How did you define that criterion? These two other careers you had, it could have been defined objectively. So if someone has a lot of backlogs, if they don't have a certain efficiency, if they don't have a certain expertise, if a senior court has given him a negative recommendation, we don't know if you've always been at the tide, if you've always been there, if there have been any working groups, if you've spent five minutes per candidate, if you've been able to do it in public and to conduct these discussions with the candidates. We didn't know any of that. Why am I going back to the question of dignity? Because I don't think that this criterion has been defined in public and that this has caused enormous problems in applying that criterion. Here's why. It is obvious that you have also referred to the issue of conflict of interest, so you have decided somewhere that conflict of interest is, for example, a marriage relationship between a judge and a lawyer. That's caused a lot of controversy in public. Let's just say you didn't stop here and answer that question. You didn't say if it was considered. We don't know, the public's wondering. To remove even the slightest doubt, you should have answered those questions here. If I knew that, you must have known what suspicions appeared in public. So, have you considered conflict of interest and how you defined conflict of interest? For example, some say that they only considered marriage relationships, someone said family relationships were taken into account, and then they say, no, they're somewhere like this. Let's just say you didn't answer the question, did you have an exception to working when your son was elected? I'm sure it's not pretty. If you've made an exception, there's got to be a record of it, so we can check it out. So, you had to make an exception. Excuse me, you're waving your hand, but the exemption was really necessary if it was a conflict of interest. Ma'am, please listen calmly to these remarks. Furthermore, you also have judges who have a very high reputation, who are husband and wife. For example, Nevenka Okec has a great reputation, and Sinisha Okic. So, husband and wife in court. Have you tried anywhere to make this criterion transparent because there are major problems? In addition, I'll show you in this new election, you delivered 876 people to us on Friday night, where we couldn't do any analysis and see what criteria were applied. Also, not only did you not explain the methodology of the work itself, to show us any inside of that work, how you made those decisions, I must say that and transparency... And by doing so, you have caused great mistrust, and transparency has not been great either. When it comes to new judges, those who choose for the first time, that applies to these others too, you see, you had completely objective criteria, you say like this -- success in studies, length of study, grade received in the collective, and how they worked in the collective, of course, dignity. Since certain quantified indicators exist for all of this, each one could and each one received a certain grade. If you put on the site those 876 judges, could you still put that grade on, see what grade they got? Are you in any order, was that a problem to do, is that a technical question? To the public, it means to show us. Because if I tried to at least do a little research on this new one, it means what's on the agenda today, not those, and I'm going to say something about it... Look, if we look at it, then we can say this, here's what I've been investigating. He was proposed as a candidate for Đuric Aleksandar, mother of Olga Djuric, judge of the Administrative Court, former Serbian Supreme Court judge, average 7.20, length of six years of study. Why didn't you put it all on the site? Further, under 2) Dejan Stefanovic, mother of Margita Stefanovic, judge of the Belgrade Court of Appeal, average 7.8, length of study for six years. Ana Trifunovic, father of Predrag Trifunovic, judge of the Supreme Court, average score of 7.85, length of study for four years, Natasa Petricevic-Milosavljevic, mother of Nada Petricevic, unelected judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, average 8.6. Furthermore, Maja Pekovic-Savić, father of Novica Pekovic, the unelected Supreme Court judge, also the length of the study, 8.6. He caused a big surprise. There's another curiosity in these proposed judges. It is proposed as candidate Tanja Trkulja-Vasic. Her husband is the leader of star fans, Dragan Vasic, who is the leader of the Ultras group, but also her sister works in the Attorney's Office, Maja Trkulja, who together gives Mr. Yugoslavia Tintore, who has been paid for star fans... The two of them, that law firm, were paid by the Star to defend these fans who came under the influence of the law. Just for this little bit, we could see that the years of study, the grades, we could get it all on the site and see, maybe with some higher grades, and you didn't stand a chance. I speak purely principledly. If you put that on, if you put what you calculated on the site, if anyone could see it, then it would be much clearer and then there would be less confusion. This is how I had to look and see if I could calculate some years in a hurry, because you gave that material on Saturday. I move on to the issue of impartiality regarding the pressure and choice of certain judges. Is the dignity of the judge, Madam President, of the High Council of the Judiciary, a dignity if a judge kneeled before politics or if he made judgments under the influence of apolitical decisions? Does this belong to dignity or inadequacy? I think it would be your turn to explain it to us, because according to what I've done, I've been able to determine, and you've had to be aware of that, that you chose judges who applied the political criteria in making court decisions, in the form of law enforcement, and especially in election disputes in 1996, 1997 and 2000, in disputes where political parties participated as parties, in human rights infringements, for example. the unlawful detention, and that among the elected judges there are those who, by seizing the proceedings, have led to limitations. Now, if it weren't for me telling you by heart, the kind of judges who brought and violated under political influence, and you know that it was slow back then, I mean 67 municipalities and in all of Belgrade's municipalities, that the courts had brought and violated the election will of the citizens, such judges you considered worthy. These are: Ana Popović, Vesna Obradović, Smiljka Nigarac-Niciforović, Miroslav Vučetić, Jasna Belović, Bojana Paunović, Milomir Nikolic, Daniela Nikolic, Jasminka Obucina. Unfortunately, this list isn't complete because we haven't had time to work out everything you've done here. On the same election list, you also have those who, for example, are Vesna Mitrovic, the Pozarec District Court, who signed a request for the initiation of the investigation and set up two months of detention for the members of Otpor Veljkovic, Lukovic and Sokolovic. Those who worked, it's dignity... Please, that would be very good if you explained - what is dignity? You could have taken it as a family relationship, as a conflict of interest, as a marriage relationship, as a political pressure, as a corruption. What's dignity? Since that's not clear enough here, I think the one who accepts political pressure, that there can't be a talk of dignity. However, it is obvious that the criteria we have taken into account here simply did not work. I have to tell you, it's not right if this is the attitude and when it comes to prosecutors, just to tell Mr. Radovanovic -- believe me, I personally got the performances, here's how I can take it here, the public of Zrenjanin, where the citizens signed that their deputy attorney is a public prosecutor, I think his name is Zoran Jurethin-Juran, is he elected? They write presentations to MPs... (President: National MPs, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. )......................................................................................................... I ask both of you to give an answer to these people - why are they not chosen? All these doubts that have been raised here, it was good that you removed in advance or that you tried to say - why and how were these judges and prosecutors methodologically chosen?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34611	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34612	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Head of the Serbian Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a year ago we began a debate in this National Assembly whose consequences we knew. The consequences of the debate on judicial reform, which took place in autumn 2008, are being watched today. This is one of the natural outcomes of an extremely poor reform that, in its ultimate outcome, the aim of which was to be the efficiency of the judiciary and the achievement of justice in the judiciary, will only give its bad results. The practical consequences of the change in the judiciary last year are the abolition of courts, the dismissal of judges and employees in the judiciary and changes in procedural laws that diminish the rights that citizens had in the previous period, and I am primarily referring to the procedural laws - the Law on Prosecution, whose changes are currently being carried out by the Code of Criminal Procedure. These consequences, according to the promoters' representatives, were to aim for citizens to exercise their rights easier and simpler and that the proceedings were shorter, and they ended up with a large number of municipalities running out of courts, although hundreds of years of courts in municipalities existed, that a large number of long-standing judges and prosecutors were out of work, and that we are now introducing new rules into the Code, such as today's Law on Criminal Procedure, where we are raising the threshold for review and that a large number of cases, and citizens, will be in a position not to declare extraordinary remedies. We are introducing new institutes that are not known in the Serbian judiciary, although there was controversy here, when the Code of Criminal Procedure was on the agenda, a plea agreement. We now extend this to violations, to a number of people who can file criminal charges, we will now give the opportunity to trade with offenders and there will certainly be an increase in corruption in the state administration. When all this is seen, it is logical to conclude this selection of carriers in judicial functions that has raised this much dust in public and the great dissatisfaction of those who have not been chosen. On the one hand, the representatives of the judiciary who participated in this election can say - well, it is logical that those who are not chosen are dissatisfied. If, in addition to this general dissatisfaction in the public, things relating to the criteria and where the application of the criteria is contested, then the question is to what extent was this whole procedure based on the criteria that have been declared. Before I say anything more about this, I want to say something about the practical consequences of judicial reform and the premises that came from here when the public and the National Assembly were convinced that it was a good step. One of the Justice Ministry's representatives said that reforms in the judiciary will now be made and the way judicial officials will be elected so that corruption in the judiciary is completely reduced. It came from an unproven claim that corruption in the judiciary is, in fact, the largest in small towns. The practical decisions of the premise were to first abolish the courts of those small places where corruption is large, and then to deploy judicial officials outside the place where basic courts and prosecutors were established. We have never answered the following question -- how it is possible that one judicial function holder, here, let's say, the elected prosecutor, is prone to corruption and the fact that he is in trouble to be elected in his place, because he will be corrupt, and 15 kilometers away he will not be able to be corrupt. For example, he was elected prosecutor at the Vrsca Prosecutor's Office of Smederjevska Palanka. According to justice representatives, the prosecutor would be corrupt in the Smederjevska Palanca, but as soon as he goes to Vrsac, there is no corruption. I think it's a serious problem and that in the beginning extremely important holders of judicial functions, such as prosecutors, and that will happen with the judges, are already in a situation to explain to the citizens of those places why they came here. We're here because if we were elected to my place of residence, we'd be in a position to be corrupt. It's been embodiesded with another big problem, financial. Has anyone calculated how much it will cost to travel these people or, at the very end of the line, provided accommodation and accommodation fees in those other places at the annual level of prosecutors, and now the judge, since we hear that in the same way the judges will go to court outside of their place of residence because they will be elected in the area of one basic court, so perhaps according to the days of judgment they will appear in the places where the courts are now abolished. Can the judiciary handle such a financial burden? A key issue also for the most representatives of the judiciary - to what extent will it contribute to efficiency, especially because in a series of protest regulations we did not remove the possibility of obstructing the process? It is now something tried to amend the Law on Prosecution, which refers to the exception of judges, but the general judge or prosecutor who comes from one place to another, doesn't know the environment, these people, they don't know the parties, they delay the search or hearing, they go back the same day, it's a huge problem, and plus he's carrying the mortgage to go elsewhere because he's unwanted in his place. In no way has this solved the problem of corruption. In no way will this solve efficiency in the judiciary. It won't solve efficiency by traveling judges and prosecutors. It will not be resolved by the efficiency of the changes in the process that you carry out by cutting deadlines, the rights to declare extraordinary remedies etc. What is happening now is a question of the criteria for selecting the holders of judicial functions. The key debate now in the public, the criticisms that are being presented, are actually whether the criteria are respected. We did not always listen here to people in a general way – I did not choose, my colleague was chosen, but the unselected judges, prosecutors, primarily the judges presented statistics, this is what I say about the expertise, which shows that those chosen do not have such qualities in the statistical data that are very relevant for the selection, of the number of confirmed cases, of the number of cases in the case, of the number of abolished cases, of the number of outdated cases, and this immediately raises doubt as to what the criterion was if the statistics being conducted in the court or in the prosecutions were not relevant for the choice. I think it's one big shadow that fell to the judiciary. We can politically pollute here, and we can take a political turn, because we are talking about the disastrous consequences of the reform, but the professional public has risen, even those who have been elected judges have said in their statements, and you know it well, your colleagues, that it was all non-transparent, all away from the eyes of the public, and even far from the eyes of the professional public. What we want to point out is that one of these big and serious jobs has gone unprepared. We had in the previous period a strategy for judicial reform. It started working on it. It is a serious and large job that has demanded both good analyses and professional analysis and primarily consideration of the consequences of the reform. We have come to the situation that several months after the formation of this government have entered a very large reform, and that simply the consequences of this reform could not be seen. Parts of these consequences are now present. An active rebellion in the judiciary, announcements that this topic will be opened before the higher courts, from the Constitutional Court to the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, and that this will in fact continue in 2010 with the fact that a large number of cases that are in work will not even begin to work. I would like to hear what the plans are for the entire offices of courts that have been abolished at Belgrade level to move objects and what deadlines they are when they can be realistically expected to take place in these changes. We're talking about wanting to increase efficiency. Now we're going to bring the judicial administration into chaos. We'll have judges who will have an incomparably larger number of cases. That's what we were talking about here, I don't want to point out in particular, if we had a continuous increase in the inflow of cases, and we're reducing judges, and we're still moving them to work in other places. I simply did not get an answer from anyone in the judiciary to the question that a judge with an increased number of cases, or prosecutors, representing the indictment elsewhere would be able to deal with the problem. In the towers, I have heard from the ruling majority's representatives an answer that is politically correct, but it is extremely problematic if it comes to judicial reform. It's easier for us to control 38 or 39 of the presidents of the primary courts or prosecutors than the former 160 and something. In fact, it was a motive, a abolishing of courts, easier control of the judiciary through fewer people. That's what you should say, then. As far as the election itself is concerned, we have really not been given any argument that a large number of court presidents, both primary and senior, then municipal, county and commercial, have not been elected in all places. In Somboro, he was not elected judge of the county or county or trade court. That's the case we have in Kruševec, in other places too. People were not elected judges, and they performed an important function in the judiciary. What Mrs. Mesarovic is doing now, they have controlled the whole process and the conduct of one level of justice. People aren't elected and they don't have any reason just because they're the presidents of the court. We didn't get the answers to those questions. Not to say that in some smaller places, small places, where courts have long existed, they've been decimated. Let's say, Raska, of the 11 judges, there are four left. These are problems that are simply not in any way seriously and carefully considered here. In fact, the practical consequences are next. The government has brought reforms, imposed them here, without serious debate, and the problem is that you will have to implement these reforms and the whole burden of January 1st is on you to bring this kind of radical reform to some declared objective of justice and efficiency, what citizens expect most. With a situation like this, with this kind of structure of organization, I don't get into people's choices, people are chosen, the problem is that people aren't chosen, it's really a question -- did you even have to get into this job? We don't think we should have. Is this reform going to have an effect? He will. We will not come to justice, and, above all, if the fairness of this election is questioned and the citizens are daily seen that justice is being disputed and justice is being challenged in the process, can that citizen who does not see justice in the choice to come to justice? It's hardly possible. We instructed the authorities that it was best for the whole process to be reviewed, the judicial reform process. This is the end of a procedure we pointed to last year that would be like this. There was nothing unexpected. It is best to reconsider, to make changes, especially in the law concerning the organisation of courts and jurisdiction of courts, because, I will add one thing, you have even deposed basic courts now. This audit is rising to 100,000 euros. What is the role of basic courts? What are they going to judge? Even the basic courts whose number is reduced by more than two-thirds will lose some... The practical political consequence is that the power of the institution, power, finance, everything concentrates in large cities. You have a drastic example of having 12 municipalities and one court. In Novi Sad, you have a basic court, a senior court, a business court, an appeal court, prosecutors. It's all in the New Sad. Nothing in 11 municipalities outside New Now exists. We're talking about regional development. What would citizens live in these small places, because even basic courts mean nothing? They're all going to rush to big cities. In addition to these judicial consequences, you will also have demographics, regionals and everything else. I ask you once again to consider giving up this concept, to put these laws out of force and to enter into a new debate on justice in a serious and large debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34613	Before I give my word to Mr. Bosco Ristic, I would like to inform you that there are three or four MPs left. It should take a time period of about an hour and a little bit more to finish today's work, so I would suggest we work without a break, so that we can prepare ourselves for the extension of the session by tomorrow to 10:00. Mr. Bosko Ristic has a word. Oh, no? Wrong. Mr. Mirko Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34614	Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the SRS so far have pointed out on many occasions, and it is not worse for me to say this time, that we too have been in favour of reforming the justice system, not only now, but we have always been. We are in favour of reforming the judicial system, a strong and clear and comprehensive reform, a reform in which we would come to the principle of independence of judicial and prosecutorial functions as far as possible. It's clear he's looking for it. It's clear that we haven't been anywhere near it yet, but yet everyone has to show full seriousness, much greater than what it's shown so far, in order to really get to this principle. Ladies and gentlemen, this reform of the judicial system implies, on a slightly simplified note, that an example in which a judge or prosecutor's office is truly an exception, one that will be judged by someone else, who will be held in a drawer, such as sued the deputy prosecutor, some case by order, not to say, a party or political warrant. So, to be really exceptions, not rules. There was a golden rule in the old Yugoslavia. You know, those old accountants, the old MPs remember that, when they embezzled something, the whole charter, the whole town knew about it, in 24 hours. This was exposed to a terrible condemnation to the public. It was stamped first by the public, then by the judicial authorities. Such principles should be pursued, regardless of what some old principle is, so not all apriors are old and related to principles and in this area. On the issues that were just asked -- why here in parliament in this high house, in the Assembly, we are discussing whether a proposed candidate is good or bad, less good or more, whether he meets all those criteria that you have just stated were priority criteria when proposing candidates for judges, as well as for prosecutors, whether they should be discussed in this House at all. It's normal to do that. It is precisely a high home where we will best face opinions and come up with one situation whether a judge's function bearer, who has already been elected, well and adequately elected for that function, is qualified by his qualities according to all the criteria that you taxfully listed to be the bearer of a judicial or prosecutorial function, or not. So here's where it's supposed to be done. If apriors were all ideal candidates in that case, such a question might not even have to be asked here. We're simply not at the time when a decree has set out certain holders of the highest state functions. You know our country has been experiencing it for some time in its history and has been doing it. For this very reason, the congregation is the place where such opinions should be done. In the history of the people of the world, there have always been those people who, by performing certain responsible state functions, have succumbed to certain authority, have been individualised to the person of the president or ruler, or by some collective authority, executive, government, etc. I'm gonna look back on that kind of guy. Unfortunately, unfortunately for us both in the state of Serbia and in its judicial system, certain holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions have not been immune in the present period of this disease very difficult and dangerous, which took place in some party or political indictments, in some cover-ups of numerous cases in the judiciary and the prosecution, in some party or political decisions. They were not immune to any of the judges or prosecutors despite the constant vaccinations they had, and this vaccination was characterized in the principles of the Constitution according to the legal rules, in the principles of independence of the judicial function, in the principles of continuity of judicial function, objectivity, etc. But it seems that this vaccine was more declarative, to say, for certain holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions, that this vaccine was a little less effective than this current Miskovic vaccine, which, by the way, is one of the reasons why this Parliament should also be doing budget rebalancing. All those who are willing to make political decisions, all those who are willing to succumb to the influence of the policy on judicial or decision-making in the prosecution can indeed be called one of the names that are appropriate for such a strain of people, a bit perhaps indignant but adequately, these are simple – influences of the authorities, of the regime. It seems that the translation of a sentence that Sophocles said in his day was just done at a time when such a term was used for these people – sucklers. Namely, to the question that the animal bites the most, Sophocles answered – from the wild slanderers and from the pietious creeps. So, even in ancient Greece, such people or inhumans, better said, are publicly stamped and placed on a pillar of shame. In the state of Serbia, once with a far-reaching policy, both in this area and in other areas of social life, manipulation of human consciousness done through mass media has been done to offend one rule, unfortunately – worse, the better. You've made a situation for another rule in this country, which is that unfortunately, money is all subdued and that, unfortunately again, the learned head is bowing to a golden fool. It's really tragic in some cases, I say, where it comes to what I said before. In some cases, it collapses with individual judges, judges and prosecutors, their honor, character, morals, sense of justice and justice. It's much easier to work with those people whose mental circuit is already destined to do so, whose mental circuit is already such that it is actually subject to certain authority, so that these people are much easier to do these things and to direct them. We know, and we heard a little before the criteria you have set and which were priority in your proposal for the current candidates to elect judges for three years and bearers of the prosecutor's office, however, the question is raised – can you believe the arguments related to the criteria for these candidates? So, in those arguments you taxed and what were the priorities in these candidates' proposal for today's election? Could they be adequate when they are spoken without desire for any malignancy or anything else, when they are spoken by the person who uttered that famous sentence that will enter the history of the Serbian judiciary – ladies and gentlemen, we have received a verdict. We really think that the argument presented at that time as a valid argument for the proposal of these candidates that you have proposed cannot help but doubt at least the justification of such a qualification, therefore, the justification of a qualification that speaks in favour of the fact that this person could have said so. Maybe it was in moments of excitement. Maybe, as our people say, the language went faster than the mind, and maybe the country swore...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34615	People's MP, I remind you of article 103 and the obligation to talk about the agenda, or, please, to link the events that you are currently exhibiting with the attempt to disqualify the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is otherwise not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. So, no personal disqualifications and comments that you are trying to present as an argument in the discussion of a single review of the agenda points we are discussing, so I ask you to stick together to Article 103 which speaks of the obligation to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34616	I have no intention of doing what you told me to do, disqualifying anyone. So, on the formal-legal side, it's totally clear to me, and it's all right, and nobody's saying that any of it's wrong. However, I said that in terms of today's argument regarding the criteria for selecting these judges, for the first time, and for selecting the bearers of the prosecutor's office. Mr. Prosecutor, I'm only going to ask you one question - do you think that these arguments, which you made today as arguments relevant for the election of deputy prosecutors, were used the same time that the prosecutor's choice was made last time, so, when you made the choice of prosecutors? In particular, when, for example, did you make the choice of a prosecutor who, as president of the municipal electoral commission, made a decision on the election of the board of directors, so it was the judge of the municipal court, as president of the electoral commission, without holding a session of the electoral commission? Is it possible that in this country we are calling for justice and justice without such a thing happening? To make evil bigger, Mr. Prosecutor, that same person, Mrs. Jelena Curcic was elected after that, I put it here in the Assembly, however, nothing happened. It was too late. They told me it was too late, and it wasn't too late. Unfortunately, the same person elected eight council members, made a decision on the election of eight committees, without holding any session of the electoral commission. (President: National MP, you have been warned that we are applying Article 103 which speaks of the obligation to talk about the agenda. The topic you are now explaining is the topic of the previous session. This agenda item has been searched, discussed and the session is closed. Please look into the agenda and talk about what's on the agenda now. Thank you. Madam Chairman, I link it to today's agenda, if you have listened well. Mr. Prosecutor, I will challenge the choice of one candidate. Milan Stanojevic, born in 1979 in Belgrade, graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 2003, passed the judicial exam in 2005, the director of the JP "business Area" in Obrenovac, performed the duties of the municipal board, the president of the Commission for Regulations and a member of the permanent composition of the Municipal Election Commission, as well as a member of the Management Board of the Building Land and Construction of Belgrade – under regular number 28. Mr. Prosecutor, Milan Stanojevic has never seen a court. Where are the criteria of expertise, professionalism, etc? What were your criteria when you elected this gentleman to the First General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade? I don't think there are any criteria that can be relevant in selecting this gentleman to the First General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. For these very reasons, I dispute the election of Milan Stanojevic for the First Basic Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Ladies and gentlemen, really on the basis of the criteria you have shown in the past and which you have shown today for the election, or today for proposing certain candidates, I do not think you have convinced anyone in the country of Serbia that you have based your choice or today's proposal on their expertise, on their impartiality, on their objectivity, on their work so far, etc., at least in some cases. How can we believe in the expertise and impartiality, in the end and in the legal knowledge of certain people you have proposed from today's list, not look back at many others because of the lack of time, when you are actually on today's list instead of people who were professional, honest and honest in their work, you have proposed many people who are simply unprofessional, who have worked in some public enterprises, who have no professional qualifications associated with those criteria that you just spoke about? That's why it's really impossible not to say that we, for lack of time, cannot challenge many of these candidates. Furthermore, never more than today's case, I will conclude with this, the eyes of the public were no longer against either the choice of today's candidates or the choice of those you made in the previous period. Never again have Serbia's eyes been against everything the current government is doing. You know, don't let that Russian saying happen in Serbia, and she says -- when the poor become a judge, then the rich have to leave the village. Please bear in mind all of this, know that everything that is going on and about the election of judges and everything that is going on in Serbia is very well followed by all of Serbia's citizens. To all hypocritical and all these answers and ironings by the ruling majority, I can only tell them one rule that applies. They may not hear it today or want to hear it, but I am sure that they will understand it in due time, and it is said: "Let the upper leaf not laugh when the lower leaves fall."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34617	17 minutes of MP time was used. The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34618	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Madam President of the Cassation Court, Mr Radovanovic at the top of the prosecutor's scale, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the judicial reform was necessary. That's what I stood for when I was deputy minister at the Republic Justice Ministry, I stood up for when I was a federal minister of justice, I've stood up for it all the time since I've been a national MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to make a few comparisons. Radje and Dušanka Milinkovic of Nikojevic grew old waiting for justice. The case lasted 33 years because their son died in the military and in 33 years they could not wait for justice to pay the cost, or immaterial damages. So there was a state blocking them to exercise their right in time. The question is, will those who tried in this case be judges or prosecutors or deputies? Furthermore, the question arises – how is it possible that this one judge, who made the verdict in one day and who became a law-abiding judge, could be offered from the municipal court even in a higher court, which is being rewarded? On the same day, a lawsuit was filed through the office and those moles that work in court. The same day he got into the judge's work by acting. The same day scheduled a hearing. The same day he listened to the litigation parties. On the same day, he reached a verdict and the same day, the same day of judgment was just. How is that possible? There's a possible connection, and you know what's behind the relationship. How is it possible, Madam President, for all of them to be similar from one court, all of them to be expert in a small court with seven or eight judges and to remain all and to come to the basic court from a smaller court? When the president of the municipality, against whom more criminal proceedings have been conducted, who was tried by these judges and prosecutors, says - if you don't choose these judges and prosecutors, I and my party go to another party, it's a disaster, it's absolutely illegal. How can you choose a judge who has a private firm? How is it possible to be elected the judge who told the office at the time of the divorce – do not charge me with a state tax not to pay? How is it possible for that judge's son to have his own car shop company, and that the judge conducts desert procedures and that through the funeral service comes to data - who died abroad, and that judge to conduct desert procedures and that several expensive cars are reported through suspicious, forged documents, and that judge has a car transport company? How is it possible that all of the likes of these smaller courts, who tried to steal chickens and bicycles, had 56 to 80 cases, and those who had 300 to 400 cases in larger courts, that they had suddenly become professional, capable and similar and worthy? That's absolutely unacceptable. I'm saying reform was necessary. How come there's only two judges left in one district court of ten? Madam President, no president of the court would have passed this election if the disastrous situation had been in his court. Why? Where was he? What was he doing? Did he take appropriate measures? Did he notify the Supervisory Board, inform the Supreme Court, the D.A.'s office? Are there criminal proceedings or not being conducted? No, no one asked anyone. I advocated judicial reform, and from that point of view, we presidents and prosecutors and some elected judges had tourists traveling from counseling to counseling. They needed Zlatibor, Kopalnik, Vrnjačka Banja, Palic and not to count, even if they were priorityd to travel abroad to specialise on the cost of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll compare what he said, for example, when James II fired Judge Thomas Jones, noting him that he was supported by 12 other judges, and Jones replied that he could surely find 12 judges to support what the king wanted, but that he couldn't find 12 lawyers to support him in his crown. If the law profession in England has always been, even today, the one whose ranks are chosen by the judges, the independent spirit has been born again and spread among the judges, no matter how far they have been replaced. I advocate precisely that professional people come from all structures, but, for example, I have to state the case when I was in the Republic Ministry: a representative of a political party comes and brings a list for judges with a memorandum of political parties. I offered him an open door to come out and never see him again. No political party can play a part in selecting judges and prosecutors, as the prosecution and the judiciary are just a guarantee of bail, justice, freedom, protection of life and protection of property. Wherever you step away from the Constitution, the law and justice, everything is suspicious and everything is risky. For this reason, the SRS considers, and I will remind you that in this election and re-election the Venice Commission, which was held on 17 and 18 March 2007 and said - if there is a guarantee, guarantee and transparency and if the right is given to those who are not elected to receive a valid explanation and, on the other hand, that they can turn to an independent and impartial court to file a complaint. Madam President and Mr. Prosecutor, I believe that everything here has not been very transparent. I doubt you could have gotten all the precise and accurate information, so you could decide in the Council, but there is an urgent need to review all these cases that come from the field and all of this is indicated by the MPs, that this reform begins, but to carry out the review is necessary. The revision here of this election, if people are elected, is necessary wherever you are shown to be profiteers, and that the right and professional people have not come for any other unobstructed reasons, that no injustice be done to any candidate. That is why I think it would be necessary to review all these elections, to re-examine those selected, what they have done, where they have worked, and those who choose, and also their biography and their expertise and origin, because in England the origin and elected judges are determined. Secondly, we've had practice in the past, you know well because you've been in the profession for a long time, the same day is proposed to the National Assembly to elect candidates who were the director of the agricultural cooperative for the judge and the same day becomes the President of the Court. I think we have to say it's the past. We have to have professional people, but don't let these people who are in the judiciary for 35 years, don't get rid of them so easily, don't push them aside. I did that it's suspicious that those who are connected to lawyers, those who have a relationship in parties, those whose godfathers, the prosecutor's godfather, are being tried by a lawyer, and the lawyer is being released for five or six crimes, there's no charge at all, no investigation is being dropped, etc. That there are problems in the judiciary, but I don't give the whole Serbian judiciary to cast a dark light and to say that everyone in the judiciary is corrupt. No, I don't. Individual cases cannot be a general phenomenon, cannot be generalized and therefore individual cases can be dealt with individually, not generally, in the package. In this way, this reform could, on several occasions in a few years, naturally drain people from the judiciary, suffer certain changes and additions. By abolishing so many courts, only in this year if you look at the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with about a billion and a half dinars, the ministry's costs increase to travel costs. From Uzic to go to be a prosecutor or judge in Capac or, as his colleague said, from the Great Plan to go to Vršac. I don't think that's going to work. We've had and claimed we have a good and professional judiciary. We have experts who have really graduated from colleges with great success, we have people who have worked, we still have young people and experts today who have nines and tens, whether they've passed. I'll remind you there what the marriage said in 1946 and Gilas. Gilas said she's good Ozna, and the militia's not bad either. He called the lawyers the greatest enemies of the state and put 722 lawyers on the pillar of shame. He says -- a lawyer who's from the order of judges, lawyers of former prosecutors, police scribes, not to list now, the active military faces of the former Yugoslav King's Army, they are lawyers and they are the greatest enemies of the state. They were tried, most were deprived of the right to practice law, not to count, not to hold you back. I think that this judiciary must be a reflection and the best way to determine the nature of the given political order is to look into the execution of justice and the position of judges, which is to question its independence and impartiality. Woe to a country in which the judiciary is not worthy. You can have the ugly police in one state, the hard regime, but if you have a court at the right height, then you have security for your life, for honor and for property. If you don't have a court, you have nothing. It's that our judiciary can't be more of a law enforcement system and can't mix politics in the judiciary. Do your best, gentlemen, at the top of the highest institutions, the court and the prosecution, try your best to re-analyze, not according to your grandmother or uncles, any objections that will come to your attention from the court, that's the people's objection, the citizen's objection. A lawyer, or judge, cannot terminate a life support contract between litigation parties and then conclude a life support contract afterwards. I can't have the prosecutor and her husband conclude life support contracts, two or three contracts, and the other party loses in the courts. I could do some examples of practice by tomorrow to remind you, but I have to say, for example, from Panchev, not one suitable Slovak has managed to be a prosecutor, to be elected, otherwise he's a longtime deputy, with everything possible, I've asked people, what results he's got. I was told he had extraordinary results. I'm sorry that one such man, just, worthy, honorable, and that's what they say in the Pancheva Justice Building, didn't pass as a deputy public prosecutor. Is there anyone who's managed and because he's a national minority I don't know, I can't say, but I can doubt it. I feel sorry for these individual cases. For example, no one has been chosen by the only law enforcement officer in Panchev. What's it for, and it's got the best results? I wish he had an explanation and a reason why he wasn't elected the only one in Serbia. If he has any guilt against him and others who are not elected, he should be told to both the public that he and he is corrupt, that this and that judge are driving a lawyer's car, that this and that judge or that judge and that prosecutor are going to Dubai for a vacation with a lawyer, that he and that judge are going to Greece, to go to counseling together, to pay women's spas and not to count. It's not a place in the judiciary, it's not a speech. As for the nepotism in the judiciary, let me not forget, take care of it and, to that extent, I remember those years, it was really very unacceptable. In one district court you have a district attorney, a son of a lawyer, daughter of a second-degree council president, that's business, gentlemen. He can't. Our judiciary was mature for reform, just don't put that reform upside down and don't get hurt, I'm afraid maybe those people who didn't deserve it will get hurt. That's the problem, and the public is very upset with this. Surely those who have been dissatisfied with their case will be secure, and the supporters of those who have not been chosen. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious matter. Justice is too serious a matter to be entrusted to anyone, it can't, because, as I said, it's an extraordinary and too serious thing. In times of crisis, there are sometimes serious conflicts between the judiciary and the executive authority or the legislative authority. Especially in systems that make major changes, such as change and reform in the Serbian judiciary. In such a situation, the judges are in a very difficult position: either they will listen to their orders or protect human rights. That's the question. It's important to have confidence in courts and I stand up for it and the SRS stands for it. I remember a SRS official looking for, in my time as deputy minister, that her brother from the municipal court was transferred to the district court, which I also informed Vojislav Seselj about, and that lady from that high office was replaced on the same day. Because there's no intervention from the SRS, because we want everything open, let the citizens know. Let the citizens judge and judge, which is very important. Justice must not only be done, but it must be visible. The law is considered too serious, I repeat, to be left exclusively to judges and judges must have control over what they do. The Supervisory Board, both the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Chief Prosecutors must have control of the inspection, not to send out those who are drunk returning from the courts where they are conducting inspections. They can't be on boards like that. No institution can operate without the existence of responsibility in society. Judges have power, but with power come responsibility for its use. Neither the judiciary, and especially the independent judiciary can exist without judicial responsibility, for failures must be held accountable, for Greeks must be held accountable, for abuses must be held accountable. Gentlemen from the top of our institutions, will you replace the former presidents of the courts and the former prosecutors, the ones who are the most responsible for your situation in the judiciary? That's what I'm telling you. What did the President of the Court do if eight judges out of ten didn't go through with the reelection, what did he do? Couldn't he have followed their work? Didn't he notify the court's superiors? What was he doing? That guy could never be a prosecutor to me again, or a judge. On what grounds? They're responsible for the situation. The Supreme Court can't see everything either, but the one down there, he has to file accounts and report what's going on and what's going on, and who gets litigation through a relationship, and who gets small fines, and in what way? That is what the justice system in Serbia is all about. Where there is doubt, I say in general, and let's not at all claim that the judiciary is corrupt and that it's criminal, it's not in general, but individuals who are corrupt, bring it out in public. Give them the answers, then if you have any evidence... But I'm just doubting something else, I doubt the organs that have been providing you with reports or checks. Were those checks, please, realistic, were they accurate and were there any evidence for that? If there's evidence, you can do it on evidence, but that this evidence is relevant for inadequacy, indiscriminateness, illiteracy, alcoholism and everything else. So I say, ladies and gentlemen, here is missing, heard Mr. Bosko Ristic's suicide said this wasn't reported to anyone so there wouldn't be any influence. Maybe he should've given this to the site who applied to which function he wasn't selected and now it's said he wasn't chosen because he's corrupt, he's not chosen because he's corrupt, he's not chosen because he's unprofessional, because he's incompetent. So, then you have excuses and you are then in a better position to reject any objections that have not been established. Ladies and gentlemen, the main issue here is to whom should be the judicial authority and the control of the judiciary, which means both the judicial and the prosecutor's authority to whom it will belong. Political parties cannot fight whom the judicial and prosecutorial authorities will belong. There is no such state, there is no democracy, there is no independent judiciary, if the President of the Court says, and I am not going to appoint him for certain reasons now -- if you don't elect all the judges and prosecutors, I am going with my members to another political party. What does that tell you? The truth is, what I'm telling you is that from that municipality, from that municipal court, they all went to the basic court, into a bigger city. Is there any evidence? There are other courts with similar situations, which we don't think are fair, it's not real, it's not correct. The one who tried to steal chickens and bicycles in that small court is now coming to judge for murder, for robbery, for robbery theft, for serious physical injuries, or to decide on litigation of property use for perhaps 100-200 000 euros, or 1 million euros. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is for judicial reform to be carried out in an open manner, transparently. Secondly, not to harm the rights or those applying for judges and prosecutors, but not to harm the rights or those not elected, and should be chosen according to their results and their expertise. I don't want to call on any names or names anymore, I think reform is necessary and necessary, but do everything on your part. You can review certain cases and make this reform publicly accepted by both the professional public and even by the judicial authorities, that they appreciate the efforts of the highest authorities, the highest legislative body, the National Assembly. The National Assembly must deal with the passing of appropriate laws. You are missing, gentlemen from the top of the highest court cases, valid laws. First of all, what about the Law of Prosecution? You can see that the audit cannot be invested below 300,000 euros. You see that censorship is too big. You can see that it hasn't increased 17 times, as far as I've calculated, the power of paying citizens and businesses, too, to have the right to invest audits. It was also not increased compared to previous years. It should therefore be borne in mind that the legislative body must address a number of issues. Why is he late for the Executive Procedure Act? You can see it's a blockade. You can see that the debt lobby is at work, that citizens can't get their own lawsuits, that they can't execute where they've had their disputes for up to 20 years. You have room, you have opportunities, you have rights, you have powers, but I remind you, you have great responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34619	From the time of the parliamentary group, 25 minutes and 50 seconds have been used. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. After him, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34620	How much time did you say we had?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34621	The SRS parliamentary group is available for 24 minutes and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34622	I listened carefully to the statements of Mr. Prosecutors and Judges and we of the SRS certainly agree that they are necessary, above all, expertise, professionalism. Reform is also needed. Of course, first of all, we think that the first task in front of our judiciary is to remove political influences. However, I have one remark, and that is a fundamental remark, in the sense that there are political influences within the country anyway, but there is also political influence outside the country. So when you look at it, you can't share political influences within the country and on those outside the country. In that sense, you have not declared yourself, especially Mr. Prosecutor, what your view of one negative case of political influence, the political court, which is constantly glorificing in our public, is constantly presenting this political court as an example. I am responsibly saying that if such a climate continues and the political court is elected, it will have an impact on these candidates and on this topic that we are talking about today. You must know I mean so-called. The Hague tribunal and all I'm saying is I have arguments. I found the arguments in the confessions and statements of the lady who was former prosecutor Carla del Ponte. She openly says that before she came to that post she was never in the former Yugoslavia, that she never knew anything about the former Yugoslavia before she got the post. She openly admitted to applying for a seat in the Roman court, in the International Criminal Court. You certainly know that this is a much more prominent court, that it is a court established in accordance with international law, not an ad hoc court, but a court that was introduced through an international treaty ratified by 60 countries, later and larger numbers, and finally the EU. The European Commission, in its 2001 position, says it is a court to be seen. He's talking about that Roman court, the Roman statute. On the other hand, she was rejected. She couldn't get that position. Only after that became what is known to our public – the prosecutor for the former Yugoslavia. It's scandalous to set an example for our judges, prosecutors, someone who openly says he doesn't speak English, not only does he not speak Serbian, but she has openly stated that she didn't know before she entered the English language.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34623	People's MP, I ask you to respect Article 103 to talk about the agenda and to bring together a selection of prosecutors in international judicial institutions with a agenda point, which speaks of a choice in the domestic...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34624	I was expecting your reaction. I brought in, and the lawyers here know what a causa is, how I brought in that, a negative example of political influence. If you want to take away my word and violate my right to free expression, in accordance with Article 10. European Conventions on Human Rights, it's your right and you can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34625	I just want you to respect Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34626	I respect that member, but you know that we have ratified the European Convention and that it is above all, even the Constitution and the law, because people's rights under the Constitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34627	People's MP, if you're going to tell me that you won't respect Article 103, which implies the obligation of the Members of Parliament to speak on the agenda, then I ask you to make a statement, so we can act on the member who obliges me to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34628	I'm saying I'm talking about the agenda. You claim something else. If you want to take my word, take it, I won't argue with you and argue with you for sure. If you think you're right, and I don't think you are, and I call on the European Convention, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the principle of causes in international and domestic law, take it freely, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34629	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34630	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mesarovic, I must remind you that it would not be burnt to retake a little pen, paper. You already have, Mr. Radovanovic, you did at first, it wouldn't be bad because in this part of the debate I will also talk about some specific names. In the opening statement, as an authorised representative of the SRS, I made general remarks, and now I'm going to say some specific names, so that you can check certain things. You could already see in the first part of my presentation that I have called on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I am now doing, because there is no better platform for reforming the judicial system in Serbia than the Constitution itself. I do not want to challenge this time the Law on Judges, the Law on Prosecutors, the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of Courts, the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, but what we are talking about, what the SRS sees is the reform, i.e. the mandatory and necessary need for reform in the judicial system, is only the Constitution. Certainly, the SRS does not recognize in its special jurisdiction programme. We have come up with a programme relating to the judicial system in our country, with regular courts in charge of everything a court in a particular state needs to do. The judicial function of Article 146(1) states that it is permanent. It can cease in exactly certain cases under the law and the Constitution provided for. I said and I repeat once again that the very first-time judges are elected for three years, and then they will be re-elected or perhaps not, depending on how they turned out during that three-year period. Was it necessary to reform the judiciary? Under judicial reform, more than 100 municipal courts in Serbia should not only be abolished. Now we have one situation that, say, the village of Red Breg near Koseric, over 35km from the very seat of the earlier basic court, has to travel about 30 km to Požega, where there is a basic court. Is that easy, will they get their justice the best way? That'll show time as the best judge. This time, I see not only the reform of the judiciary in such a way that more than 100 municipal courts will be abolished, but I also see it in the selection, or termination of the judicial office of a certain number of judges who have been so far. When we challenged the way of the election today, certainly a number of judges who will not be after 1 January 2010, were not meant to be long ago. A certain number of judges elected deserve to be. Some may have stayed in lower courts, and they have already shown by their work that they deserve a choice in the Supreme Court. There is time, and that may happen for them, but there is a large number of judges left who have not earned it by any of their actions so far. What is your answer, for example, regarding Judge Zoran Rogic, who has not executed an executive solution in the Miskovic-Popovic case for 11 years, so the solution at great cost from the budget was made after the International Court's decision in Strasbourg? You know well, as we know, that in the first degree all court proceedings under EU rules or standards must be completed within two years, and in the second instance they cannot last more than six months. With this number of judges, such a quality of judges, you will certainly not be able to meet what will be the obligation of the Serbian state, and then will address the citizens of Serbia to the International Court in Strasbourg and will be the huge financial costs that this country will have to pay on behalf of or unconscious judges, or perhaps because of a number of cases, they will not be able to handle everything. What a norm you'll be, I don't know, and I can't talk about it right now. It is impossible and I don't know who could give me a quality answer, if not you, Mrs. Mesarovic, how will Svetlana Konstantinovic be tried at the Basic Court in Zrenjanin and the Main Court in Kikinda at the same time? How will Zagorka Petrovic be tried in the primary court in Prijepolje and in the elementary court in Novi Sad? Such decisions were made by the High Council of the judiciary, which again suggests there was influence on the side. The main influence and main positioning in the judicial system did not come from the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors, but came from political parties. A colleague, Jojic, already said that, and we can say a specific name, a senior former SRS official, even a minister, when he tried to intervene in the area of the judiciary, not that he had been relieved of those functions, but that appointment had never occurred in court, and of course the party's senior official was relieved of the post and was later expelled from the party. Such reform in the judiciary and we expect and we want. Or, for example, the High Council of the judiciary has decided that Ranko Bankovic, the recent judge of the Municipal Court in Prokuplje, will be launched an initiative to resolve him for his inadequacy. The congregation majority, first of all DS, at that point was not for that sort of thing. Today we have a situation that will become a judge or elected judge of the Court of Appeal in Nis. I'm sure none of the DS colleagues want this kind of reform, and if they want to, then there's some problem that you didn't want, but if in this way you approach the choice of judges in Serbia, then these mistakes are both deliberate or unintentional, however, but they will have big and serious consequences for removing the negative situation in the judiciary. This is not a good way for any reform, this is just not good for anything. Judge Danko Lausevic, formerly Judge of the Fifth Municipal Court, was elected Judge of the High Court in Belgrade. At one point in time, in particular in 2002, he was asked by the Fourth Municipal Court to forward a number of cases to the Fourth Municipal Court. That didn't happen in seven or eight years, and he was making progress. For Mr. Attorney General, he has one question to consider, or to consider, whether it is true or not that one, the thinking of the people involved in the prosecution and his direct director, the municipal prosecutor, by the way, the doctor of legal science who published several textbooks, the manual, was not elected prosecutor of the General Prosecutor's Office for the reason that he was also the president of the municipality, the president of the DS municipality. We have information, Mr. Radovanovic, that if he had been invited to speak to that prosecutor, I would not have given him his name, you would have been obliged as a state prosecutor to suffer as well as the MPs, as a public figure, and that is Mr. Vekic. Mr. Vekic was invited to see you in 2007 from the Indji municipality. There was talk of a balanced development of the Serbian state in general, and I am already in the opening statement, when I spoke as a representative of the SRS, noting that this was not sufficiently accounted for. We have a situation, I said, in the King of 27 judges, four from Raška, two from Vranjska Banja, and 21 judges from the King. When it comes to the basic court for violations, everyone is from the King, the exception is one, which was chosen from Vranjska Banja. I don't think this is right, and if anyone's ever been a good judge in a law enforcement body before, it's assumed they can continue to do it in the best way. A good judge is what is mandatory and necessary because he decides on very serious things, you know that we have a rise in criminal acts, that we are much more represented by the most difficult forms of crime. This solution requires experienced, good, professional and exclusively judges who will be tried under the law and the Constitution. It will take a time period for those who choose for the first time to enter matter to solve these problems responsibly and in quality. We're expressing a serious suspicion that this will be possible. In two years, when you were already elected President of the Court of Appeals, you could go into reform and leave no doubt at all that it could not be carried out in the most qualitative way, but for the time period of 15 June 2009, when a competition was called for about 2,453 judges, so at the end of July, it was time for the application to be submitted and a significantly higher number of applications submitted, than it is chosen by the judge, it is quite fine, it is nothing disputed and it should have been made on the basis of your programme by December 1st. That's not, that's 18. Do you have an answer for why? There was a similar situation in the D.A.'s office. You later announced a contest for the prosecutor's reception. You assumed something later, two to three months after the publication of the competition for judges, you assumed a much smaller number of interested ones, since there was a much smaller number of places left, and then there was a shorter period of time, perhaps you could have been more quality for that period to carry out the analysis, but surely there was no time left for either a month or the best choice of judges. Mladen Tipsarevic studied Law School for 11 years, and here we have proposed candidates who had to leave the court's internship or were fired because they did not pass a judicial exam, so they did so later, so today they are proposed to elect judges for the first time who are elected or some of them may be a judge for violations. I suppose, Mrs. Mesarovic, that you could intervene in one part because it appeared as a potential problem. By the way, there's also a contest for the reception of jury judges. Candidates who submit the documentation prescribed or prescribed by the Regulation must also apply medical assurance to possess general health skills. A large number of them intervened because they did not know whether they would be admitted or not, to consider it as complete documents, and one who was accepted as judge of the jury to subsequently provide medical assurance. If he can't provide for any reason, then you can make a list of other candidates, but that should definitely be done. The best rule is the rule in which a man rules under the law and that could and should apply to all judges, but the way they are elected will certainly not be so. I must repeat once again, when it comes to the County Court of Capac, the former, and now the Supreme Court in Sapac, it is not possible that only 13 candidates will be re-elected to the Supreme Court and that the President and six other judges have not been elected. It is openly and publicly said in Šapec that the Supreme Court has joined the DS in the distribution, in the staffing, in the management, in the introduction of personal solutions, and in the Supreme Court of the SPS. I don't put it as a done deal here, but what was taken into account, and probably the people who work in the judiciary best recognize it, and know which judges are tried under the law, who judge in some other way and who the judge is in what kind of relationship with lawyers. What Jojic said, which judge drives a lawyer's car, that's what you've been confirming, it seems to me, Mrs Mesarovic, that you know that there are such cases, so take a look at it in the next period. None of you can expect to release by magic wand, you in court, and Mr. Radovanovic in the Prosecutor's Office overnight. If you have now accepted something that has been a major political influence in the reform of the judiciary, in personal solutions, try to get rid of it as soon as possible, get out of those claws, and that according to the judge's law. And if you were to try and get rid of judges, which we used to insist on, to get rid of those judges who are unworthy, those who are not professional enough before the time when these judges are elected for three years, I mean, and those who have permanent judicial functions, not waiting for the only condition of their retirement to be their only condition, no, no, no other natural condition to come to terms. Make sure our laws don't become spiders that big flies go through, and the little ones stay in them. It means only the law and by the law everything to be tried.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34631	From the time of the parliamentary group, 15 minutes and 40 seconds have been used. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34632	You have injured, Mrs. Komic, a member of 27th and a member of 106th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Dejan Mirovic spoke in a very civilized, cultural and reasoned way about the agenda point. He did not approach the speaker without being enabled to do so, nor did he give details of any individual’s private life, nor did he give insults, nor did he insult anyone. Without any basis in the Rules of Procedure, you denied Mr. Dejan Mirovic the right to complete his presentation. The Rules of Procedure only stipulates what the MP must not do when he speaks, and how he will speak about the subject on the agenda is his business. Mr. Dejan Mirovic considered the way he chose the best possible. You were the only one who had an obligation to let him finish his exposure. However, you, for our completely unknown reasons, have violated the Rules of Procedure and prevented Mr. Dejan Mirovic from completing his presentation. You could see, Mrs. Komic, from the registered list of speakers that, practically, Mr. Dejan Mirovic was the last speaker. You didn't let the MPs take a break. The DS MPs didn't want to talk about this subject. So you weren't in any tea. You could have let Mr. Dejan Mirovic raise one question that was and how to relate to the agenda point. Allow me, the former UN chief prosecutor, as well as the current chief UN tribunal prosecutor, to receive the highest judicial authority officials in Serbia in the official audience. That's a fact. For the SRS, the issue of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, i.e. the process before the UN tribunal, is of course significant, but it is also important for all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34633	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no breach of Article 27 or Article 106, and I'm pretty sure you know that. By looking at the stenogram, you will see that I have applied the Rules of Procedure and reminded MP Dejan Mirovic of his obligation under Article 103, which is to speak about the agenda. Like every time I remind the MPs, understanding the creative relationship and the desire for their discussion to be well presented by argument, to bring about the topic, which is the choice of prosecutors in international judicial institutions, with what is on the agenda, MP Dejan Mirovic replied to me to call for international documents. Not interrupting his time, and experience tells us all to make it up to him, I reminded him that we were bound to respect the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dejan Mirovic, you can see by looking at the stenogram, asked me to take away his word, because he wants to speak on the basis of... National MP Momir Markovic throws away, which is a violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is forbidden. National MP Dejan Mirovic said he did not want to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly but in accordance with international documents, which, under the obligation of members of the 27th and advocacy on the agenda, I reminded him once again to bring his discussion into line with Article 103, which binds us, and MP Dejan Mirovic, with his will, interrupted his presentation and I thanked him. Since the SRS parliamentary group is still at the disposal of seven minutes and 20 seconds, MP Dejan Mirovic can use his time, since you have no more applications, and speak in accordance with Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the subject of the agenda, if they so wish. No one in this congregation will be denied the rights and no one in the congregation will be allowed to neglect the duties and obligation of respect for the documents that bind us all. So if you want, of course, to have seven minutes and 20 seconds at your disposal. You're registered. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34634	I'd like a replica, since you mentioned my name several times and misread it. I didn't say that...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34635	People's MP, you do not have the right to reply to the explanations I have under my obligation under the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament who asked to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you want to demean the National Assembly, to violate the reputation of the National Assembly, you have at your disposal to act on other members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges me and you to prevent the demeaning, violation of reputation and ridicule of the procedures to which we are obliged. So, you have your seven minutes and 20 seconds to talk about the agenda, including taking these 49 seconds as much as I used to remind you of what's going on during the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34636	Do I have the right to a replica or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34637	National MP, I warn you, before giving a warning measure, that you are currently seriously disrupting the reputation of the National Assembly, you are seriously jeopardizing the course of the National Assembly session. Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34638	You've injured Article 104, Mrs. Comic. I doubt that in the National Assembly, of course I respect all the MPs, there is a calmer, more tolerated and civilized MP than Dejan Mirovic, and you now have such a brutal relationship with him that it is simply amazing. So neither Mr. Dejan Mirovic intends to insult anyone's dignity, especially the dignity of the National Assembly, has brought just one notorious thing that you, as vice president of the Assembly, should know. Ratified international contracts are bound by all state authorities, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34639	People's MP, I ask you not to insult the dignity of the National Assembly in an explanation, you're making a mockery of the fact that this assembly has brought a Rules of Procedure, which binds us all. Throwing out a mockery of the National Assembly session implies an argument that you want to determine that the international documents, which Serbia has signed, can be applied to the course of the session. Please don't do this. I warn you not to do that. Proceed with the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34640	I really don't know what to say. I'm amazed at the information I got from you. It turns out that international contracts in Serbia apply everywhere, except in the National Assembly that ratifys these same...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34641	People's messenger, I give you your first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34642	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Thank you. I thanked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34643	You've got 40 seconds to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34644	I'll thank you for the third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34645	I thank you, too. Since your parliamentary group has seven minutes and 20 seconds at their disposal, the MP who wants to use that time at your disposal on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is asking to sign into the electronic system and you will get the word. Does anyone want to use the entire time of the SRS parliamentary group? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? In the electronic system, MP Cedomir Jovanovic was reported. It's been at your disposal for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34646	Mrs. Komic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mesarovic and Mr. Radovanovic, this was a very strange debate today. What is encouraging is that common finding that the situation in the judiciary must change, that judicial reform is necessary. Depending on the position of those who are talking about the reform, the degree of mistrust is growing in the way it will be implemented. What I don't think should be ignored is the fact that this mistrust stems from almost personal experience, and in fact, from the fact that everyone is more or less always with the best intentions of abuse of justice and that kind of political patriarchism is something that we have to deal with, and then overcome something like that. As the Assembly is very difficult to bear the government's ambition to be the patron of what we are doing here, so I believe that the judiciary is also very difficult to deal with the ambition of the Assembly that freedom, which it has previously given, is under the condition that the word of parliament will be the last. Now I think you're in a difficult position because you're victims of that silence in which the ruling majority is trying to change relationships in society without talking too much about their essence. The criticisms that have followed everything the High Council of the Judiciary has done and what has been done by the State's Major Prosecutors are, however, absolutely certain of that, more than in much of what I've talked about here in the Assembly, the banal relations of importance. Therefore, it would be important for both the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors to solve these several cases mentioned here. When the country's 2,500 judges are elected, it is indeed the fact that the whole process is being brought down to five or ten controversial cases that are marginal and that it must not be pushed into another plan that this big step has been taken here after all. I'm sure it's a step forward. We can't not talk about the state of society. The fact that there are last lines of defense, I would not only say party policies, but one system of values that has deformed generations in this country. Practically condemned all of us to be the contemporaries of the most monstrous state at the moment. A country that continues to believe that the right of its citizens and society is always in the second plan, that we are all actually obliged to be cannon flesh of that state, prosecutors and judges, and generals of the police and generals of the army, professors, students, MPs, party presidents, presidents of the state, and we must reverse that wrong system of values. We know very well what is the standoff of what we have called a criminal association. Many who have raised their voice in the last few days need to look at that wide picture. When they come out on the street to look around and they'll see around them those who've been convicted by the courts for about 40 years because they've been looking for it, and they're on the run and they're on the loose. They should see war criminals who have their positions in institutions, if not higher institutions, then in parallel institutions. It's this wrong system of values that can't be changed by one decision, and this is an important change. Much is reduced to criteria, but I don't think parliament can discuss criteria in a democratic society. You took responsibility for that. As parliament is not untouchable, neither is the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State's major prosecutors untouchable. That's just as clear. The ambition of Parliament to be the one to whom the accounts are held, by which someone has decided whether or not the judge is worthy, is, in fact, the repetition of past mistakes, and it is very difficult to recognize us as those we did not agree with in the past, and they had the same ambition. Once again, we must show great respect for the people who will do this job, the judges who will leave the environments in which they have worked for years, go to some new, prosecutors, their families pay the price of these changes, pack bags, move from the environments in which they lived, children interrupt school. That's what parliament should think about when it imitates someone and criticises someone. Apparently there was no place for all the judges, there were those who deserved our absolute respect, and they're not on this list. The reason why we respect them does not have to be the reasons why the High Council of the Judiciary should (President: Six minutes). ) space in the new organisation of the judiciary and for this first, thank you very much for those who have done their job fairly, and then we all need to see where they belong in this society and how they can continue to do their job. Once again I ask you to review these marginal examples of judges who are related to lawyers, judges who are controversial about decisions in the past, because they are also below the line of statistical error in each business.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34647	Anyone else want a word? The word has been given by MP Bosko Ristic, time is available for a minute and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34648	First of all, I would like to address the public and say why no judge in Raška was elected, because there was one mistake, but not the High Council of the judiciary, but the candidates who sent all their applications over the third party and those applications came incomplete, without any evidence. Such claims could not be handled, as the judges felt they were judges and did not go to the first choice, so they did not need anything more than a personal list to choose from. They made their own mistake and the High Council had no room to change that. I also want to address all the judges who are elected today, and that's this list. I want to tell them that they should make sure that they are all equal before the law and that they think seriously about both MPs and ministers, and their bodyguards, they should all answer to the law when they are in such a position. Also, this parliament should not be a safe house for criminals and that immunity protects those who trespass against the law and to the detriment of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34649	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his membership rights in 93 wants a word? National MP Sreto Peric, time is available for one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34650	If we can and should thank our colleague, Bosca Ristic for what we talked about this time, he confirmed it as true. It means that no one has been elected judge in certain places. We're not going in now, we didn't have anyone on the High Council of the Judiciary to indicate the reasons. There's one more thing, colleague Ristic, which you didn't mention, which is now, but you talked about it before noon and I don't dispute your time on TV and here, you have it as a national MP, as a representative of the party, you were an authorised representative of the DS. You said that a certain number of judges, very high-quality, and I assume that you personally know what judges are concerned about and which judges I don't think they were chosen for reasons they applied to significantly larger functions. That's not true. They applied and applied to those places you think they did and applied to places in the courts where they worked until then. And you should have said that, only correctness for those judges, and the High Council of the Judiciary will have to for the sake of conscience. I dare, Madam Chairman, once again to say, because of my conscience that some arguments, which is why a certain number of judges will no longer bear that function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34651	National MP Bosko Ristic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34652	I think I've been very clear, my colleague, because there really are judges and prosecutors who have applied only for more appeals courts or that the current Supreme Court judges only applied for the Supreme Court of Cassation, although we know that the Supreme Court of Cassation was created by the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Cassation and Appeal. It is a matter of the High Council of the judiciary where it is absolutely autonomous to appreciate the existence of the criteria and there is an examination of the essence of the division of power, where parliament and the executive power do not have the right to interfere in the decision of the High Council of the judiciary when applying the criteria. It is clear that some court officials were unable to obtain this moment of trust for some of the highly targeted functions, unless they met all those criteria that were publicly published and were brought on a proposal from the Society of Judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34653	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his membership rights in 93 wants a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I ask if the representatives of the motionary, Nata Mesarovic, President of the Supreme Cassation Court and President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, wants a word or Slobodan Radovanovic, president of the State Council of Prosecutors? The word is Nata Mesarović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34654	I thought that we would discuss the established agenda and my referendum might have been short for you because I followed what was written today, believing that the High Council of Justice and that the Serbian judiciary had first received an independent body that would be able to decide who would be the judge in Serbia. I speak only on behalf of the High Council of the Judiciary, not on behalf of the State Council of Prosecutors. Also, I want to tell you, just because I think that many citizens of Serbia are following this National Assembly meeting today, I will answer certain questions. As for the incomplete composition of the High Council of the Judiciary, I don't think that criticism could possibly suffer the High Council of the Judiciary. It is not only proposed now that Professor Tomic, a respected professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, has already discussed a member or representative of a law school that should be involved in the work of the High Council of the Judiciary. I know that none of the proposed candidates have received enough votes. Some candidates have received a negligible number of votes moving below number 10. Therefore, it means that both the opposition and the position did not find it necessary and did not respect the applicant, believing that these candidates do not meet the conditions to be members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Secondly, I will explain to you why the High Council of the Judiciary was late with the choice of judges and the proposal of judges to be elected for the first time. First of all, you know that a set of judicial laws was passed last year at the home of the National Assembly. I think most of today's debate was supposed to be conducted and taken care of. The deadlines that oblige the High Council of the Judiciary have been established, and the reform, as the High Council of the Judiciary understands it, not only speak on my own behalf, but I am a representative of the members of the High Council of the Judiciary, was to create an effective judiciary, a transparent judiciary, to allow the even distribution of cases in all courts in Serbia and that each judge works for the same salary a number of cases that cannot be drastically different. Because in Serbia, you now have judges who worked and had 50 cases a year and some judges who worked in Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis, who had over 350 or 400 cases in work. I think it was time to put a point on it once, that the judiciary works in the best way, to create an effective, independent, transparent judiciary and to allow equal access to justice for all citizens. Also, I cannot accept the criticism that we have been influenced by the ruling coalition, I don't know how to say it, because I don't deal with politics, but obviously most of the MPs who talked about it today were in error or you think we're not professional enough, that we are inexperienced and that we should not have been entrusted with that function. This is especially meant when it is known that six judges who are members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary have just been elected by passing the democratic procedure of proposing by colleges of courts of certain actual jurisdiction, and then elected in the National Assembly. So that's not the problem with the High Judiciary Council either. I saw that some MPs, who came and told me that my report was brief, and then went in an unknown direction, were not informed, nor were they following means of public information, printed media, or electronic media. Nothing the High Council of the Judiciary did was secret, but transparent. So, decisions on the number of judges needed to do business in Serbia have been made public in "The Official Messenger" and in the means of public information, in "Politica". The decision on criteria was also made public through the "Official Messenger" and public information means, so that all judges knew in Serbia under which criteria they would score. You know for a fact that the Society of Judges at the time, when these decisions were announced, called on its membership not to apply and not participate, but the members of the board of directors themselves had just applied to certain top seats in the Serbian judiciary. Therefore, all that rebellion over whether the laws are good or not by the Society of Judges, I can tell you that something that is very surprising to me. The members of the Society of Judges or the Management Board, because they cannot talk about a whole organisation numbering over 1,500 judges, but they can talk about those who are the most senior management, participated in the adoption of all the laws of the set of judicial laws and made their proposals and it is their proposal to have judges elected in the Assembly for three years. It was not the proposal of any other judicial authority, but the Society of Judges. The judge's society also envisioned disciplinary responsibility, which will be established for all judges in Serbia, and the High Council of the judiciary will have its own disciplinary commission. Therefore, they had to follow what was expected. The only thing they didn't think and what was the beginning of where they participated, they sought only and exclusively reform of the Supreme Court of Serbia. However, when the state decided to reform the entire judiciary, which is the goal, because citizens most of their rights are being exercised in municipal or future basic courts, they realised that they would be hit by the reform and that their results would be measured, as well as the results of all judges in Serbia. I think it's only fair and only transparent. I also said that publicly at a press conference that was held on Thursday, when all lists of elected judges were published in the presence of Judges of the Supreme Court who were not elected. So there was nothing secret about it and there was no reason to suspect those who were doing this procedure and that we are now being brought to a pillar of shame because we found that some people do not fall under the criteria. I don't want to make a promise for this speaker to anyone that out of these vacant seats that remain in the judiciary will be first and that those judges who have not been elected will be favored. This applies only to those judges who could not fit the number of judges who were published, and not to those who, of course, have found that they do not meet one of these conditions. Then it would be easier than the whole process, and then we would put ourselves in a situation if you just didn't know and work under someone's influence. I will never accept such a role as the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the High Council of the judiciary. Also, I want to explain to you that the criteria - the husband of the lawyer and the wife of the judge - were not the criteria of the High Council of the judiciary to eliminate some candidates. There are countries in Europe, such as Switzerland, where these criteria are laid down by law, are publicly published and these criteria are applied both to blood relatives and to husband and wife. You know, there's a possibility of influence on judges in a variety of ways, but if we wanted to introduce such a criterion and behave inappropriately, then we would rule out those judges whose children are lawyers, and we happen to have a list of judges whose two sons are in law enforcement, or we have a brother and sister, etc. That wasn't a criterion. The criteria are something else. Personal reasons are determined for each individual judge. I didn't think we should talk about this today. I hear it in public too, and today it's been repeated more than once that the judge is not being created easily. I totally agree with that. It takes at least five years for a good judge to have a high-quality judge in all those forms as it takes for a man to rule matter completely and to do so. I cannot accept, too, the finding I heard here today that it could provide reforms in the Serbian judiciary with a natural drain, i.e. the retirement of people. It just couldn't have happened. Also, it could not have happened within the framework of the work of the Supervisory Board and the High Court of Justice of Serbia. The results of these two organs are very low. Personally, I am completely dissatisfied with their work, because we have situations that still stand before the Constitutional Court of Serbia today, in front of the Strasbourg court, that many judges have received haste from some of the presidents to do so, to act on the complaints of citizens on certain cases, that they did not do so, and afterwards, such judges have gone through and are not put on a motion to resolve at all or to give them any disciplinary action. The simple public must know and thus could not reform Serbia's justice system. I can also confirm to you that the High Judiciary Council has not ordered that any judge in Serbia travels from place to place if the judge has not applied to that court. Maybe it was the State Council. Which are their reasons I don't know, but the High Council of the Judiciary never invited any candidates to compete for a place later, as presented here in the Assembly today, that some candidates may not have applied at all or that they later applied. I don't know about cases like this, and I'm sure I'd have to know because I've attended every session of the High Court Council. I can quite plainly say that no one has ever done so much work before. What is mentioned is that there were 5,500 or up to 6,000, as is often mentioned in the public, applications for the election of judges, I can tell you that there were not 6,000 candidates, there were far fewer candidates, and neither can time be measured three minutes and five minutes. After all, we've all worked long in that judiciary, we know each other, and we know who's professional, we have three months, and six months, and yearly and all kinds of analysis of our work, we have some other knowledge. As far as dignity is concerned, the criterion is fully explained in the decision on the measurements and criteria applied to judges. I'm just surprised that you as MPs, as the voice of citizens here in the Assembly, some of you are not familiar with that. The only thing I can say about the criticism that we've chosen is that I'm very sorry to mention it, but maybe you can interpret it in another way than it did here, that a judge who passed away in Požega has been elected. The High Council of the Judiciary was not informed. As soon as I found out, a man passed away on October 28th. The president of that court did not find it necessary to inform either the Supreme Court president or the Supreme Council of the judiciary that the man had passed away. I cannot accept his finding that in such a small court it was not known that one judge applied for the place of judge, when it was known that all the judges from that court applied, that in that court there was the smallest number of seats and none of the judges of that court applied for any other court in the area so that they could deploy. Therefore, I consider such a mistake to be technical, and status issues prove only on the basis of written evidence, not on the basis of oral words. I can also tell you that there have been various kinds of notification of certain situations, but we can't accept the phone notice that someone like that is. I will refer only to candidates you claim participated in election thefts in 1996 and 1997. I can't give you the exact information for all of them, I'll check it out, but I do know that some candidates from the pleasure area, mentioned here, that they're being prosecuted, that criminal charges have been dropped, and that after that, damaged as a prosecutor, they've been prosecuted, and that it's ended by suspending criminal proceedings, so they don't leave a lie to those people. As far as the mentioned concrete candidate from the Prokuplje court is concerned, it was not before this House of the National Assembly that the procedure for its resolution was initiated from the judge's post, but rather the procedure for its resolution was initiated from the seat of the President of the Court. Do you know that the National Assembly also chooses the presidents of the courts? As for these delays of ours, I told you, the High Council of the Judiciary was awaiting a decision, given that the Society of Judges submitted an initiative to assess the constitutionality, given that there was an earlier continuity of the judicial function, it exists, and this discontinuity also applied to the judges of the Constitutional Court, so I don't see why it wouldn't apply to our judges. So, as soon as the Constitutional Court, and we said in advance that we would respect every decision of the Constitutional Court, said that the general choice of judges was constitutional, then we just announced a decision on how much the judge is necessary in Serbia. Also, as for the observation that you do not know how this number of judges will operate the judiciary in Serbia, I say - give us a chance to show that this number of judges can also be handled in the Serbian judiciary system. Much larger countries allow with fewer judges to work, this is also an example of England, and an example of America and many other countries in the world. But procedural laws need to be applied. You know how, if you let the hearings be postponed and searched because you're asking for the concentration of evidence, and not every time you hold a hearing or search, so you can take out the evidence that's available to you and that's how you turn the cases faster, that's a fact that can be determined by a review of the courts. I also sent extraordinary control to a large Serbia district court this summer, where such remarks were made. I can tell you that the results of such a congenital condition were surprising to me, as if I had never worked in court. But that's what happens, and then don't expect me to tell you that all courts work in Serbia and judge within a reasonable period of time and respect deadlines. I can tell you that was the only thing that applied to these special departments of the Belgrade District Court that some disagree with. I, of course, do not ask that we all think the same, but there are sent controls by judicial officers in Serbia and there are circumstances being examined, whether the deadlines for the appointment of the case are respected there, even though everyone knew well, because these trials were being followed publicly. Therefore, from what the High Council of the judiciary has done, I expect you to give us support and help us in the best way, by proposing candidates we have proposed to the National Assembly to choose them over a three-year period. Because the fact is, we've chosen the best ones. Not only was it an average rating that these candidates were measured, but it was also the length of study one of the criteria, so if someone had studied longer and had a high grade, it was reduced again, etc. It's all meant by the rules, and whoever wanted to get to know each other could. The public of experts could meet at any moment, because the High Council made all its decisions publicly, published them publicly, and we talked about it publicly. The only thing I'm sure of after today's discussion is the fact that MPs expected to continue to decide on the choice of judges in Serbia who choose the High Council of Justice. I can certainly tell you that the minister of justice, as a representative of the executive government, has only his own voice that can give a particular candidate, but not at all, as you said, that the High Council will vote as someone tells him. It's a fact that's not true, and I wouldn't want to take it any further. For all those candidates who have not been elected, I can only say that they will be able to exercise their right to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, using a constitutional appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-23-0.u34655	Does the word want Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic? (No) In that case, I am concluding a joint uniform search on the motion for a decision to elect judges to a three-year term in the courts of general and special jurisdiction, with a correction of 21 December 2009, a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, a request for the termination of the office of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the public prosecutor, a motion for a decision to suspend the office of a public prosecutor, a proposal for a candidate for an election member of the First Chamber of the High Council of Justice, and a list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. I thank you for your participation in Mrs. Nati Mesarovic's session, the president of the Supreme Cassation Court and the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as well as Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic, the president of the State Council of Prosecutors. This concludes today's work and continues the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours by searching in particular, and by the first item of the agenda from the joint principle debate. Just an extra notice. Today, in the National Assembly, a screening of a feature documentary film about our famous scientist, the great of our science, Milutin Milankovic, was scheduled to take place at 2 pm in Mali Hall. The notice I received around 2.30 hours is that the projection shifts in 15.00 hours and all MPs are invited to attend the screening. Since I know the work of Milutin Milankovic, my personal and warm recommendation is to enjoy the story of the great of our science. Thank you.
