ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28846	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that we have working conditions, according to Article 88(2). Requesting notification pursuant to Article 235. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate, Article 235(2) shall apply. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or the right of the Members of the People, to seek information and explanations. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic. The issue will refer to something that is very much related to the still current visit by Turkey's president, Serbia. We see that today there will be some forum on the economic perspective of Sandzak. I don't know why you don't say, say, Raske areas. I don't mind saying Sandzak either, but if we're talking about the regionalisation of Serbia and everything else, why not economic co-operation with Subotic, but, in particular, with that area alone? Lately, the last few months, frequented visits, now the Turkish president. A month ago, he was Turkey's foreign minister, who, otherwise, said in a statement recently that Turkey would work to make some kind of integration, even state unity. He called it a new Ottoman state, literally in those words, from Turkey to Bosnia, and lately, he's been a frequent guest of our country. Also, frequent guests of our country are Turkish military representatives, chief of staff, and our defence minister was recently in Turkey as a guest of the defence minister and of the Turkish army. Something very strange is happening. At a time when NIS decides to, together with an American company, make a completely new refinery in Serbia of 450m euros, which would satisfy the needs of the entire former Yugoslavia, and beyond, which will satisfy the needs of the entire region's derivatives, it is persistently imposed, although the realization of it has not yet come to the town of Smederevo, because the citizens of Smedereva have rebelled, to make a refinery by a company that has never produced a bolt in its history, which has 150 dollars of founding capital, and it is called "Komiko Oil". This refinery should be made for about 200 million dollars, without the existence of a port, and some pipes from the Danube unloading crude oil, imagine, from Nigeria, that the derivatives are then processed with us. You don't know the capacity, and you don't know what that refinery would serve for. Such refineries, I inform you, which cost $200 million, are installed and there are three such ones in Afghanistan. There's a lot of talk that it's actually a refinery for the needs of the U.S. military at KIM. I come to my question, to which I expect an answer from the Prime Minister, from the Deputy Prime Minister and the Home Secretary. Since 16 September, I've been waiting for a written document, protocol, on the co-operation of our police force with Eulex, and until today, I haven't received it in the original text. I'll ask for it on the Defense and Security Committee. I will seek, if necessary, and through the trustee, Mr. Shabic. I hope to get an answer to this question. There is information that, following the US's abandonment of missile shields in Poland and the Czech Republic, plans to create missile shields in the territory of KIM and Turkey, using our radar system in Kopalnik, which is not even on the territory where the administrative line with KIM is, with some of the work done by them on the system. So my question is because there are indicative visits by Turkish representatives to Serbia, and I ask the president to answer me - whether he has any information from the US ambassador, BIA, VBA, about whether the US is really planning to install part of the missile shield on our territory, i.e. on KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28848	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28849	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two questions. I would like to refer the first question to the president of the state, Mr. Boris Tadic, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Mr. Energy Minister Skundric, Mr. Infrastructure Mrkonjic, Serbian Director, Mr. Bajatovic, and Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, so who wants to answer from them. By 2000, while the SPS was in power, Serbia bought gas from Russia so that it could remain in debt. We paid when we got there. He's still 187 million dollars in debt. In 2003, Mr Djelic, returning from Moscow, held a press conference at the airport and said, "We have resolved the Russian debt." However, the Russian state has never ratified the agreement, i.e. the agreement, and the debt remains in the books of the Serbian firm, and the Russians continue to seek out the old gas debt. I ask the question to all those who participated in these conversations that I mentioned – did you during that one-day "great" visit, to the great force, did you ask President Medvedev, did you ask his associates and all those who were accompanied – what about the old Russian debt? Why am I saying this? The value of "Serbigas" is estimated at 160m euros, or dollars. Our old gas debt to the Russians is bigger. What happens if a Russian partner, who owns NIS 51%, who already owns 51% of the joint owner of the company that will one day be formed, wants to buy "Srbigas"? Remember, "Srbijagas" started buying companies in Serbia: Azotar, Glass Factory, Belgrade Informatics. I ask the question – has anyone asked the Russian side what about the old debt Serbia has towards Russia? How will this, as Mr Djelic said, be resolved, and then he said it was settled? I ask the second question directly to President Boris Tadic -- who deceived him, who deceived him, and thus deceived Serbian citizens, at risk of public interest? There's a lot of people in this room who talked about it. Most of all, we heard about it from a party that is now a coalition partner of DS and from a party that was previously a coalition partner – that Serbia will earn from gas transit fees through the South Stream 200m euros annually. That's a lie. The memorandum that Serbia signed with Russia clearly states that it is a commercial contract between two companies – "Serbiagas" and "Gasproma", with 49% participation of "Serbigas" and 51% "Gasprom". When we buy, when our gas comes from Hungary, we pay not transit to the Hungarian state, but to the Hungarian MOL. So it will be the same, because there will be no transit fees, which is clearly seen from this memo. Who deceived President Tadic, hence the Serbian public, that we would make so much money when the South Stream was built? The commercial contract signed makes it clear to whoever manages the joint venture, who will form the "Serbiagas" – South Stream – and "Gasprom" to show only profits. As it is managed by public companies in this country, all citizens see, so 130 million dinars were given to trumpets the other day. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: What's wrong with trumpets? ) There is no cost, Mr. Todorovic. So, who deceived President Tadic when he told him that we would make a profit out of taxes, because we will not make a tax, but rather earn a joint venture, which at the end of the year will show profit, and at the end of the year can show or not – we saw it when it comes to the final account of the NIS for 2008, we are an hour in plus, we are at minus, depending on how it corresponds to those who rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28850	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry there isn't a minister of justice here, since the first question should be addressed to the very minister of justice, so let it be done in writing. I ask the question – how can the EU flag be highlighted in the office of State Secretary Slobodan Homen? This directly violates Article 30(4). The State Marks Act, which reads: "The flag of the Republic of Serbia is on the right hand side, in front of the flag of the foreign state or international organisation, if the flag stands out in the Republic of Serbia, during the official visit of the authorised foreign or international organisation representative." Only if Free Homen isn't a foreign citizen. It's just amazing and amazing how our official civil servants behave. If you could sue, file charges or criminal charges, what you've already done, because Boris Tadic was at the stadium, I don't think Slobodan Homen should enjoy more protection than Boris Tadic. The procedure should be initiated. First of all, so this never happens again, secondly, because he broke the law. The second question I ask the foreign ministry – what will it do and how will it react to Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu's statements in Sarajevo? When you look at what he said and what Boris Tadic says, you simply can't believe – either Boris Tadic is absolutely uninformed, or he's going through some things that can't be crossed. How can it be crossed when Turkey's foreign minister says Turkey's policy is aimed at the rise of the Ottoman Balkans? Has Boris Tadic been informed of this statement by the foreign minister? It says: "Turkey is responsible for BiH. We will build a Balkan Caucasus, the Middle East, along with Turkey. “ He also said that history, fate and the future of Turkey and BiH are common, as is BiH's territorial integrity for Turkey as important as Turkey's territorial integrity. Is that what he warns that Turkey will react as if someone were attacking her territory? What about Republika Srpska? Does Turkey mean that the Republika Srpska is part of the Ottoman Balkans and that Turkey should lead foreign policy accordingly, because it does not? Turkish Foreign Minister says "We want a new Balkan region, based on political values, economic interdependence, co-operation and cultural harmony -- that would be the Ottoman Balkans. We will restore this Balkans. The Ottoman Balkans are a successful story, so now it needs to be restored. “ But there is one thing we know. Maybe the Turkish Minister doesn't know. During their success story, we've been in slavery for nearly five centuries. We freed ourselves from this slavery. Does Turkey suggest that this situation could happen again? How can such a country be our strategic partner? Is there anyone normal in this country who runs this country? Tell me what would happen if we referred a question to the Turkish president -- how do they solve the Kurdish issue in Turkey? Would it be a interference in Turkey's internal affairs or not, or would Serbia have the same right to address internal affairs issues, as Turkey does? I understand that Turkey deals with issues of their national minority in KIM, which is extremely endangered, but it wasn't a single word, when it comes to KIM...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28852	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28853	I have a question for the Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, which is for all of you who are now leading Serbia, thanks to the gathering of votes you have in the Serbian Parliament. I know you're too busy these months to fill the budget with loans, loans, courting international and financial institutions, cutting off everything human and social remains in the tracks of the previous dictatorial regimes you inherited, so you brought us this democracy. I have to ask, where did you lose that care of an ordinary man, especially of young people, especially of minors, of high school students and elementary schools? I know that your coming to power is a demented system of values in Serbia, that what was morale today is almost immoral, what was immoral, today you're declaring to be the highest morale, but you really can't take it anymore. I spoke to a big group of kids yesterday. Sit down and talk to them, ask them what 'in' is now, who are 'face', to tell you that it's those kids who drive expensive cars or parents bring them in expensive cars, that it's those who fight at the stadiums with the police, that those who roll drugs, those who change girls as they want, those who have units at school, that they're those who never do anything in their life and usually end up on the other side of the lock or, unfortunately, most often end up as difficult patients, almost always with a tragic outcome. It's all very nice, that you, from year to year, resupply your pensioners to vote for you, settle various structures, police, state, to vote for you, but there will soon be no one to vote in this country. You have ignored the full care of young people in Serbia. You don't care about that; as a one-night butterfly, you're flying around a light bulb. So please, all of you who are serious, especially you in the parliamentary benches, I know that there are good hosts among you, good parents, concerned about Serbia's fate, talk a little bit at these meetings where you support the government and ask them what is a juvenile delinquency. Ask them why every school yard isn't completely lit, why isn't the cameras attached to the nearest police station or to the school secretary's office? How is it possible that brutal fighting, where young children lose their lives, happens in schoolyards? How is it possible that drugs are sold completely peacefully in the schoolyards? Is it true what those kids tell me yesterday, that cops in high schools are mostly dating young girls? Think about where you're taking Serbia. Regarding a visit by Turkey's president, the SNS respects Turkey as a state, as a country that is prosperous, advanced, but its power, its money has awakened in some of them some of their ancient aspirations. Serbia is not responding to Turkish officials' statements. You tried visiting the President of Turkey to minimize a little of the Russian Federation president's echo in Parliament and, of course, you failed. You'd have a breakdown here, and you'd be fully aware of that. In the last 15 days, we have two difficult problems that need to be solved by the Serbian government and not solved. One is Macedonia, which is establishing borders with Kosovo, with an independent state of Kosovo. I found out somewhere that the minister made a sharp note. It is a shame for the state of Serbia to point out a sharp note when someone besides it draws boundaries. Since Serbia, we have not allowed anyone past us to draw borders. The other thing is the bargaining of Turkey, the whole of Serbia or some of its parts, and especially some of Turkey's citizens. So I ask the state to declare whether Turkey owns the Raska area, or Sandzak, means that Muslims in the Rasko area, or in all of Serbia, are Turkish? Is that what Turkey stands for for as a national minority? If so, if those people accept that they are Turks, I don't mind. Let's protect them as a Turkish minority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28854	Five minutes. Thank you. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28855	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question for the Government – are the laws that are passed in this House, whether our strategies, the spatial plan, are worth something, whether the state commissions forming to solve some problems have purpose, or whether whoever comes to Serbia, passing through, and meets with Serbian President or Foreign Minister will come out and change the whole concept of Serbia's development? Turkey's president cannot come to visit Serbia and come out of our leaders and say: the highway will be built there and there. It's true that you need to build a highway and it's true that there are two variations. It is true that the state has set up a state commission to examine and argue which variant is better, economically more justified and in Serbia's spatial plan acceptable, but not to bring someone on the side and draw strategic important projects that will be worked through Serbia, with what it says - we will help build it. Is it true that the Danube Bridge can be done without a tender and that Gilas is involved, holding press conferences, and attacking us, through various media, for some small things that may have been done in an emergency procedure, what are the values and size of a thousandths, and that someone on the outside is awarded such a large project, without any tender documentation, without an idea project, without project documentation? How is it possible for someone to sign a contract for something for which there is no project so far, there is no precalculation of value, and that still promises to do so, and how will it work, and how much will anyone participate in this business, etc., and we don't have any papers at all? How is it possible now that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working outside the law, because the Budget Law has been violated and is constantly being violated by the end of the year? Why doesn't the government go into budget rebalance, let's see, that we can control the resources currently available, how and by what projects are currently being carried out? I have the impression that the government has allowed general anarchy, general chaos in the state, which has completely destroyed the system of institutions, and that everything here has been put into the hands of individuals. I have one very important question – is it true that the people who run UBOPK found malfeasance with one of the current ministers found large sums of money in his accounts, private and diverse accounts, and that it is still kept secret? The UBOPK people also found the purposeless spending of funds from the Fund for the Development and Money Laundering through some companies for individual officials, the highest-ranking state. Is it true, or isn't it? The people at UBOPK who told me that there are records about it. Is that true and why it is kept, why it is not revealed, why it is not discussed? Is anyone to this extent privileged that no one has the strength to stand in the way of it? We can't act like this to buy some peace in the ruling coalition, to tolerate certain malfeasances, so that this government eventually survives. Therefore, the questions are clear and loud. How is it possible, I repeat, that a job worth tens of millions of euros is awarded without a tender, anyone, in any way, how is the initial price determined? This is where the numbers are operated, and no project is done, no accompanying documentation is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28856	Do any of the Members of the People want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28857	Thank you. I want to ask the Serbian government a question. Are there also the effects of the Special Women Employment Programme, or the Women's Employment Encouragement Programme? So, what are the financial effects of these programmes and what are their benefits? Also, in light of this topic, I would like to commend Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic's initiative and the IMF's preliminary acceptance that the age limit for retirement for women is not moving and is not equal to that of men. Why am I saying all this? Because the fact that the position of women and men on the labour market is not equal and the affirmative measures for establishing an equal position certainly do not pose discrimination and something that threatens gender equality. I would like to remind you that the unemployment rate of women is twice the male unemployment rate, that 44% of women are employed and 53% of women unemployed, and that the pay gap between women and men is 16%. So, men's salaries are 16% higher than women's salaries, which clearly indicates that women and men are in an unequal position on the labour market and in the field of employment at all. Why is all this important? Because women are in a different position, first of all, because they care about the family and because it's a conflict of roles, meaning, work and career, on the one hand, and family, on the other hand, much more pronounced when it comes to women and that's something that every society has to respect. Namely, the data shows that there are 80% of women who leave work for family reasons. Also, after the divorce, 80% of women are trusted with children on their own parenting. So, 80% of women take care of children after divorce. It is clear that they can then not be in the same position when it comes to employment and their contribution to work. Also, among those whose only work is being done in the household, 98% is a woman. Therefore, it is clear that women are in a position to have a major conflict between family care and commitment to their careers, and therefore it is necessary to apply affirmative measures to the employment of women and to formulate specific programmes for this employment. Also, women are significantly less able to self-employed, first of all, because they do not have property in their possession, because only 30% of the property is held as property of women, which significantly prevents them from getting credit or starting an independent business. For this reason, I would like to point out once again, on behalf of many women who ask – are there any specific ways to hire them? First of all, I want to point out here that women in the age of 45 over make up a large number of unemployed women. There are 28,500 women between 50 and 55 in the labour market in Serbia. These are the women who are very hard to employ. That is why it is very important not to extend the time difference, the time limit for pensions, and to allow these women, especially those who have lost their jobs, to welcome their pension. In their name, I really support this initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28858	Whether any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right to seek information and explanations under Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? If there's anyone else, please register with the electronic voting system. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nikola Lazic, Zoran Bortic, Laslo Varga and Aleksandra Jankovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meetings, in addition to the representatives of the proposings Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, to be attended by Slobodan Homen, State Secretary, and Jovan Ćosic, Chief of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. We move to the points of the 1-6th agenda: – PROPOSALS ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLACES ON AUTHORITY OF THE COURT OF AUTHORITIES, ON THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF AUTHORITIES, ON THE AUTHORITY OF THE STATE ORGANISATION AND AUTHORITY OF THE COUNTRY AUTHORITIES AND ON THE PROPOSE OF AUTHORITY OF AUTHORITY AND OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF CRIME (continuation of the common principled Search) Please inform the Government to inform the representatives to move to the part of the session which implies their participation, on the basis of the membership of the 25th and of the rule of law, We're continuing to report for word, in principle search. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28859	Mrs. Komic, before article 88, goes to article 87. I heard you alerted the service to call government representatives, but it would be our turn to wait for those representatives. I think that's the basic order and that's how we would respect the Rules of Procedure. I think the government's representatives should have been sitting at the beginning of the session, among other things, issues addressed, which are important for the government's representatives who are sitting today in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Those of you who try to respect the Rules of Procedure, I don't think you should be breaking it this time. It won't take up much of your time on the way to Europe. I think it will even help to go faster to Europe, because you will directly show that you respect what you have brought, or regulations. The Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly are the rules on which this assembly should operate. I think you're the most invited to protect him, and you're doing it to a great extent. I can't say that we're always satisfied with the way you're doing it, because this Rules of Procedure has allowed you to freely judge and make a decision based on your opinion, but here things are very precise, clear and I think you should do it, so that later on, when you make a mistake, we'll sort of respect what you're doing, because we say, you're impartial, you treat everyone the same. Now, I get the impression that we're MPs that you're exorcising strictness, and when it comes to someone else, then you don't. I just wanted us to respect the Rules of Procedure because of that impression.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28860	Before I gave you my word, I gave notice to the National Assembly that I had information that they were representatives of the government at the session of the Legislative Committee and that is why I told them to call them. Government representatives will come to take their seats and listen carefully to the MPs, and with them also Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, with her meeting in the National Assembly hall between 11.15 and 11.30 p.m., according to yesterday's information. Please don't throw it away. I agree with MP Dragan Todorovic that the Rules of Procedure should be respected, and we should all respect him. I respect the Rules of Procedure, since I have informed the National Assembly that the representatives of the Government are at the session of the Legislative Committee, and will be here. National MP Dragan Todorovic throws it away, and immediately before that, he accused me of potential bias. You are now giving evidence to other MPs that I am biased when it comes to your behavior, because I am allowing you to violate the Rules of Procedure and throw me out of place, which is not the case. I understand this is in the interest of debate. We're moving on to a debate in principle. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The second time, about the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, the word is Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28861	Article 87, Mrs. Comic. I don't need to read it, because I'm sure you know it well, as I'm sure all members know it well. What's the problem here? The way you apply and the opportunities when you apply are different. I'm sure you understand me and I have no dilemma about that, but your explanation is in no way appropriate, Mrs. Comic. You have a clear, precise, in front of you Rules of Procedure. The fact that you've informed us where the government's representatives are is completely peripheral to this problem. They can be wherever they want. They may be going with the President of Turkey right now, they may be in protocol, and it's really important to their task, but it has nothing to do with the application of the Rules of Procedure, and you know it well. The Legislative Committee was supposed to be scheduled long before this was over. You know the session starts at 10:00. I'm simply warning you that you can't predict how the session will take place. We could go straight to the agenda at 10 o'clock. There may be days when no member of the parliamentary group will have any questions. You can't assume. Maybe you can, but you can't assume that you're acting. Therefore, I call again on you to respect the Rules of Procedure and to have a representative of the Government sitting in the Assembly. I think it would solve all these problems that we have at the moment, and it wouldn't put you in an awkward position, because this kind of work will make us really firm in the belief that there are MPs of the second order, MPs of the first order, and I don't think you're interested in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28862	Regardless of the fact that there is no breach of Article 87, since the course of the session can also take place with notice that, at some point, the representatives of the Government will be present in the hall, wanting to prove that I am prone to a very firm and strict respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set a break and continue our work at 11.20 p.m. [[After break – 11.30.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. The word is from the peoples of Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28864	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us with a joint principled search on judicial matters, on six points that we have on the agenda, but the central issue of the joint investigation is the draft law on the Judicial Academy. There are other bill proposals in this regard, which are in the spirit of the Law on the Judicial Academy, so I will specifically refer to this bill. New Serbia, when it comes to law on the Judicial Academy, will try to fix some things through principle debate and through amendments. Of course, there remains a big misunderstanding from where this law is on the agenda at all, where this law on the Judicial Academy is prescribed, because there is a lot of illogicality that is completely different from the current everyday life in Serbia's legal system. When we look at this law, first of all, Article 3, we immediately have one such illogicality and a situation that is not in the spirit of the previous laws that we have passed when it comes to the regulation of courts. It is said in Article 3 – the headquarters of the Academy is in Belgrade. I believe that this initial centralised is very bad for the work of the future judicial academy and, in my opinion, the Academy should have organisational units in the seat of the appeals courts, in Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, of course, and Belgrade, for reasons, above all, economics and celery. Because it is totally unacceptable that future members of the Judicial Academy will have to come to Belgrade, which is extremely expensive for an additional schooling. It is unacceptable that someone from Dimitrovgrad, Somboro, Sudotica, Negotina, comes to Belgrade for this additional training, and we have a transfer of jurisdiction to the appeals courts and it is perfectly logical that these candidates are completing training in these environments. This can all be removed by the formation of organisational units in the seat of appeals courts. With regard to Article 5, as well as my predecessors, I am expressing great dissatisfaction, given that the entrance exam for initial training is being conducted. In order not to repeat what my colleagues said yesterday on several occasions, I will only say that New Serbia, through the whole law, wherever the entrance exam is mentioned, has submitted amendments to erase such a proposal. What makes the law particularly unclear, and what bothers you, is Article 7, where the Governing Board and its great powers are concerned. In New Serbia's view, it is in no way possible for three members to be appointed by the government and three Council of Justice, given the number of judges. There should be at least four or five members here, and when it comes to prosecutors, there should be two board members. So, five to be when it comes to the High Judiciary Council, one should be from the ranks of employees. What particularly stings is that three members are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In New Serbia's view, there is only one member that is sufficient, given that it is an executive authority and that within the Justice Academy, the government, as the holder of the executive power, does not need to get involved so much in the future when judges, because judges have to be independent, so there is no reason for them to be present in this number. There's another detail here, the proposal is under the law for the secretary of state to be one member of the ministry. In New Serbia's view, there should be, instead of the secretary of state, an assistant minister, because we hope the moment will come when the competition will be respected that ministerial assistants will be the prime minister, for the simple reason that the Secretary of State is the current function, the circulatory one; leaving the minister, leaving and the secretary of state, so it is much better to be the assistant minister. The director of the Academy also has certain objections. In Article 13, paragraph 3, point 1 states that he has a VSS. There should be a legal proposal here to have a law school and passed a judicial exam, because it leaves the possibility for directors to be from some other branch, and in that mile of lawyers and future judges and director of the Academy to be the man closest to this profession. We also believe that seven years of experience in the profession is insufficient; it should be nine years of work experience for one such responsible function. The remarks were made to Article 19, that mentors could only be judges and deputies of public prosecutors. I think there should be a possibility that lawyers can also be mentors, for the simple reason that it's perfectly normal that someone from the legal corner can participate in the work of the Academy, because there are a large number of people who have been the holders of judicial functions for many years, so it's illogical to eliminate these people and not give them the opportunity to educate future judicial staff. As I said, all members from 29th to 34th are to be deleted, as it concerns the admission exam for the Judicial Academy. To make sure it's devalueable that someone who's graduated from law school and passed a judicial exam suddenly has to go to the entrance exam; it's completely illogical. It's even more illogical, Madam Minister, for someone from that admission exam to form a working relationship. I don't think it's in the spirit of the Labour Act and that it's against the constitution, because you're taking the entrance exam to start a working relationship. All members of that academy who are admitted will receive 70% of the salary, the net salary of the judge, so there is great contradiction. Especially to point out that this entrance exam for trainees, here, you see, the entrance exam for the Academy, practically, in courts, we're going to be doing some mini-colleges; some entrance exams, mentors are going through, they're grading something. Well, I guess you need those people who are holders of judicial functions to evaluate these people working specifically on cases! It's illogical and the ratio of 40% is the overall rating from the study, 40% is the evaluation from the admission exam. I think it should be equal to 50%-50%. I absolutely disagree in this situation that there should be an entrance exam. What is particularly annoying, at the end of this law, is the situation that the minister responsible for the judiciary, according to the president's consent provided, in Article 59, of the High Council of the judiciary and the president of the State Council of Prosecutors, is appointed by the acting director of the Academy within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law. ''The Director's office shall meet the conditions for the selection of the Director of the Academy and shall act as Director until the selection of the Director of the Academy in accordance with this law'. What does the acting officer do, do the performer of his duties in advance, profile when who's going to run the Academy? If that's not the case, Madam Minister, then there's no need for this, then we need to call a contest and immediately appoint a director of the Academy, who will be running the Academy from the beginning, not experimenting, so we can create two-states in a short period of time. As provided for in Article 61, this law shall enter into force on 1 December 2009. I think this application should be delayed. I don't think we're ready for one such academy, which is going to fit a lot with other functions, because the question is, why the High Council, why the State's Major Prosecutors, why the judicial exam and the law school, if we're introducing one institution that's going to deal with all of this? One, more note, in Article 35 – initial training takes two years and starts on October 1st, and consists of theoretical and practical work in the area of civil, criminal and criminal law. I don't think this is enough, if it stays like this, to add "administrative and commercial law". I think it's an obvious oversight of the one who made the law. Once again, New Serbia will point to the problems in this law in particular when we talk about amendments. I'm sure we can't support a bill like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28865	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Mirko Cikiriz, followed by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. I'm just asking you to register. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28866	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, about a year ago, sort of at this time, had a debate about a set of judicial laws, whose full effect should be expected within a year. General assessment of the situation in the judiciary has also been given. There doesn't seem to be a parliamentary group who has said that the situation in our judiciary is satisfactory. That grade is shared by the SPO, and because of the general situation, and because of what concerns us directly, as a party. Here, these days, there will probably be a final trial in the final instance of a crime at the Ibaric Master's Office, a crime of state terrorism, for which for ten years there is clear, unequivocal evidence that the state has misused its human and technical resources to come to the chief political opponents at that time. If in one case of such importance, not only for the public of Serbia, I would say, and beyond the abundance of evidence, we have so one slow and inefficient work of our judicial system, then it is really a question – what will an ordinary citizen expect, within what time and how can he exercise his right. Last year, the SPO supported amendments and the adoption of new laws from a set of law on justice, as it will vote in favour of amendments and additions to several laws that are at this point in the agenda and for the adoption of a new law, a very good law on the Judicial Academy. I listened with special attention to all the previous speakers, all the criticisms made to the solutions contained in the proposed law on the Judicial Academy. It seems to me that everyone has agreed in one important way – that the position and role of the judge is one of the most important state affairs, that the stability of the judicial system has an important impact on the stability of society and social relations, and that, therefore, in present-day Serbia, it is very complex and difficult to be a judge. It is an honor, but it is, on the other hand, a great responsibility. There were criticisms – which is why people who may have had all tens in law school passed a neat judicial exam, are now looking for some additional knowledge, additional proofs, etc.? I'll tell you on another case – if a doctor, 20 or 30 years ago, specializes in any field of medicine and has not been trained professionally, trained, if he has not followed the development of modern diagnostic systems, the production of new medicines, new treatments, whether this physician, in today's circumstances, without continuous improvement and progression, can be a good doctor? I'm sure he can't. It's the same with the judges. All of us who studied law school and passed a judicial exam were young and thought that during the course of the study and after that, in practice, we would be able to enter all the branches of law and be specialists in all areas, but the judicial exam, in my humble opinion, as well as to specialize in general medicine. Then you have enough knowledge, you have enough grounds to be a good lawyer, to be a good judge, to be a good prosecutor, but the right is a very broad area, both domestic and international law, and different branches of law, so that a good judge and a good prosecutor can be someone who deals with one area of law dominantly, who is constantly trained and perfected. The current system of training and training of judicial officials has been reduced to seminars and colleges. The delegations attending seminars have always been, as a rule, favorites of the president of the courts who determined the composition of judges who would attend seminars, so that all judges could not attend seminars either. Colleges have been held, but colleges don't have that meaning, so seminars themselves, because someone can go to a seminar, they can listen to lectures, they can remember something, but they don't have to remember anything. I'd start with what's good in this law. The law provides for training of future court trainees and prosecutorial interns. We have so far had the practice of receiving a large number of interns both in court and in the prosecution. Believe me, for example, in the Court of Justice in Kragujevac they have a room they call a traineeship room, so in the morning you can see 30-40 young people who want to learn something, but they are largely left to themselves and going from department to department; they can see more technically how the work of the judiciary is organised, to monitor the process, but they have no mentor, no lecturer, no one who will be employed in court or in the prosecution as trainees to check their inclination, skill and ability to, perhaps, be good judges or good prosecutors tomorrow. Many do this traineeship in order to deal with another area of law later, and it takes that form, and they often come out without any important knowledge, and then formally they have a document that they have completed a traineeship in a court or a prosecutor's office. I think by passing this law, it's eliminated. As there are professors who have excellent knowledge, but have no skill to pass on this knowledge to their students, there are also excellent lawyers, who are good theorists, but in practice they are hard to cope with, especially in a process that is quite complex, when you have, as a rule, two opposing sides, regardless of whether they are civil or criminal proceedings, or some other procedure, when what they have practically learned, theoretically, in practice, they do not know in a good enough way to apply. That's why I think it is necessary, of course, in addition to these general knowledge at the Justice Academy exam, to take more account of the structure of a person who will tomorrow be the holder of judicial functions, because, let's not forget, the judge is the mirror of the state, not just the judge, but all the civil servants. If you go to any country and you see a civil servant doing his job professionally, doing it responsibly, having a proper relationship with the parties, you should know that the state is so organized. Therefore, this is a good start to start restoring the importance and role that judges once played in our legal system, and we from the SPO like to call for the good side of our tradition, to our legislation that was modern, European, at trials and processes in which the king also knew to lose the process to ordinary citizens. In today's Serbia, it's unimaginable. Secondly, many judges and many prosecutors have no idea of what all the problems in the peach will face, from various types of skill, for example. Let's say, let's take a prosecutor, or an investigative judge, who has to know the basics of how to make a good insight, which is the basis for gathering evidence for a process that follows, what evidence to carry out, what order of evidence to carry out, what skill to determine, what to ask the court's expert. It takes a lot of general knowledge from criminology, from pathology, from ballistics, from forensic medicine, etc., so I think this training, because it will be a lecturer with great experience and lecturers who are not just prosecutors or judges, I suppose, and court experts, who will be able to, based on great experience, show what it is most important to do in one process, what evidence to perform, what to pay particular attention to, etc. I think that there is a obligation of constant training, continuous advancement, constant improvement, evidence that the state has become serious in this part, that it expects judicial officials to be made public, that the state allows them to make progress and improve professionally and that tomorrow, for many reasons and grounds, they will also demand their responsibility for their non-quality performance of their profession. Because of that, I think this law is truly remarkable. I think that all criticism, first of all, is that they are painted politically, that they are not getting into the essence of the problem, that the holders of judicial functions have nothing to fear because the state will allow them to improve on state spending all the time. Do you know what doctors who have a private office would give them, how thrilled they would be if the state allowed them to be constantly trained and trained on state spending? The Serbian Renewal Movement, as the right-hand side of the ZES list, expects full effect after the adoption of the law to take place within a year, following training and after the first results of work in our judiciary, for which we expect it to be better than it is now. That is why the SPO MPs will vote in favour of this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28867	Before we continue the work, let me inform you that part of today's session is accompanied by representatives of children from the municipalities of Vienna, Kragujevac, Piroth, King's and Prokuplje, included in the program "The School Without Violence". They are visiting the House of the National Assembly today, as part of the UN Week marking. From Pirota came Sandra Jeremenković, Kristian Asković, Aleksandar Mijalković, Jovana Georgievski, Milos Dinčić and Marija Dimitrijevic; from Prokuplje are guests Aleksandra Djordjevic, Sladjana Milosavljevic, Dragoljub Radosavljevic, Marko Pantić, Jasmina Baktjarević, Fatima Djordjevic; from Kragujevac there are Luka Jovanovic, Natasa Gajic, Janko Atanacković, Neda Ćeirović, Borisa Milić, Aleksandra Mitrović; from Kraljena, Tijana Djurić, Nevena Ponorac, Marko Ljajic, Ana Jasnić, Aleksandar Arizanović, Višnja Bešević, Anamarija Jovanovic; from Vienna, Dunja Šormaz, Djordjeljina Ilšin, Helena, Helena, Helena Ljačević, Atila Benjašček and Izačekić. I welcome UNICEF organizers, as well as UNDP guests. Welcome to the National Assembly! The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by a folk MP, Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28868	I'd like to take this opportunity, you won't mind me, to congratulate all those who celebrate today's glory to St. Friday, to spend it in peace and health, especially to the members of the SNS, because it's our party's glory. To talk about the law on the Judicial Academy and to listen to what the representatives of the government and the opposition say, for the citizens, it is a dilemma whether we have received the same bill, or whether the promoter has delivered one material to the MPs of the position and the other to the MPs of the opposition. I assure the citizens that we have received one and the same material for consideration and that the assessment that I, among other things, will be made, as well as some colleagues from the opposition, is that this is another attempt to derogate the third branch of the government, a judicial one, which wants to be directly placed under the control of the executive authority. The executive power has already done so with the legislative authority, where the Assembly is largely acting as the government's authority in its composition, and by who might be the proposing, whose interest and reputation is being defended here, when something can be debated. That's also the 57 points on the agenda of this session. What I'm particularly concerned about is that, probably, a team of lawyers made this law, wrote it, and if in the name itself, using the words "Justice Academy", he showed the public that he was trying to once, you would say, legally simulated shop, set up another agency, which he's falsely trying to call the academy. You know perfectly that the term "academia" is in the usual use of art institutions, including military higher education institutions, but the term "academia" is unacceptable for one such body, which is trained rather than higher education. Madam Minister, you probably know that Article 17. The company law says that the business name of a company cannot be substituted with the business name of another company, nor to cause confusion about a company or its activity. I repeat, the academy can be called someone who is usually involved in education, which is not the case in this situation. Instead of bringing the Law on Public Agencys, which is very current, into accordance with the Constitution and bringing into the same legal position of regulatory bodies, public agencies and bodies of the administration in the composition, which are established under this law, because they have different and financing and way of conduct in legal traffic, you will recognise that it will be subject to all the regulations and rules relating to public agencies. In Article 2, you say that the academy will try to secure a professional, independent, impartial, effective performance of judicial and prosecutorial functions, among other things. Such assessments lead to the public and everyone else in doubt that without this institution, the judiciary and the prosecution cannot meet these basic conditions. However, the right of intent is contained in transitional and final provisions, where, in fact, this academy is a legal follower of the Judicial Training and Professional Training Centre, and the entire structure, internal arrangement and tasks to be carried out by the Academy will be governed by the provisions of the law governing the work of public agencies. I say that this law is very controversial and will be the subject of our consideration, and it would have to be the subject of your interest, in relation to the work of many institutions, the bodies established under this law, or under other special laws, and working in accordance with this law. Essentially speaking, the government wants to establish a judicial agency. That's the real name of the facility you're setting up with this law. You'll be conducting, interrogating and looking for similar party judges. Then these party judges will be appointed to the judicial authorities and in this way you will reportedly ensure independence, impartiality and effective judicial affairs. I repeat, the people understand this as an undercover operation, and in a legal sense, it is a simulation of training, in fact, it is the creation of a judiciary that will be under direct influence and authority of the executive authority, and one of the evidence for this is the position of Minister and Secretary of the Ministry himself, who, as a member of the Management Board, even receives a 30% additional fee for participation in this governance body. Mrs. Malovic, the Constitutional Court has made a decision that the judge cannot be a member of the RIK. The incompatibility of two functions in this case is even more visiblely unconstitutional and represents not only conflict of interest, but under direct control of the executive authority, or the minister, you place one branch that has to work, to perfect itself. While you are already referring to that recommendation, or the European Union declaration, where it is stated that it must be an institution that is independent of the government and of the ministry, it is really not correct that you are even referring to that recommendation in the adoption of this law. For example, this declaration, as you call it, insists that the training be left behind, we use the Croatian translation because it is the only one for the declaration, the judges themselves, or the body independent of the legislative and executive authorities, and, above all, independent of the Ministry of Justice. What the declaration forbids you, in fact, are working, and by the way you are calling on it. This declaration insists on the volunteering of training and the active participation of judges, and in no way links training with promotion in the ministry, while you introduce, indirectly or directly, the general obligation of training and put participants in the position of fully passive lecturers. I would like to point out that I am a little bit more surprised by your coalition partners than you are, where in time, while the SPS was in power, the Society of Judges dealt with one such business and education, because there is always a need for education, but not at the expense of which, according to the estimates, people who understand in this area are close to 20m euros. That's how much it's going to cost, with travel abroad, with the organization of these services, with the work of judges who can be elected for three years without doing any court work, but to do training and all the other costs. You're going to make so much money, you're going to have a direct impact on the judiciary. Education in this country, which does not start from the moment the new minister heads the ministry, was done in a cheaper and more applicable way, appropriate to our economic opportunities and situation in the country. I want to specify, for example, Article 5(1) where you say the Academy will organise initial and permanent training of judges and prosecutors, but will also conduct the training of lecturers and mentors. In doing so, the work programme will be established by the Programme Council, according to Article 21, and according to Article 22, trained experts in the order of judges, prosecutors and other professions will conduct the training. You don't specify what other professions they are. I have to be malignant and ask a question, I don't want to offend either the judges or anyone you've imagined here, but it's inappropriate to leave such an important job to another profession, perhaps, who's going to get involved in this. Translated in the language of the people, the government will train them. If the government considers it necessary, and they have to decide so, judges and prosecutors, we will be given, allegedly, an independent judiciary. You say that, in Article 22, paragraph 5, they will be freed from judicial functions for a period of three years, with the possibility of an extension for another three years. Madam Minister, is it up to us to have a great judge, experts in Cassation, Appeal, Appellate Court or any other court, or to have lecturers and mentors who will be the commander of the government, and they will provide 'Futurely independent, professional judges and judiciary''? Now, when the re-election of judges is done, when the general climate of uncertainty is created about how many people will be employed in courts, which criteria decide to choose them, instead of opening up the perspective that those professional and proven find their place in the business, you are restarting the matter, checking basic knowledge, so that they become excess law schools, master studies, doctoral studies, judicial exams and everything called the tradition in the education of lawyers in this country. It's very debatable whether these organizations and institutes, I mean the colleges and studies of this guy, should at all exist, or whether this academy, which is called the Academy and not a higher education facility, but a training facility, is going to be able to replace them, or at some point someone will estimate that the state's law school is something that costs a lot, so let's cut it out, we have a Judicial Academy. This law is so ghastly that by quality of making it worse than the Public Information Act. When you take an article. 40th and 45th, with some 13 items that explain jurisdiction, procedures, we as the NS Parliamentary Club had no other solution but to write – the article is deleted, but our explanations are on the side or two sides of the A4 format in which we state the unconstitution of this kind of training and choice of judges and derogation of an entire branch of government that is trying to do so. Instead of continuing training with sublegal acts, rules and orders within Serbia's courts, as excellent lawyers have done, whose names you are calling on today and who are still somehow active in the judiciary, you are resorting to the destruction of everything that was before you and the construction of something where we can't recognise the benefit, but directly affecting the violation of everything they call the basic legal acts on which the legal system of a state is based. For this law, simply, not that we cannot vote, but we are asking you to withdraw it and that the state of re-election of judges and this state of uncertainty, the lack of guidance of the public and those who are interested in this area, and have not had the opportunity to give you their opinion, do not use it in a way that neither in Macedonia nor in this country can give results, as it is imagined, because the basic definition of the division of power is – legislative, executive and judicial, in which only this court, in one part, is not put under control, one part of it already is, the executive authority. This, first of all, will be the executive authority's head-to-head, currently, through the loss of power, but what we're more concerned about, is that this is why the state will suffer as a serious state, because if it gets on these principles of judges that need to implement the Bank Act, the Law on Liaison Relations, not that we can't be a desirable place for investment, but we'll be a desirable place to bypass. I, in the end, ask you once again to withdraw this law, because I am convinced that, as an extremely intelligent woman, a lawyer, you should not have allowed yourself to have those who are in contact with powerful people, at present, in law, in this legislative authority and in the party forming a coalition, planting such a law, where a whole state and all three branches of government are trying to put under one party cap.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28869	Since the Parliament's time, 16 minutes and 15 seconds have been used. The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinovic, and after him, MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28870	Dear Vice-President Comic, honourable MPs, respected Justice Minister, I would like to begin by thanking the Justice Ministry for keeping the promise made in the adoption of a set of judicial laws at the end of 2008, when you promised that a law on the Judiciary Academy, which completes the legal part of the judicial reform, would come before the Assembly in 2009. The reform of the judiciary has begun and the judicial reform takes place through the process of electing judges, and we hope that the process will be successfully completed, so that the courts, fully reformed, can begin work from 1 January 2010. At the end of 2008, we passed the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors and these laws established the right of judges and the right of prosecutors to train, to train themselves professionally. Now, by passing law on the Judicial Academy, we are practically introducing it into practice. The Law on the Judicial Academy implies initial training and constant training of judges and prosecutors. It is important to stress that from now on training, attending training and gaining expertise and skills will be one of the main criteria for progress in the judicial business and one of the main criteria for selecting judges. The essence of this law is to consistently implement the principle of depolitisation and independence of the judiciary. I must say that everything my predecessor, Jorgenka Tabakovic, has said is simply not true. This law does not bring judges and the judiciary under the influence of a political party, but, I repeat again, establishes a complete depolitisation of the judiciary. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Judges and the Law on the VSS, introduced that judges are elected by the VSS, not by the Serbian Parliament, as has been the case so far. Serbia's parliament, which is also a political body, in which the presidents of political parties are sitting, has so far chosen the judge's office, and this is no longer the case. So judges are elected by the VSS, where most judges sit, so people who are professional in the job. Now we go one step further and we determine as the only criteria for choice, first choice...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28871	People's MP, I'm sorry to interrupt. It's my obligation under the Rules of Procedure. I ask the People's Messengers not to receive and not to interfere with the speaker. Today, during the session, we have jointly advocated the strict application of the Rules of Procedure, and I now warn you that this applies to all of us who are currently at the session, and to those who will attend the session. Excuse me, MP, one more time. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28872	Thank you. We are now introducing, when it comes to the choice of a judge on judicial duty, which lasts for three years, as an exclusive criterion – knowledge, which has not been the case so far, which was certainly not the case at the time when Minister of Government was our colleague, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Therefore, any citizen who has passed the judicial exam, who wants to work in the judiciary, will have to pass the entrance exam and, if he passes that admission exam, to take training under the Justice Academy. Depending on how he attends that training, he will be elected to the judge. So if we have two candidates, both of whom attended training, one who had better grades during training will be selected and on the very basis of the exam. So what this law introduces is that it will no longer be accepted in courts, and in prosecutors, people through relationships, and those who are sons and daughters of famous and famous people will not be accepted; therefore, full depolitisation of the judiciary. This law also discusses the principles set out in judicial laws, where the right to permanent training is introduced, I would say, and the obligation to continue training, because whether judges have attended training will depend on whether they will be elected to a higher court or whether they will advance in their careers. Also, this law provides for the training of the judicial administration, the judicial assistants and the judicial administration. I believe that now the objection which we had the opportunity to hear from the judicial administration is completely dismissed – the objection that they did not have the opportunity to train, so the judicial administration is not doing well. So now everyone will have an obligation to train and, depending on knowledge and training, will advance their careers. When it comes to the position of trainees, only those who have passed the test and who have had good grades can be accepted among court trainees. The law predicted that the overall score was 40% of the success rate from basic studies and 60% from the Academy's admission exam. So the law on the Judicial Academy is rounding the foundations set by the adoption of a set of judicial laws that we passed last year. It shows a very clear commitment to further improving the judiciary. I deeply believe that, with the fundamental reform of the judiciary that we have started, with the process of electing the judges, which is under way, and by establishing the Judicial Academy, we will restore the trust of the citizens in the judiciary and in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28873	The word has the People's MP Jorgenka Tabaković – right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28874	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here, to make sure that any of us is telling the truth - I refer them to the National Assembly website, that in the section – Laws in the procedure, open the law on the Judicial Academy, with explanations, and read whether and to what extent the Law on the Judicial Academy regulates in a new way the training of judges, the way of choice, the users of this training, their rights, etc. When it comes to when, who and how much you participated in the government, it is simply a non-serious finding to me, Mr Konstantinovic, because of the arguments that I make and the members of the law that you are trying to make to me, which I was in government from March 1998 to October 2000 and led the resolution of the Ministry of Economic and Property Transformation, you would attribute the failures that, if there are, should be attributed to your current coalition partner. At the time of 1993, when, for example, over 100 good judges left the judiciary and some new and underdressed, when we had, were remembered by those who referred to the matter, a considerable problem in the functioning of the judiciary, and in 1993 the party I belonged to was founded only two years and did not participate in the government. So, by defending this law, you use arguments, members and solutions from the law itself, and don't refer any kind, especially unargued, to a personal application.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28875	The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has the word, followed by Natasa Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28876	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have indeed had many times the opportunity to discuss judicial laws, about what is now popularly said, judicial reform. And today is one of those days, when we need to talk about the law on the Judicial Academy, which is one comprehensive system law, but also about a series of other amendments to the law, which have passed somehow in the shadow of this bill, but are very important, because they are talking about the nature and understanding of the reform of the judiciary by the current government. Although it has been said here that justice reform is determined, the DSS is on the point that it is very, very badly placed. What we pointed to last fall, autumn 2008, is that we're going to get into a situation where we have total chaos and a stalemate in the judiciary, now we have. All those who are dealing at this point in some form of justice, are judges, particularly lawyers, aware that the debates and investigations do not require that everything be delayed indefinitely, for the next year, because the biggest question is whether after the courts have been abolished, which is the greatest feature of this judicial reform, in small municipalities at all, and within what time will all these cases in the offices be seduced and whether the judges will come to an opportunity, and the new judges who are elected, to order debate and search? The main feature of reforming the government's judiciary is the abolition of courts in small towns. We had a chance last year to hear that one of the most important reasons why courts in small towns are being abolished is because the degree of corruption in the judiciary in these small towns is so great that it doesn't deserve to have a municipal court. Belgrade, Novi Sad and large cities do not have such a degree of corruption, bribery of judges is not to this extent expressed, but in small towns, from Sainta to Bosilegrad, to Chatina or some other municipalities, corruption is enormous. The inexplicable consequences of the development of these municipalities will soon be felt. This indicated that there is no coordination within the government itself, which, on the one hand, advocates even regional development, for strengthening institutions, and at the same time abolishs an important institution. The government goes one step further, so, after the courts are lifted, as far as we can see, schools, maybe health homes, maybe some other institutions, and maybe life itself in small places. It's a big problem, and the initial thing about abolishing institutions has been given by the government, when it comes to the judiciary. As you can see, the status of the basic courts goes one step further, that they fully dissuade themselves, what are the amendments to the Law on the regulation of courts that are on the agenda, which, as I said, are in the shadow of the Bill on the Judicial Academy, slightly neglected. It is precisely in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Courts that another part of the jurisdiction of the basic courts is abolished and transferred to the jurisdiction of senior courts. Be careful, in the light of the bill, it is said that these are very serious crimes. All crimes are serious. What is this qualification – serious crimes? It is only proof that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to remove the full decision in the domain of the judiciary in 36 higher courts and to rule, i.e. In fact, it also abolishes these few basic courts that she left behind in life. I'm afraid this kind of policy in the area of justice will lead to a series of problems, not only in the functioning of the judiciary, but in a new wave of emigration from small places to the centers of the county. Why would companies work in these small towns when the essential decision is in the judiciary and the higher courts in the centers of the county? Why should ordinary citizens, lawyers, live here? Serious consequences will produce this concept of judicial reform. It would be best, Your Honors Minister, to return the courts. We daily listen to these demands from the municipalities, for it is a terrible bad message for living together in a small community to be abolished. When it comes to the proposed law on the Judicial Academy, its formation is also envisaged in the justice reform strategy itself, and it is undeniable, it has also proved in practice that judges also need professional training and training. This was shown by the number of judgments abolished, it was shown by the time in which those judgments were made, by the number of outdated cases. There was simply no clear system to improve and perfect the work of judges. Regardless of such a need, this law detects several problems that can create a number of complications in the functioning of this new institution, which you create at the time you fire employees in the state administration and local self-government. Watch out for the paradox! You have to hire new people in this judicial academy. You can't convince us that the Justice Center is going to be such a big institution as the Judicial Academy to fully cover with employees. So, you're going to have to hire new people, and at the same time you're firing in the state administration, in the judiciary, and in local self-government, as you're forcing local self-government to fire its employees, and you're forcing her to form a communal police force, where she's going to have to re-employ. There are very high contradictions in your policy, which is a policy of dismissal, but probably also the employment of your staff. Let's get in line. The question here is, why is this the way to ignore the law profession? We've had a chance to listen to our fellow lawyers here. It's just amazing that there's no room for a lawyer's profession in both the Management Board and the Programme Council. At the same time, you're putting a terrible pressure on the bar. Fiscal cash registers, you make them spies in the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists, which will be found in front of the Constitutional Court, and the initiative is launched by the Vojvodina Bar Association of Lawyers. A lawyer's profession, and you have a large number of people who came from the judiciary in the 1990s, that's what a colleague used to say, who are very educated, very professional, you completely abandon from such an important job as training the future holders of judicial functions. I suggest that we look at the position of law enforcement and the problem this government has in law enforcement. At the same time, there is talk of depoliticalisation in this law, but in the very provisions of the law it becomes very controversial. Article 7 – The Government shall appoint members of the Management Board. Is the government a body that isn't politicized? It's mostly politicized. The Management Board is a key body of the Judicial Academy. The judicial academy should assess those who are completing training, and on the basis of their assessment, representatives of the government will participate, deciding whether they will become holders of judicial functions, as you provided for in Article 40, as it will depend on the height of that assessment whether they will be elected as a judicial or prosecutorial post. Do not convince us that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will not have an impact on those who give that assessment. And that's how they're gonna have it. He feels very strongly, through the presence of the Government's Board of Directors, political influence. Dispose of government representatives from the board of directors. What are they doing here? Get the attorney's representatives in. When it comes to the fact that initial training will depend on choice for legal holders, we have a dilemma – is it necessary to undergo initial training after having passed the judicial examination? This creates an additional confusion, especially what criteria for this initial training will be and what criteria for the initial training of judges and prosecutors. We don't see that this training will differ and, at all, what it will bring. In any case, the question of this training remains very controversial. It is not disputed professional training and continuous training, they are absolutely necessary for the judiciary, but initial training for persons who already have a certain degree of knowledge and practice, that it depends on choice for legal holders, is controversial. That brings more confusion into this law. At the end, the deadlines for application. You've set a really ambitious deadline when there's supposed to be a transformation of the Justice Center into the Judicial Academy. I don't believe that this is possible within two or three months, especially since at the same time you have to fight the budget deficit and fire employees in the judiciary, the state administration, local self-government, and now you have to hire new people. Where are you going to secure these funds, pay for these people? What kind of pay will these people have? I'm sure there's gonna be tension in the entire state administration, the judiciary, that someone gets a high-paying job, and at the same time you're firing other people. The DSS has submitted several amendments. I ask that these amendments be considered, because they must be heading towards improving the text of this law. But the general impression of the whole state of justice is that there's a great fear in him, that there's a lot of pressure. We suspect that it will come out of these political pressures with the best quality, and the quality in the judiciary is, and we doubt, above all, that this whole reform will start after the New Year, because, believe me, it will only take the Belgrade courts at least half a year to form offices in these two courts that you predict to form, compared to these five. Therefore, consider carefully whether it is necessary to continue this reform of the judiciary. It would be better to re-analyze, get back to the beginning and get the expert public involved once more. Professional training and continuous training are indisputable to the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28877	11 minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the Parliament Group's time. The word has a folk MP Natasa Vuckovic, followed by a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28878	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister and Representatives of the Ministry, anyone who has been following the work of our assembly in the past year could rightly get the impression that judicial reform was our most common topic. Indeed, over the past year, since autumn 2008, we have passed a number of reform laws in this area, reformed the system of courts, rationalized them, established new regulatory bodies, I mean the Anti-Corruption Agency, we have significantly improved our legal framework to fight organised crime. Also, anyone who monitors our daily political life and the work of the executive authority and the judiciary can notice that not only have we passed these new reform laws, but that there are enormous efforts to make these reform laws really work. We know that real application in practice starts from the beginning of next year. What all these efforts clearly indicate is that justice reform falls to the top of the government's priorities and that in no way is one of the empty pre-election promises that we had ahead of the formation of this last government. The reform of each large system is a long and very demanding process, where the effects and results are seen only when the reform is implemented in all segments of one system. I think we'll have a chance to evaluate and evaluate these effects together over the next few years. All the laws we have on the agenda today are laws that need to further improve judicial reform and take one step further towards the implementation and implementation of the Justice Reform Strategy, which has been continuously implemented, if I am not mistaken since 2006. So the majority of governments participated in both its creation and its realization. In this sense, today we have on the agenda and a draft law on the Judicial Academy, which, in my opinion, is extremely important, because it not only achieves the objectives set in other system law on the judiciary, such as the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, but plans and intends to affect both today's and future prosecutors, judges, judicial administrations and judicial administrations. Let me say that I think the draft law on the Judicial Academy is the victory of all those who have advocated in Serbia since 2000 that the idea of permanent professional training of judges is a reality. The idea was not easily accepted by all segments, there was resistance, perhaps at least in the judiciary, but there were them both in the executive authority and in all other institutions that had something to say in this area. The plan involved both domestic NGOs and many international organisations and has helped us to understand the training and professional training of judges. I have had the opportunity to deal with and follow the initial steps in establishing our judiciary's co-operation with judges from other countries through various NGOs, to see how these meetings and these co-operations gave positive results precisely to the process of opening our judiciary according to what is good practice, which is good and positive results of judicial work in other countries. Of course, since 2000, there have been many new findings that have appeared before our judges, before the prosecutors, too. Let's just start with the fact that that's the first time we've ever heard of a judicial mediation institute. Then, for the first time since we became members of the Council of Europe, we have come to a situation where our judgments are exposed to the evaluation of the European Court of Human Rights. We started working intensively on training judges for direct application of international human rights standards in our courts. Those were big steps ahead. That was the first time we heard of some new concepts of court case management, as something that is a very significant contribution to achieving greater availability of justice and greater efficiency of justice in general. The formation of the Justice Training Centre of the Judges was in itself a major step forward. However, from the very beginning, he was rather dependent on international support, international projects, his structure was as it was, not strong enough to meet all needs in the area of education and professional court training. The fact is, however, that many who have worked at the Justice Centre, both judges and experts, have made huge efforts to gather good experiences and good practice from other countries, so that we have today such a good bill on the Judiciary Academy. The Law on the Judicial Academy aims to institutionalise in a completely new way the idea of permanent professional training of judges. The bill envisions the formation of its bodies, it focuses on other institutions dealing with the judiciary and other state bodies. I don't want to use strong words, but my belief is that this is really about a revolution in the area of professional training of judges. I think it's one of the basic papers this law is about to give us is initial training. We have so far, through various forms, had mandatory and voluntary seminars, expert counselling judges etc., but initial training is what is really new. Let me express my disagreement with some of my predecessors, who have said that law school and judicial exam are something that should be enough to perform the functions of judge and prosecutor. My opinion is that today, in conditions where you have one dynamic legislation, when we adopt various norms from the EU legal system, where there is a huge extension of international standards and their application and incorporatement into our legal system, as well as one, as I would say, increasingly effective supranational legislation, which has effects on our legislation, which has effects on our judiciary, is simply impossible to assume that enough is enough to complete a legal college, to pass a judicial exam and be prepared to respond as a judge, or as a prosecutor, to all the challenges that new situations, new legal institutes, put before you. This initial training envisioned by the draft law on the Judicial Academy should take 24 months. I think it's very well imagined, like decentralisation training. Every training student will have the opportunity to work with mentors in court, will have their mentors in all areas of training. It will be an opportunity for future candidates for judges and prosecutors to meet both the internal organisation of courts and prosecutors, to see how international standards are directly applied in courts and prosecutors, as well as all those issues that are important and which are not covered by both law schools and judicial exams. Of course, the Judicial Academy will have a certain decision not in the choice of judges, but, to put it this way, to apply one word from another area, to recruiting future judicial judges, because it will give a professional assessment of the work of the students of initial training, their advancement in this training and the capacity to respond to the challenges that judicial functions bear. I think it's a well-developed idea that students of initial training are actually employed for a period of 30 months at the Academy, because it's about people who are already relatively mature, because they've finished law school, and a judicial exam should be passed, as a prerequisite for initial training. They should, therefore, have a certain experience, and these are people who want to focus on performing a judicial function in the future. They need to be provided with a certain type of security during this training process, but the state seeks to keep such a single learner in the justice system. I think the proposal should have provided for this obligation by the starter of training to apply for a competition for a judge or prosecutor to be limited to some period of two to three years. It is possible that some solutions can still be achieved through amendments. I think it is important to stress that in the creation of this law, the team that worked on it used comparative and good experience and good practice, especially Spain, the Netherlands, Germany and France, by bringing together a decentralised system of training and functioning of the judicial academy, and that the international standards of both the Council of Europe and other international standards were applied, because it is important that we also be compatible with the world in this segment. My opinion is that the independence and impartiality of the judiciary is achieved in various ways, but the security of permanent training and training of judges and prosecutors is one of the elements to which this independence and impartiality is provided. Of course there is financial independence, the introduction of new information technologies into the judiciary is one of the conditions, but, in any case, the establishment of a judicial academy is a major step forward in judicial reform. My belief is that this will contribute to the better preparation of judges and prosecutors, as well as court trainees and judicial administration, which we often have as citizens, and that in this way our new judges and prosecutors will be able to respond to the new challenges set before them by judicial reform, but above all, to citizens' expectations of justice becoming more effective and more effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28879	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. After him, MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you will be remembered in two cases in the professional public and in the general public. The first is that you regularly follow the presentations of the MPs. You did it last year, in November and December, when you were in one special, of course, beautiful state. You're doing it now. You will also be remembered as someone who, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, proposed and defended a law that led to the abolition of over a hundred municipal courts. I must, for the sake of my colleagues, first of all, those who support the congregation's majority, explain to the public Serbia. The SRS is in favour of reforming the justice system. To ask any citizen of Serbia, you will get the same answer, any judge, prosecutor, lawyer, you will get the answer that reform of the judicial system is necessary. Are we in favour of professional training of judicial officials? Of course we are, but you're also proposing colleagues, first of all, from the DS, knowingly avoid saying that today we have several laws that change only one member. I ask you, Madam Minister, do you, last year, on December 30th, when we adopted a set of law in the field of justice, know that in the foreseeable period of time, even in a period of one year, a law on the Justice Academy will be passed? If so, then it should have been provided in the Law on Courts and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office that, possibly, judges could be proposed to the authorities of the Judicial Academy. But once more serious legal and professional analysis, that can be questioned, because you, by subsequent passing a law, are returning something to apply which, in principle, and perhaps morally, is not right to be so. Anyway, everybody's talking about the law on the Justice Academy. My intention is to try to provoke you, not literally, but to some issues that pressure and torture our judicial system, and that you, right after my presentation, or after the final public debate in principle, try to give an answer. I'm absolutely sure you know about these problems in the justice system, but don't solve them. I want to tell you one more thing, before I explain your statement and your deputy secretary of state, Mr. Homen, whenever I'm able to follow them, even when he recommends some music in which part of the day we listen; it's a little sweet to me, but never, never in yours, nor in his statement have I seen you apply Article 13(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about laws in the area of justice, I like to consult at times the members of the Constitution. It is said -- the Republic of Serbia protects the rights and interests of its citizens abroad. When I say this, I don't think about our people who are on temporary duty, who are with some other status abroad, first of all, I mean those who are in The Hague today. As someone who runs the Justice Department's portfolio, and you, and your deputy, you should sometimes react to human rights abuse, human rights violations, fundamental rights to defense. We from the SRS and our party president, Mr. Vojislav Seselj, never ask you to say whether he should be convicted or not, especially if you belong and you are a follower of a regime whose representative said – take him away and do not return him. We don't expect you to influence in any way, but to react when human rights are violated, that's what we expect. I also have to show my colleagues to Chiquiriz a book, because a colleague from his MP group said that the book "Hike on Heretics" was written in Latin. You see, she's written in Cyrillic. One of the reviewers was even academicist Ljubomir Tadic, but it is not important, but it is our obligation to speak the truth here in Parliament and then we can talk about reform, both judicial and any other system. When it comes to the Judicial Academy, I am afraid, carefully reading the provisions of this bill, not to endanger the position of Article 4(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said -- judicial authority is independent. Cassius, when I speak of this bill, I will refer you to some things that are directly contrary to this member of the Constitution. I'd also like to say a few things about our prisons. You know that year after year, since 2000, the number of prisoners has increased. Maybe that's objective, maybe that's what it takes, but we're asking that you, as minister, intervene and see what it's all about, whether some other sectors and ministries are in a position to influence, whether you can interfere in this way with some perpetrators of crime, or some, even, maybe encourage. I will state that in 2002 there were about 6,283 such persons, in 2003 – 7,128, 2007 – 8,970, 2008 – 9.509. We know that real capacity is about 6,000, and that, according to EU rules, it could be around 4,500. We need our options to adapt to the standards we have reached. Here we need to ask ourselves – why does the number of those who are in prison support increase from year to year? Of course, whoever committed the crime, convicted by a judicial decision, should be found where he belongs. Can this state do anything to prevent it from being like that? I don't know if you're aware that in countries with modern, developed democracy, they first organize the park, they let the citizens walk the trail themselves, and then they prepare and set up that trail. In Germany, if more than 10% of the perpetrators appear in one year, they see that the legal system is seriously compromised, that there may be a need to review the legislation in the part. You know that standards in prison institutions, in several of them, in six-seven, meet EU requirements, in some of them it's not nearly brought to that level, but what concerns me and us in the SRS a little more is that there are a large number of returnees – about 60%. So, about 60% of people went to prison two or more times. Lately, a growing number of those perpetrators have been involved in serious crimes, such as brutal murders, serious physical injuries, robbery, rape, domestic violence, especially over minors, as well as criminal acts of organised crime. There is also a large use of drugs, and the number of drug addicts in prisons is about 6.580, when given the 9500 figure, and especially the alarming state is in the Juvenile Juvenile Juvenile Juvenile Juvenile Juvenile Juvenile Juvenile Home, where about 91% of the minors who use narcotics or other psycho-medical agents. This is something you seriously need to take care of. When the judges, the presidents of the courts, municipal and county courts, knew that a set of law in the area of justice would be on the agenda, they thought the application of the deadline of January 1st would be proposed. What made them think that? Because a large number of jobs that were to be completed could be initiated with a reform from 1 January 2010. You know that there is no Rules of Procedure, or as it will already be called, on how to prepare for the departments. It's a short time to do it all in quality, so it can be applied. You know, I'm going to say specifically about Shabac that there should be a unit of economic court in both Capac and Loznica without the construction part being completed. In a professional, humane, personal sense, I'm not in the process, but I don't think that's right; there's a large number of perpetrators. I'm calling again to the County Court in Sapac, where there have been 15 judges so far, and now eight are scheduled, in the Supreme Court. I assure you that the number of judges will not be able to make quality decisions in the second degree. Already, a large number of Serbian citizens are complaining to the Strasbourg Court about the untimely resolution of their demands. Our country will be punished by large funds. Doesn't it seem to you that it might be better if at this point a larger number of perpetrators were hired and that their efficiency was being monitored? You started talking about it, but it seems to have become popular – a smaller number of perpetrators, even in courts, and in any administration, will lead to better quality services. Where have you been? I guess someone didn't impose on you, not specifically on you, when it comes to the number of judges, I only think about those who were in the administration, as if someone else had imposed on you, as if you haven't increased the number of employees in the republican administration from 8,000 to nearly 32,000 since 2000. I find it a little cynical when some people talk about the need for reform in the judiciary, and those who have been the most involved since 2001 in bringing judges to those graduate lawyers who have worked before that in agricultural cooperatives, of course, I appreciate them, and in the same day they have appointed them as judge. They're telling us today how the Judicial Academy is needed, and I don't know how the judges are perfected. That's certainly necessary, but not in the way you imagined it should be done. Only for a short while, given that a respected colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, has explained the senselessness of the law on the Judicial Academy. I have to call on a few members to comment on them. Article 7 refers to the Management Board of the Judicial Academy. When I said it would not be possible to preserve judicial independence, first of all, I mean such a formulation of the provision of Article 7, where it is said: "The members of the board of directors are: three members appointed by the High Council of the judiciary", and it is known that you and your colleague, Bosko Ristic, are members of the High Council of the judiciary, as members of some political parties, including lawyers elected to this High Judiciary Council. It's the same situation with the state council of prosecutors. In the end, the government appoints three members. So, out of nine, at least five, and maybe six of those who are directly members of political parties, at this point in the DS. This is not a good way to reform the justice system and you should not try this way, nor have the illusion that it can be applied. You say the Management Board should hold at least twice a year its sessions. That's ridiculous. Maybe once, maybe not once, maybe 32 times, depending on the need, if such an organ already exists. There's a lot of business in this law. The rules of procedure on the work of the bodies provided for by this law should therefore be laid down. I listened carefully to what he said and exposed my colleague, Chiquiris. When he referred to what required perfection, we agree, but you set an example that could not be adequate. If someone finishes medicine and works for 20 years, does he follow up on all the changes? It came down to the fact that if someone had completed medicine and had done some other work for 20 years, if someone had passed a judicial exam and worked as a judge 20 years ago, that what he did daily required him to be perfected. You, as Minister, have to monitor the matter of your ministry every day. That's how judges have to follow. So they're not people who aren't in progress. They're perfecting themselves on the cost of the state, but there are limits on who it's going to be. If so far the presidents of the courts have sent or were able to decide who will go to the seminars, I can agree with you that sometimes some president of the court abused it, so he favored a certain group of judges, but that's for the narrow locality. Now that one organ is doing so, there will certainly be abuses, and they will be far more extensive, more dangerous in quality and professional training than they have ever been before. Madam Minister, one of the last questions about this exhibit of mine is – why not commit a criminal procedure, why not process those state officials who openly advocate the introduction of Serbia's state into NATO pact? We know that this is an interesting and criminal organisation, in terms of the state of Serbia, what they did in 1999, and we expect you to take certain steps on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28881	Fifteen minutes and thirty seconds of the Parliament's time spent. National MP Mirko Chikiriz, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28882	Thank you and colleagues, Peric, for the extremely qualified presentation. Of course, the argument for his political views differs from the argument I made. With regard to Latin and Cyrillic, the SPO as a party that is nationally defined, which we believe is European, that it belongs to a party of enlightened nationalists, is in love with Cyrillic, but in the period when the first publication of the book came out was dominated by Latina; it is probably some later edition. I don't think that's the topic we should be dealing with today, but I fully agree that MPs have a responsibility for a spoken word. In terms of professional training and advancement, at a time when the first plane was hijacked, the hijacking of the plane did not exist as a crime, as life brings new crimes, new techniques, new specializations, new relationships. We amended criminal law three years ago, so it seems to me that 34 crimes have been added that did not exist in criminal law. Technological crime, cyber crime, these are new forms of crime for which judges, for example, in small courts are not sufficiently trained and hardly trained unless they have someone in the family or are extremely interested. I think this is, once again, the seriousness of the state that allows all judges to train and professionally improve on the cost of the state. Thus, in the future, this will certainly affect the increased number of knowledge and skills of judges from all areas with which they meet daily in very complex cases. Don't forget never the judges from a small place. For example, the Community Court in Ariel, I was saying last year, has extraordinary work results, then the municipal court in Guca, but there works only a few judges and they do both guilt, and litigation, and outsiders, many cases that stray into their court. They don't meet with those skills and skills, and I think that's why the regulatory role of the state in that part is very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28883	National MP Sreto Peric, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28884	I don't need a lot of polluting with my colleague, Chicago, but I'm afraid of one thing. Last year, when we passed these laws, the largest number of MPs who supported the abolition of a large number of municipal courts just presented a negative situation in small towns, such as the large number of corruption cases, which is absolutely incorrect. I agree with you that judges in small towns may not be able to monitor enough professional literature and perfect themselves, but these crimes are less and less likely to occur there. We are both in favour of reforming the judicial system and of professional training, but I have said that we suspect that a positive selection will be made through the Judicial Academy Management Board. It is realistic to expect that we will have a negative selection, that at this point, i.e. after 1 January 2010, we will have the largest number of judges who will openly advocate the implementation of party policy. You can assume which parties will be that policy implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28885	The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28886	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry, we started another session yesterday, at which more than 50 points of the agenda were held, without having in time information which points would be connected and whether there would be a merger at all. I believe that this is a bad practice in this House's work and I can only conclude that this does not contribute to the quality of the debate that is expected in this House. Today, on the agenda, we have a few draft laws that comply with the laws already passed in the area of justice. This would be no problem if they did not contain in themselves a series of illogicalities which, as such, do not qualify for a good basis for judicial reform, but make them a good reason to deepen even greater chaos in the judiciary and its even deeper disorganisation. I am sorry that the representatives of the Justice Ministry did not understand in time which direction and what kind of court apparatus would create the moment when all these "reform laws" were adopted, despite timely and well-intentioned reactions both to the professional public and to the general opposition in Parliament. My colleague and I have talked a few times, not to say a few dozen times, about it so far, but unfortunately none of our fundamental objections have ever been adopted. In order to make it clear to the public what this is about today, I will say that there are proposals on the agenda of laws that comply with the laws already passed, which are so controversial that, conditionally speaking, even that politically similar court staff will not be clear how they will be able to live without the judiciary being completely ruined. On the one hand, he insists on reelection as a break-up mechanism with the current judicial system, and, on the other hand, the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors is left to the institution whose disappearance is wanted. I really don't understand what the Justice Department's representatives wanted to achieve and what their goal was in the first place. On the other hand, the number of courts decreases drastically, we have talked about it many times so far, without any criteria, and that all has consequences for causing a series of negative effects. In addition to that series of negative effects we've been talking about, I don't know if anyone has wondered how long it would take for a physical transfer of the case from one court that ceased to exist in another court that took over his jurisdiction. This may be an irrelevant question, but trust me, in practice it will cause a lot of problems. On the other hand, has anyone ever wondered how many items in that physical transfer, conscious or unconscious, will be lost? I think the possibilities here for abuse are limitless. Furthermore, it is constantly said that the new judicial network and the reorganisation of the judiciary are created in order to speed up the proceedings and make it more efficient. I can really see that this fleet is no longer believed by the Justice Department's own representatives. How is it possible to speed up proceedings in court cases if the number of judges will be smaller and the inflow of cases will be higher, or will it remain the same? This means that at least one third of the cases will inevitably come to one judge. So he's going to have one-third more in the paper. It may not be a big problem for the courts in the interior, but for Belgrade it's a huge problem, because if someone has 300-400 objects in work, so you add one-third more, I don't know how do you think they're going to achieve half of the set norm, not anything more?- I'm sorry. On the other hand, the question arises how will the handling of cases be more effective when the judges, along with a series of problems they are now facing, encounter one problem that no one has ever talked about here, and that is the imminent launch of a large number of proceedings from the beginning, to the very change of the judicial council? The change in the court council will be imminent, because these judges who have tried before will no longer exist. That's another one in a series of problems that no one has spoken of here, and I don't know if those of whom we expect to do so and remember. I'm not going to stick around to explain all this illogicality, because I find it unnecessary and useless, given that the moment the Justice Department could react, it didn't, and now it's too late for that reaction. The draft law on the Judicial Academy is also on the agenda, against whose ideas we as a parliamentary group are not, but we believe that it contains some solutions that are not the happiest. Namely, the idea of the existence of the Judicial Academy dates back to the time when the minister of justice was Mr Stojkovic and she found her place in the justice reform strategy. The fact is that future judges and prosecutors lack practical knowledge. That's what I can say best from my experience. The moment I graduated from law school, which was ten years ago, it wasn't common for any of us, the graduate students, to write a lawsuit, a complaint, and not speak of a verdict. It's a fact and a big problem, but we've acquired that knowledge, someone in the courts, someone in the law offices, and what's important is that this magnitude and the level of our knowledge depended solely on where we do the internship and who we do it with. It is in this sense that I see the good side of the Judicial Academy, because it, in my opinion, represents the way to ensure the continued and uniform education of future judges and prosecutors. That's the good side. On the other hand, I think a bill like this carries a big problem, which is that a judicial exam should never be a condition for enrolment at the Judicial Academy. I think it's illogical, I think it's really, really too much. What does that mean? This means that a student first needs to finish law school, so he can do two years of judicial training, either in court, or in the prosecution, or in law school, it's completely irrelevant, that after that he takes a great deal of time to pass a judicial exam, which I'm talking about his personal experience, was more difficult than the entire law school, that I'm saying fully aware of what I'm saying, that after that he's taking an entrance exam at the Judicial Academy, and that he's perfecting himself for another 22 months, and that he's only after that he's passing the final exam. I think it's really too much. I'd like to see where the Ministry's representatives came from, where they found that there was such a solution. Of course, none of us are against the fact that judges and prosecutors should be educated, but then why the judicial exam? Then put him to rest, as the crown of all that, and throw him out as a condition for enrolment at the very judicial academy. We have responded here in amendment and we believe that there is a basis for this amendment to be accepted. On the other hand, I think there are some more, conditionalally speaking, less grudges to the text of the law itself, and in particular, to the appointment of the Director of the Judicial Academy, who does not pass the public competition, and we know that the public competition, for example, works, is called for the students, those who need to gain knowledge at that judicial academy. The grudge is, too, that there is no control over the legality of spending the Justice Academy's money, which is not small. We know that there are people who have permanent employment, there are certain benefits for work, and most of the funds for the work of the Judicial Academy are coming right from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I therefore believe that the Assembly should be the body to whom the annual report on the work of the Judicial Academy is submitted. I also have to say that I don't know how much of the deadline you've provided for, December 1, 2009 for the entry into force of the law, is adequate, because I'm curious how all the actions that must precede the entry into force of the law will be able to be carried out within that time limit. At the very end, I want to make a general point, that I think that it would be much better for our judiciary not to have the laws changed every two months, but that the representatives of the Ministry approach the business in a plan, with some clear vision and strategy, which they have so far shown in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28887	It was used 10 minutes from the time of the Parliament's group, so it is available for another three minutes and 40 seconds. The word has been issued by MP Dejan Mirovic, after him, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28888	Ladies and gentlemen, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure is also on the agenda. For us as a party, but also in a legal sense, members of 13 and 14, because in these members of our judiciary are again referred to the International Court of Justice for the former Yugoslavia, so-called The Hague Tribunal. We think it's a fundamental mistake, not only in political terms, but as far as the legal profession is concerned, it's scandalous. We have to use that term, because if anything is certain, it is certain that this court is far from being a court in the legal sense of the word, it is, above all, a political court. Of course, I believe that the minister will make a very well-known argument, under quotes, that these are our obligations, international legal obligations, but in that sense I would ask the question – if so, are those obligations to so-called. A UN tribunal more significant than the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which we have ratified? Are these obligations more significant than the International Civil Rights Pact, are they more significant than the whole other part of our constitution, which regulates human rights? Finally, since it is widely known that we are a member of the UN, are they so-called. More important than the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? You know, the Hague tribunal and the preservation of human rights, that's two incompatible concepts. In that sense, I'm interested in whether we suspended the importance of human rights for our citizens in The Hague? In that sense, in order not to be subjective, I will give you some kind of statistics that we from the SRS have done and I will give you an example of Dr Vojislav Seselj. The two judges – Fausto Pokar and Teodor Meron, have been presidents of the tribunal for years and are considered to be among the so-called. The most respected judges in that court. As president of the appeal council, the president of the International Criminal Tribunal and member of the appeal council, Judge Fausto Pokar made 33 decisions against Vojislav Seselj between 10 June 2003 and 9 June 2009. On the other hand, he made only one positive decision, and you know it when – 8 December 2006, which is after 28 days of hunger strike, when Mr. Seselj was on the verge of death. It is particularly scandalous that the same judge made a decision prohibiting Mr. Seselj's wife's visit on November 23rd, when he was already on the third week of hunger strike and was on the verge of death. Is that the preservation of human rights, I ask you? On the other hand, you are well aware that during the time of Mr. Pokar, or killed, both Mr. Slobodan Milosevic and until today, it has been widely known that he was not given medical assistance in accordance with the above-mentioned conventions. As for Mr Theodore Meron, who was also the president of The Hague tribunal, when it comes to Mr Seselj, 16 negative decisions were made as president of the appeal council, the president of the ICC and a member of the appeal council, and only one positive, again since 8 December 2006. On the other hand, as president of the tribunal, he did nothing, in accordance with the 19th rule of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence, to prevent ten decisions by the UN tribunal's secretariats, which were, most least, scandalous and which introduced a kind of inhuman isolation, which lasted seven months from December 2003 to June 2004. Do you know what was the excuse for that isolation? The second round of presidential elections in the Republic of Serbia. It's scandalous, it has nothing to do with justice. I must also inform you that this isolation was complete, no phone contact was made with Serbia, with family, or with members of the expert team. There's no excuse for that. Perhaps the excuse is that Mr. Meron was a longtime diplomat in the state of Israel. You probably know about Mr. Mordejo Vanonu's case, who gave the Sunday Times interview in 1986, and that's why he was in prison for 18 years, 11 years in solitary, but that has nothing to do with the modern legal system. This is the UN court, at least on paper. As for the prosecution, you must have read the book of Carla del Ponte, which literally, pages 36 to 58, states the following confessions: "I knew barely anything more about Yugoslavia than I saw on television, or about Yugoslavia I knew almost nothing. I've never traveled to the former Yugoslavia. I must admit, until I became chief prosecutor of the UN tribunal, I didn't even know there was a Republika Srpska." There, that's the pro, the lawyer that needs to be seen by our judiciary. You must know, you're working with Italian prosecutors, that her only qualifications, in a moral sense, are that she was working with Judge Falkone, but that can also be brought under question. She didn't even dare show up at his funeral. So much for her moral character. You must know that. On the other hand, you know how much they appreciated her in Rwanda. She literally experienced being kicked out of President Rwanda's office, Mr. Kagame. So much for her professional and moral character. As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, I'm sure you know that Mr. Seselj's trial was brought in by the D.A.'s 'amicus'. The gentleman doesn't speak Serbian at all, he didn't even read that book that later sentenced Mr. Seselj to 15 months in prison. You must know that, and you know for a fact that he made scandalous conclusions, connected a thousand and some side to a table and someone. You must know that at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, 150 pages are needed for master's work. Now you can see what kind of unmovable conclusions are that you connect one sentence to the 100th page to the one on the 1,000th page. That's scandalous. I would also draw attention to discrimination, which also prohibits international conventions. You must know about Domagoj Margetić, a Croatian journalist who published the names 102 protected witnesses, opened, among them Mr Mesic. He's been punished for three months and 10,000 euros. On the other hand, Mr. Seselj published in his book only public documents, which were already known to The Hague prosecutors, and on no page published the name of a protected witness, nor his password. In that sense, you see what kind of judgment that is. I will not speak further, I could talk much longer about it, but consider whether it is legal, I know it is political, especially because of the EU, appropriate and honorable to appeal to such a court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28889	Eight minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the Parliament Group's time. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, after him, has the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28890	Excuse me, how long do we have till the end?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28891	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 43 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28892	Thank you. I warned you in January that we would inevitably have to discuss these judicial laws again. That's when you laughed and said it wasn't going to happen. You see, you've come again. Here comes the cat at the door. The imperfect system could not be perfected, nor could you complete what you intended, regardless of what happened yesterday, in the opening statement of the Justice Minister, and today, woke several MPs from the DS and SPS who have announced several very significant sentences, but with a fact in the future. I do not dispute that you have good wishes, that you want to be more beautiful, better, left, etc., it is your legitimate right, but I must remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that, among other things, intelligence is appreciated and that you can call on your experience. I've had quite the experience in this building, I've always sharply criticized you when you're wrong, I've said what's wrong, where you'll come back and, just to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this same story has been heard since 2000. In 2001, they were good judges, the children of lawyers, the secretary of agricultural cooperatives were appointed; today they elected him, immediately became the president of the court, and that is pro-European. At the end of 2001, this DOS and the set of judicial laws broke up, so it went with innovations, and it started with some new concept, and then some new, smart, beautiful, good judges came back, all with the story that in the future it would be nice, fine, there would be no more of Milosevic's judges from the time when they punished, when they tried "the Resistance," when they were suffocating the media, etc., so one transformation took place, and since then the construction of the appeals courts began, and then a series of laws that delayed the application of the law began, so we had a sort of parallel criminal law. We had in one period, I think, three criminal codes in force. Everything was European, everything was given by God, and for everything you had the support of both the EU and NATO, and the CIA, and America, and England, and all the future proletarian states. Just to remind you, in 2006, in Official Messenger 46, the Law on the Training of Judges and Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors and Judges and Prosecutors has been published. Today, on the agenda, we have a law on the Judicial Academy that we're going to put off what you brought in 2006. It has been no longer European since 2006, but primitive, Balkan, Ottoman, it needs to be destroyed, destroyed. Then someone makes us conclude that if the number of judges is reduced, with a tendency to increase the number of cases, it will be easier for the judges. How'd that shiny mind come up with that? The militia has well explained to you how many cases will be lost during the move, and one, defending your concept of law, has forgotten that there is only one prosecution and one court for this high-tech crime, and it has killed itself by explaining that there is going to be a court in Ariel to deal with it, and he is not even in charge. See what you use as an argument to justify Bosko Ristic, Goran Ciric, you who should cheer and dress in the judiciary and in the prosecution! Your municipal committees are finishing a poll on who can be a judge. The same thing you did in 2001, so when you had a fight with the DSS, then the correspondence came out -- me three, you two, these two, this one, this one couldn't get through, this one passed, etc. You're doing the same thing. Why? Well, you used American and Canadian money. The other day, you were taking pictures with some Canadian guy over there, like, you were epochally finishing up with us, and you didn't finish anything, you destroyed the judiciary. A year and a half ago, I told you what would happen to this concept of reform of yours. You reform the state even when you increase institutions, you reform the state even when you end what you did. That's amazing, people. Made agencies, and now they're reducing the number of employees. Expansive courts, special departments of special prosecutors, all special; noise, early this year, reduce basic, higher, appeals. It was a trade court, now we're going back to business. If it didn't start now, maybe some court building, to hide the money laundering, since I can see that health care has already gone with arson. How many years in the Republic of Serbia's budget is the item – the means to start the work of the Court of Appeal? Where are your dishes? There isn't. The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. Why? What Goran Knezevic said the other day – I am not guilty, I have implemented state policy. You think that with Konstantinovic, the high-minded, you can cover. Well, he's Boris Tadic's defender. Your Homen, who whispers to you, was not allowed to come, because he knows he's going to get "labrified" for what he does in the prosecution and in the courts. Who did you take to court? Who works for you at the Ministry? You know what your Vojkan Simic said when you were to choose the High Council of the Judiciary?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28893	People's MP, I'm just asking you to remind us of our obligation to treat others politely.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28894	We're up to two, ma'am. (President: Continue. I'm up to two, I'm up to two. What did Vojkan Simic do? He went to the First Municipal Court and said, "Let Tanya, I don't know what her name is; it doesn't matter; they rebelled; how she, she has no idea." No, if she isn't, then there won't be any. We barely kicked him out of that court three years ago, barely forced him out, like that Gordana Mihajlovic when we pushed him out, so he wouldn't pass. Now, it's nice of you to imagine this judicial academy, but can it solve the problems that exist in the judiciary? How, for example, can the Justice Academy solve the problem, first of all, of the morals of the people who work in the judiciary? Don't underestimate law school, don't underestimate judicial exams, don't underestimate law offices, don't underestimate court traineeships. All this gives its results, but everything depends on man, on the quality of material, on the substrates, whether he is loyal to the profession, whether he wants to respect the law, or whether he likes suitcases, envelopes, etc., etc. On one occasion, I'll explain it to you. Yesterday I was in Valyev, and a man said to me, "I have a bar, I don't have a radio, I don't have a speaker. I was sued by Sokoy, and I got him in court. They couldn't prove I had to pay for those copyrights. I was sued by another association that protects copyright. In the first degree, they lost, three times went to the second degree, when the fourth time went to the second degree, they got me. The same situation from the point of view of facts and, imagine, the same judge solved in the first case, when he was "Sokoj" and when he was the second subject. How can you correct that mental feller of the judge, I think some prince, female, male, doesn't matter, to the Judicial Academy? How can you imagine that Bosko Ristic and his friend Ćirić, and you, Mrs Malovic, will choose the right people to do the job in the judiciary? I'm telling you, it's gonna be all freakish. You just can't do it. Did you know there was a riot in the Bar Association over the election of Kiric? And lawyers are supposed to complain. No one asked them. She sat down with her brother and decided to be the one and finish the job. Ciric and Bosko Ristic, friends, finish. They're shaking the judiciary in Nis and wider, and they're gonna choose someone as a quality fit?- I'm sorry. He must have an DS membership card, or he'd be drowning, as my Nishili would say. That's what Nishli knows. Everyone in Nis knows what's going on. You don't really know that, so I'm obliged to let you know what's going on around you? How is that possible? Mrs. Malovic, let me give you an example. At the end of last year, the Law on Local Elections was passed and consultation was organised with the judges of district courts, since the district courts were competent, under this new law, to resolve on the basis of Article. 47, 49, 56. Law on local elections. It's all familiar. It's even public knowledge, at least I tried to make it known and every day I try to make it more public. Then, at the Belgrade District Court, a group of judges who have shown absolute ignorance to the verdict on appeal. They didn't even go past law school. Mrs. Malovic, when the law requires the form of a contract, it is said that the signatures must be verified in court, and so it is done. Something like that can't be broken up the way someone fakes something, goes to the county office and checks out the signature. That's impossible. There are 250 court disputes where the SRS has been sued by former council members, who are demanding an end to the contract before the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. They've lost all the items. They're the only ones who got it in Rakovica. What do you think it's for, Mrs. Malovic? Let me remind you, if you don't believe me, something that is contrary to all the regulations that exist in this country. Ask Mrs. Sladjana Bojovic, Zivana Djukanovic, Mirjana Arangelovic, who for months have passed a verdict rejecting the appeal and demonstrate that they do not know what the contract is, what is irrevocableness, what is over. How do you plan on bringing them back to normal through the Justice Academy? That's impossible. How can they resent Gilas, Boris Tadic, Bojana Milic or Branko Radajka? Do you know who Branko Radyukko is? In 1992, 1994, he dealt cigarettes in Resnik with his sister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28895	People's MP, I asked you to remind yourselves of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which bind us all in a certain manner during speech, address and presentation. I now warn you to take care of what you say and to remember that the responsibility for the public word is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure that defines our work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28896	Would you be so kind as to listen to me? Any exposure, when the general facts are presented, speakers can hear if they want or do not want to. What is widely known is not disputed, Mrs. Komic, as today's date is not disputed. Don't make me prove today's date. That's understood. People look at it, see what the date is, and it's all clear. I only bring out the general facts. There's not even a shred of my emotions here. I just want to point out the problems with the judiciary. Why won't our judiciary get out of these problems? Because they designed the judiciary to be a mess. They should not be governed by the judiciary, for the protagonists of the system – the worse, the better. Look who's on strike today. People who protest in this country, 70% of them, among other things, mention the judiciary. Why? Because they couldn't do justice there. Mrs. Malovic, there has been no justice in our courts since the DS took the judiciary. Everyone's aware of that. Where's the culprit? The culprit is not in the judiciary. The culprit is in power, in rotten coalitions, which due to various arrangements are able to run over everything. They are not interested in the Constitution, nor the law, nor the regulations, but in some very concrete current interests and that is our problem. Tell me, what companies have managed to negotiate privatisation, the bankruptcy? Jojic told you about one Moldovan, how much he handles bankruptcy procedures and how much he gets for each of these bankruptcy proceedings. What have you solved? You haven't solved anything, but you want to achieve a monopoly of DS and the area of justice. That's what you're trying to do. What's your judicial reform? You have imposed this rule on the Judicial Academy, to calm down the judges who are facing the rebellion, to calm the prosecutors who are facing the rebellion, to calm the lawyers who are facing the rebellion. You are all who work in the judiciary before the rebellion. How did you do that? No one's ever done that before. You used to talk about lustration in the judiciary. You know what needs to be done today with what you've done in the judiciary. Not to mention. What court is working? Can you imagine? It's our judiciary. A man from Serbia, a refugee, divorced a woman. A woman went abroad and he pays her child support in America, where she works. How is that possible? Who's doing the job? And in law, she's preparing for monopolization. You know what kind of cases lawyers get. Not every lawyer can be free on that market. As "Delta" has a monopoly in the store, the DS wants a monopoly in the judiciary. Why? To be another pillar that protects your authority and everything you do in this country. And what you do, citizens feel the best. I have no intention of scaring anyone, no citizens, no judges, no prosecutors. Remember, Mrs. Malovic, a few days ago my friend Peter was told by the judge – yes, Pero, I had to make a solution to disrupting the property in 15 minutes after the proposal came in, but be patient by December 1st, so I'll see what happens then. That's what people in the judiciary say. What's on trial today? Today it's all blocked, people don't want to mind their lawyers or their parties, because they don't know who's going to pass. You're the one who raised the tension. Who are you putting into these judicial institutions that need to make the choice? Of course, recognizable people. What is their value criterion going to be during the election? How can a lawyer choose judges and prosecutors? I realize it's a retired lawyer. I realize he's some other lawyer. Is it possible we don't have a better Bosko Ristic to cheer and dress us up? Remember that Bosko Ristić was doing the Constitutional Charter; everything Bosko Ristić did was ruined. Remember in 2003, at this time, what happened in Serbia. Who took off Leprechaun Karamarkovic? Who was seducing order in the judiciary? What did we get? You brought us that Ostojić, who didn't even meet the conditions for a republican public prosecutor. He's the reason you've even changed the law on the job. And that was pro-European, was it pro-democratic?- I'm sorry. You presented everything to us as a colorful lie. You talk about the future, you talk about how nice you want to be. Face reality – there is no reality what you say, there is no, every trial is almost set up. The Supreme Court annuls the MUP's solutions eight times and orders it return to the SRS' jeep. Interior ministers change, but first-degree and second-degree solutions are always the same – they protect William Walker and the OSCE more than fundamental rights and fundamental legal principles on which this country is built. There's no more supreme judge you can change in the Supreme Court, and you're talking about the rule of law, some rule of law. Well, ask the citizens how much they believe in courts, ask the citizens how much they believe in the prosecution? Every D.A.'s on a warrant. What makes these prosecutors different from Carla del Ponte? At least she openly confessed in the book and said – Djindjic said to me, "Take him and don't bring him back again." What did you do for those people? No, you want to tribunalize this war crimes court and, what you're doing, make Control Law No. 10, as in Germany. That's not how this country is run, so don't worry about our interests as a nation, and I know you're here to do the dirtiest work with this people and this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28897	It's been used 19 minutes since the MP's group's time. The word has a folk letter from Verica Radet, and after it, a folk letter from Judita Popovic. The SRS parliamentary group is available for another 24 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the debate on these six draft laws in the field of justice, the subject of what is planned in the area of the judiciary, so on. reforms. We've talked about it from the beginning, when it comes to these laws that you're proposing to change or supplement today. The position of the SRS is unchanged. First, we object, and that's our programming definition, the existence of any special courts. When it comes to what you're trying to call reform, we were the loudest when we tried to distract you from getting into this adventure at all. You will see, unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia will see judges, prosecutors, lawyers, all who will be involved in any further litigation – they will see after the New Year as far as we were right. You have now really brought the justice system into one state when no one in the courts talks to anyone, I assume that you, Mrs. Malovic, know, so everyone thinks that someone else in the DS is uriging. Next, she announces that you are going to retire, that you will keep some who are only a year or two more until retirement. Yes, yes, Mrs. Malovic, perhaps that information does not reach out to you, since you obviously do not communicate enough with the citizens. We have this information from both the judges and the prosecutors and the employees of the judiciary – chaos is in the courts, waiting for what you are preparing for them from what you call reform. A particular problem will be, and this will only be shown in practice, the abolition of 106 courts, or perhaps 104 courts, I am not sure, in the Republic of Serbia. I would not like to repeat now the arguments we used to try to convince you not to bring this law, you and the assembly majority, but it is interesting how the ruling coalitions spoke today about these proposals, of course, again not specifically about the proposals, or at least about them, but more about the situation in the judiciary at all – sometimes, now and after 1 January 2010. It is amazing then to hear that this is how the choice of judges is planned to protect the court position, that this will prevent the employment, that is, the choice of judges on the party line, as it is said, from keeping the sons and daughters of some judges, famous people, etc., from being elected judges – because the National Assembly will no longer do so, but rather a few people in the VSS will do so. It's not logical to think like that, and no one who thinks logically can conclude something like that. If nothing else, in the National Assembly so far, when we talked about proposals to elect judges and public prosecutors, every judge and every public prosecutor who knew it was on the agenda, or that it would come to this parliament's agenda, he had to and took care of his behavior, because he knew that one of the MPs would publicly talk about his character and his work. What are you doing now? You are now completely avoiding and removing from the public the choice of judges and prosecutors; this will be done by a group of people. One of his colleagues says he won't take care of party membership, and you, Mrs. Malovic, are when DS. It's something that's not even a public secret. It's official information and it certainly doesn't bother you, and it doesn't bother me, of course, it's your commitment. He's a colleague of Bosko Ristić's when DS. Nata Mesarovic, whether or not accepted it, but it is true, a regimeal judge. If she hadn't, she wouldn't be doing what she's doing, and it's absolutely undeniable. Mr. Ciric, whom you chose, when we talked about it, I read here, you were not present, you were not present, the letter of the Law Chamber of Serbia, with the signatures of lawyers such as the honourable lawyer Sava Angelkovic, whom you certainly cannot deny professionalism, nor any of you who disagreed with that signature, or with that letter, a colleague, Mr. Ciric, was proposed by the Bar Association of Law; it was not proposed by the Assembly, but proposed by the Management Board, and unfortunately by the Management Board by the party staff. Now I'm talking about one piece, just the VSS. I'm looking at you, but I'm not thinking about you, Mrs. Malovic, but I'm thinking about colleagues who spoke, and now they're not here. I have no intention of challenging the replica, but I am expressing the views of the SRS. You cannot claim that you four declared Democrats, along with the other members of the Council, can be less party biased than the Parliament of 250 MPs, who do so publicly, who bring their views and opinions to the public, in front of citizens who follow Parliament, and you will do so closed in the office. So it's impossible for you to convince anyone that this is a more democratic and realistic way of deciding on the choice of judges or public prosecutors. Then, says a colleague, I repeat again, there will be no sons and daughters, etc., there will be no such choice. You know for sure, the citizens of Serbia also know, because there has been a vote here, that the son of the Supreme Court is also the judge of the Fourth Municipal Court. Let's not talk about what the paper said the other day about the Court case in Negotin. It's hard to repeat, the judge is a husband, the wife is a lawyer, the prosecutor is a nephew, sister-in-law, a grandson; it's just amazing how intertwined it is. They wrote the other day, I repeat, a newspaper, a dozen people from a family of drama courts in Negotina, both municipal and county. I once read here about the Court case in Prokuplje. Also, relationships; two daughters, dad, one son-in-law, one sister-in-law, all, that judge, that lawyer, the one in one council, the one in the other council. So you can't do it, you won't, you have no intention of stopping something like that. On the contrary, you intend to implement the lustration through these laws, and the judges know it. Now does a court and a judge judge judge a case other than someone, not to offend anyone, a faceless name and a last name, or some insignificant firm, etc.? No, no one judges any name that could in any way be brought into contact with any political party, especially the Democratic Party; it stays in the drawer. They can't be people, they can't be judges, they can't be about any company that's maybe one of the sponsors, whether or not they're mentioned by Goran Knezevic, but people know, they're afraid, they can't, they keep them in the drawer. You've been stalled for almost a year in the judiciary. You said the other day, Mrs. Malovic, that so far it has happened, in this present judicial system, that, let's say, in the Court of Justice in Aryl, you took this case, so much faster to solve cases than in any court in Belgrade. You're saying these reforms will make the difference that they will cancel out, that there will be no difference. Obviously, I'm not smart enough to understand that. I hope you'll explain that later. How will the Court of Justice's suspension in Ariel reduce the number of years of dispute resolution in Belgrade? You may think you will be dealing with Belgrade, because you yourself said that in Belgrade's courts proceedings are being conducted much longer than in Ariel, and then now the rapper will be Belgrade courts, not that court in Ariel where the disputes have ended, as you said, within a very short time. Also, I want to ask you something and ask you to answer it. I'd like you to respond to something Mr. Free Homen made public. The secretary of state talked about introducing software against housing fraud, about a number of cases in all of Serbia, where investors, false investors, sold multiple apartments, tricked citizens, so he said earlier, Mr Oliver Dulic, that the state can in no way now stand in the protection of these deceived citizens, in other words, will protect investors, but now you are introducing software that will immediately, when someone checks the contract on the purchase of the apartment, by clicking on the button, see and determine whether the apartment has already been sold or not. It's for every praise, but something I've been very worried about, is that Mr. Homen says that all contracts will only be certified in three courts: Third, Fourth and Fifth Municipal Court. Does this mean that someone who buys an apartment in Babusnica, Kniæ, Sombor will have to come to the Third, Fourth or Fifth Municipal Court on the overahead of the contract? I see you're nodding your head, but I'd like you to tell us. You nod your head that that's not true, well, then turn your attention to your associates that it's not enough to stand in front of a camera, or in front of a reporter's microphone and say something that comes to mind, but the Secretary of State is speaking on behalf of the State, on behalf of the Ministry. The citizens responded, we were called by citizens who read the news, so they say – are we going to have to come, 300 or 500 kilometers to Belgrade for a contract overrun? I will also return to the presentation of colleagues who praised these reforms and these laws, colleagues from the ruling majority. We heard something that we, in fact, know and what we've been talking about for years, especially in the course of last year, when you, Mrs. Malovic, took over the great obligation of judicial reform and, worst of all, you are convinced that it will be a good job, and you will see, you are a young woman, it will be your career. You're doing something very bad, but, well, it's your choice and the choice of the ruling majority who votes for it. So said one of the MPs who will vote for these laws that the proposals for all the laws and, in general, the proposals for these reforms were attended by NGOs and various foreign organisations. I wrote it, that's exactly what it's said. That's really amazing. We claim that NGOs govern you by the government, that various foreign governments govern you by government, that tycoons and foreigners have made you a government. You denied it, I still don't mean personally, but all the ministers who represent some law here represent the government, and today someone who voted for you as a government publicly here confirms it in front of the MPs and the public, in front of the citizens of Serbia. Now, as long as it allows me to say something about these suggestions of yours, I must tell you, Mrs. Komic, that you have damaged the SRS in 25 minutes, because you have not insisted that the Justice Committee meet and that as the committee responsible discuss these proposals, where the five members of that committee were prepared to exclude their opinion and use five minutes to talk about this exceptional opinion, i.e. the reasons for excluding opinions. But, well, that's your interpretation and attitude of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28899	People's MPs, you can only talk about the will to single out your opinion and, possibly, the damage of your five minutes; you can't talk about the isolation of someone else's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28900	My colleague Krasic authorized me, and I've been empowered by other colleagues, and I can talk, I'm talking about the SRS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28901	People's MPs, please, it's a demeaning of fellow Members of Parliament, whether they're from your parliamentary group or from another. The opinion can only be singled out by an MP alone, you cannot delegate the right to have someone give you an opinion. I'm asking you to talk about your five minutes, because it's a disdain for your colleagues. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28902	Mrs. Komic, I ask that you do not disrespect me and that you do not interrupt the discussion that SRS MPs want to hear, and I have the right to remind myself that we are discussing these laws without the opinion of the board of directors, because the ruling majority did not want to make a quorum, and the five of us in the SRS were waiting for quorum and we agreed to issue an opinion. We're not free shooters, we belong to the SRS MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28903	People's MPs, I now give you a warning. You cannot demean other MPs, you can only speak of your own personal will to isolate your opinion. No one else's opinion can stand out. I warn you to treat other MPs with respect. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28904	I hope this time of yours hasn't been recorded in my debate. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts. When you spoke of this law, or when you adopted it, we drew attention to you that it was necessary, and it would be, Mrs Malovic, that during your ministry you would suggest to Parliament the codification of the Criminal Code, that we do not have any criminal acts in every law. We've had amendments back then, but you haven't adopted them, and now you're talking here about the jurisdiction of the High Court, among other things, and you're still listing a violation of the ban on hate speech, protection of the rights to private life, etc. Do you guarantee that you have now covered all the crimes? You're not, you're not safe, and you'll see through our amendments what you missed, for example. So instead of doing what would be in the interest of both citizens and the justice system and people employed in the judiciary, and then in the interest of the state, you are doing something that someone who votes for you says to you, NGOs and various foreigners who do so to you in courts and in the Ministry. Proposal for a law on judges and on public prosecutors. You said in your explanation that you were proposing this because of the law on the judicial academy. As a lawyer, we're colleagues on the job. It's a miracle you didn't mind. How can you propose a law based on a law that has not been passed and that has not entered into force, no matter how much you are in a hurry? Then you should have passed this law first, so that these two would align with it. Anyway, we don't like it, and we put the amendment on. We think it is very bad for the judge, or public prosecutor, to be a member of the managing body of the judicial institution, based on the decision of the High Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors. It's something that's unacceptable for the SRS and it's a classic conflict of interest. We'll talk about that, of course, when we talk about the details. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes proceedings is, of course, the law which attracted the attention of the SRS MPs most; you heard it in the debate of colleagues who spoke before me. This is the fifth amendment to this law, the fifth amendment or addition. That says it's a bad concept, that it's a bad approach, that you do ad hoc, that you work like The Hague tribunal when you need it. They're changing their rules depending on how to tame war crimes indictees, how else to threaten the basic human and procedural rights of Vojislav Seselj, for example. We know best how they are violated and the procedural rights and human rights of our president in The Hague tribunal are violated, and therefore we are particularly bothered by your attempt to tribunalise the Serbian judiciary. You've already done better by creating these special forces and for war crimes, and for organized crime, etc. That's how you favored your judges, your prosecutors, favored them, and through this code you still favour them, because they do the same job as their colleagues in county courts, but first they get three times the salary, and now they get double the salary, so now you're predicting them a benevolent internship, and no one's convinced us yet, I don't think you'll succeed, either, that there's more responsibility and that more work has a judge who judges in the county court, some difficult and complicated object, than what you've called organized crime, or what's a war crime. The crime is a crime, whether this or that, it makes no difference, as far as the SRS is concerned. It doesn't make any difference who's going to be a public prosecutor and who's going to be court-martialed. So you can't and should never have introduced these special forces, but you did it and now you're getting closer to The Hague. For the conduct in the cases of criminal offences referred to in Article 2, you say – those crimes referred to in Article 2 refer to serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia as of 1 January 1991, which are listed in the Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which is to remind the UN tribunal. So these crimes are being charged with by the D.A.'s office, you say, for war crimes. The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is being run by a war crimes prosecutor, if this law is not different. The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is subject to the provisions of the law governing the public prosecutor's office. But when a candidate for the war crimes prosecutor, or the election of a deputy war crimes prosecutor, is proposed, candidates who have the necessary expertise and experience in the area of criminal law, international humanitarian law and human rights are given priority. Mrs. Malovic, do you believe that there is someone in Serbia who is a judge, someone who is guilty, who has graduated from law school without having certain expertise in criminal law, international humanitarian law or human rights? Are you aware that in this way, knowingly or unconsciously, you insult other judges and other prosecutors? Why are you favouring and how are you going to find that someone can respect human rights and someone can't? One of my colleagues spoke to me, my colleague Mirović – did you, as Ministry, ever react to human rights violations by Vojislav Seselj? Don't you notice that they are being violated in the most cruel way possible by the human rights of the Serbian state, Vojislav Seselj, to violate his human rights day and day? How come you don't notice that? How come you don't notice which one of those judges and prosecutors out there can appreciate human rights and who can't? How will you, Bosko Ristic, Ciric and Supreme Court President Nata Mesarovic, assess which judges in Serbia are able to appreciate human rights, which they cannot? Where are your criteria? Who are you going to ask for confidence from? Really, amazing. You say that, exclusively from the provisions of this law, the Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary may refer a judge from the second court to work in the Office of the High Court, in time of six years, with his written consent. The referring judge shall fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 4. During the deployment, or referrals to the Higher Court, judges who have the necessary expertise and experience in the field of international humanitarian law and human rights have the advantage. If they don't know this, how can they work where they work?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28905	People's MPs, the time available to you and your MP group has been used. Thank you. This concludes the morning part of our session and continues our work at 3:10 p.m., by discussing the application for a word in a joint principled search. The word will be delivered by the MP Judita Popovic, and after her, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon, in the debate in accordance with the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the joint principled search, on the proposals of the law according to items 1 to 6 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, after her, MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28907	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have one position, therefore, the LDP has the position to support all government's legislative proposals that have reform capacity, i.e. have the capacity to harmonise regulations with EU regulations. For this reason, we could also support the intensification of this law on the Judicial Academy, when the law as the main objective establishes the efficiency of the court, the professional work of the judiciary, everything the LDP stands for. I will deliberately refer only to this legislative proposal, from a set of laws that are on today's agenda, for the reason that we consider this to be a newspaper in our judiciary and that it deserves a serious analysis. I again underline that the LDP, when it comes to reform laws, provides full support for these laws. However, if there is something in the legal proposals that, in our opinion, does not represent a solution that could be characterised as reformal, nor as an improvement in our judiciary, or if it does not correspond to the legal solutions already adopted in the EU, in this case we must make it clear and be reserved under such a legal proposal. In terms of this law on the Judicial Academy, we have several objections, and among other things, that this law introduces one newspaper, it's the Academy, and that forgets that we already have some sort of solution for the education of the future judicial staff, we have so-called. A judicial exam. In order for a graduate lawyer to pass a judicial exam, he must first work as an intern, he must pass a judicial exam, and only then has the right to apply for certain vacancys. We leave this solution, and we introduce a new one, and that's the Judicial Academy. It is, in fact, only an overture and trust already acquired the candidate's expertise, which he acquired during his education, so, study, during the traineeship, during the passing of the judicial exam. When a candidate for the Judicial Academy is registered, he must first pass the entrance exam. When he passed his entrance exam, he is two more years under the obligation to work in that judicial academy, i.e. to practice and acquire certain expertise and practical knowledge, in order to eventually pass the final exam. So we see how many exams there are, how many checks there are, to finally get one candidate for a future judge, or prosecutor. Is that what it takes? Is it necessary for us to have this interstage between graduation and the final exam of the Judicial Academy, I would really ask that question, because I don't see the purpose of this whole procedure? I think it's much simpler to go from a degree to the end of the whole process at the Judicial Academy. The next complaint, very important, perhaps even most important, is that, literally, the five-member commission of the judicial academy, before which the candidate takes the entrance exam, is relevant and decides on who will be admitted to the Judicial Academy. In fact, the commission establishes, determines, appoints a future judge. When the candidate passed with success, when he completed the whole training and passed the final exam, he has an obligation, therefore, to apply to any vacancy of the court, or prosecution. The High Judicial Council, again, is in some kind of obligation to put it in a priority position as regards candidates for the election of a judge or prosecutor. That doesn't have to be considered only when there are no candidates who have finished the Judicial Academy. So there is one obligation, and as far as the three-year term is concerned, because there is something about the obligation of the candidate who finished the Judicial Academy. We have focused and established a commission that is proportionate and authorized to appoint judges, because it is not even about the choice, when there are already some obligations both by candidates and by the High Council of Justice. The next objection to this legislative proposal is that the Judicial Academy puts the main focus on the theoretical acquisition of knowledge, on a professional training, training that is more focused on learning, knowledge acquisition, not direct experience, but on one book, therefore, theoretical acquisition of expertise. This legislative proposal, for example, found that practical training is done in court or in other institutions or legal offices, and that this practical training, by some stages, is assessed only in the court or the prosecution, and that the evaluations of these other institutions, which these practical and theoretical trainings in the course of the Judicial Academy, are not sought and not available. Otherwise, this legislative proposal does not follow a practical solution to the way in which this training is obtained, practical training in courts, or prosecutors. Why? Practical training can, in fact, be acquired only in case someone participates in the conduct of the procedure, in the decision-making process. Otherwise, according to our positive regulations, the proceedings are conducted, heard by witnesses and decided by judges, and certainly not by an intern, or a judicial assistant. If it's done, it's against the law. Again, if this training is done, it is done by being quite passive in the way of training. So these are the basic objections that we have on this law on the Judicial Academy. Otherwise, again, we notice an old pain in our legal proposals, which is that we are giving back too much influence to the executive government, and this can be seen in the Management Board, where three members are proposed by the government. It is really unnecessary for the government to appear with its representatives and to participate in the management of the judicial academy. If we were to sum up all of our objections to this legislative proposal, we could conclude that it is the government's influence, the executive authority, where it does not belong, that it is unnecessarily complicated and dissipating the whole process, from the moment the school was completed, to the choice of the judge, or the prosecutors, and that it is a really inconclusive and vague way, i.e. why this possibility is left, in fact, the obligation to pass judicial exams, if we have already established a judicial academy. Therefore, there are some good solutions, but if new solutions are added to the old ones, then we cannot get the result expected from this judicial academy. Otherwise, no matter how much we try to strengthen the efficiency and expertise of the work of the judiciary, unfortunately, it is constantly lost sight that the work of judges and prosecutors is directly related to a system of values declared in a society, which one society advocates. This system of values, in fact, determines how these regulations will be applied, whether these regulations will remain at some declarative level, or indeed, if they have this reform and pro-European capacity, they will live in practice by applying them to judges. Because obviously we don't have one built system of values, we hesitate about what the dominant values of our society are. It may also happen that the Prime Minister Dragisa Cvetkovic is rehabilitated in Nis, the Prime Minister who is otherwise a signator of the Troika Pact, and to lose sight of the same Dragisa Cvetkovic as the signator and two truly anti-Semitic regulations in 1940. One regulation refers to the work of a human use product store, which is owned by Jews. Mandatory audits have been carried out, or audits have been carried out under that regulation, those actions owned by Jews, with the Jews unable to establish new human-food products after that regulation. The second regulation referred to a limited number of students and students who would be admitted to high school, teaching schools, higher, higher and universities in Serbia, for students and students of Jewish origin. These are two regulations that are clearly marked as anti-Semitic, which rely directly on the ideology of fascism, as neither Hitler would be ashamed of them. If we are in favour of joining the EU, if we bear in mind that this EU advocates anti-fascism, that the EU is created as a result of Europe's desire never to repeat World War II and Fascism again, if we are to advocate that this fascism is no longer a fertile ground in Serbia, if we have passed the Law on the prohibition of discrimination, if we have provided for a criminal act of racial, religious and national intolerance, that is, the spread of that impatience, in that case, I do not see how it could have happened to rehabilitate such a person who openly advocated fascism, for the ideology of fascism. (President: Time. ) We can pass whatever laws you want, on improving the efficiency and professional work of the judiciary, however, if we, on the one hand, rehabilitate such open fascists, and, on the other hand, applaud the statesman and President Medvedev in this same assembly when he talks about the fight against fascism and advocates anti-fascism, we send very wrong signals to judges who will have to apply the laws and who, above all, would also have to share justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28908	Thank you. Ambassador Mico Rogovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28909	Thank you, Madam President. At the end of the joint principle debate, on the draft law on the Judicial Academy, on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, I can only say that the very idea of adopting this law is not bad. Why am I saying this? For the reason that in the previous period, due to the reforms in the area of higher education, it was necessary to put out the fires, so by passing this law it is trying, because the ugliest person in the case was in the field of law school. When I say this, I mean the fact that unlike earlier, today you can get a degree in law school and gain dozens of newly founded universities and their out-of-state departments; practically, there is no city that gives its significance in the Republic of Serbia and that there is no law school in it. On the other hand, it seems that, as in any other area, in the legal profession for ten years, nepotism and political ties in the selection of staff, to the extent that the relevant personnel are placed on very responsible functions, so it is no wonder, given the fact that citizens still have the least confidence in the judiciary and the prosecution. The problem with this law is that it represents only fulfilling the mere form. There is no defined content, the content seems very confusing and therefore does not look like the shape of the bill. Fulfilling the form has become an established way of thinking of our legislator, i.e. you. The question is raised not only in terms of the number of laws passed, but also how to implement them. There is no question of the results that will be achieved, well, automatically, not by this draft law on the judicial academy, and we claim that this is a draft law on the judicial agency, and time will show whether you or the SNS have assessed it well. The laws exist to regulate certain areas of social life. When this law is carefully read, everyone seems to have done their job at first sight, and the translators, who have made the most of their efforts to translate the law from the environment well; it seems that the proposer has done his part of the job in a good way, but no one here has entered into the essence. This is one general impression, and in today's discussions and the impression of the SNS, and this bill, or draft law, cannot, regardless of any sublegal acts that will follow it and to the adoption of a large number of amendments that have entered the assembly procedure, receive a transitional assessment. The Serbian Progressive Party has submitted a number of amendments to the bill, for the reasons I have already stated, and in the case of a joint principle debate, I will stick to the most important amendments. I will start from Article 3, where it is said that the Academy has its headquarters in Belgrade, and it never determines whether it will have or will carry out any activities outside Belgrade, outside the seat. If we freely interpret this law, we can come to the conclusion that it does not have to be so, but it is quite certain that theoretical training will be in Belgrade. In what way will this training be attended, I ask you, Madam Minister, that the training will only be on weekends, will that training be turned, as well as the law, into a mere form, whose only purpose would it be for the students of this school to collect a number of signatures, as proof that they attended lectures, because given the stated finding, it can indeed happen? This law required you to predict decentralisation, or decentralisation of the Academy's work, but since you didn't do it, we fear this fact. You didn't predict anywhere, but you can predict what happened. learning at a distance, which in this case, the application of this law and the way students are educated from the inside, would really be the best solution. You did not foresee the opening of the entire programme to professional lawyers, to law schools and professional associations, because in their connection with the Academy there can be the best solutions to the work of this institution. In Article 9 of the Law, you state that the Management Board is responsible for the adoption of statutes, to choose, to resolve, and to all those so-called ‘. The activities receive a 30% prize from the Court of Justice's basic salary, and you do not specify who is responsible for preparing and proposing the statutes, possibly, the Ministry of Justice or anyone else, but this article does not show who will prepare and propose the statute. The fact is that, for example, various associations of citizens of several members have an annual work plan, and you in this article only state that the Management Board will deal with the analysis of the annual report. Based on what plan? In this article you do not specify any activity related to the annual plan and any plan related to, say, the current year. What kind of annual report will exist, and why should there be, if there is no annual plan? In Article 19, which refers to specially trained mentors and lecturers, you did not foresee whether they could be members of the Management Board, or that they could not be members of the Management Board, and then of the Programme Council and of the Board of Receipts, and you had to let this member know that they could not be; then there was a conflict of interest, because they would only happen to decide on their rights, obligations, literally, their status. Article 22 The bill provides for the Academy to be financed from the budget. It would be fine, given that you will pass this law, because for that you have a majority, that you have provided for a special item in the budget, for the reason that there may be a delay in the work of the Academy, because you will be waiting for the transfer of funds from the resorient, i.e. Your ministry. Article 26 provides for the number of users of initial training, by harmonising their numbers with an estimate of the number of vacancys, or the vacancy of deputy public prosecutors, increased by 30% compared to that number. It is good that the assessment is the real High Council of the judiciary, but the problem is with this member, which is not the best solution and communication, i.e. the link with the members of the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors relating to the conditions for retirement. Articles 28 to 34 of the Law have regulated the issue of the admission exam. The most serious objection to these members of the law is that the material of the entrance exam will pass through the hands of the Programme Council, which proposes it, then, to the Management Board, which approves it, and to the Commission, which implements it. Normally, there are a number of employees in various cabinets. At the very least, it is a number of over 100 members, or 100 persons, and it is quite certain that people who are desirable will receive them, or such people are automatically in a good position, given that these materials can have hands before others and are really placed in an unequal position compared to others. Sadly, the measure of resourcefulness in our society has become the ability to cheat, lie, and steal, not the ability to do anything else. Article 36 is the most discreet member of the proposal for this law. Foresaw the evaluation of the students of initial training by mentors and lecturers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28910	Mr. Rogovic, time. Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28911	I thank you, I will continue in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28912	Thank you. Anyone else who hasn't used their right to Article 93 wants a word? (No) Madam Minister, do you want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28913	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank all of you who participated in this debate in principle. I want to clarify certain provisions for which questions have been asked here. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that, together with the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the Association of Judges of Serbia, and the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, then different prominent judges and prosecutors in our country, and different comparative experiences of Portugal, Spain and France were used. Also, in the Ministry of Justice, there is an expert from France, a judge in France, who directly conveyed to us the way the Justice Academy was organised in France. It was just some defining moment, which is why it was proposed to maintain the passing of the judicial exam. Of course, that wasn't the only reason. Another reason is that the judicial examination also contributes to the qualification of other professions, such as the lawyerry or other affairs at the level of courts or prosecutors, such as a judicial associate or prosecutor's assistant. You yourself have seen from the bill that the number of members of the Academy is limited, that this number is determined by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors, on the basis of the need for how many people to serve as judges, i.e. Deputy Prosecutors. It was pointed out that the work of the Academy was not defined, which is not true. Because of the citizens of Serbia and of you, the MPs, I would like to point out Article 5, which says that the Academy itself is called "Activities of the Academy", organises and conducts an entrance exam for initial training, organises and conducts initial training, organises and conducts permanent training of judges and prosecutors, organises and conducts teaching of lecturers and mentors, organises and conducts professional training of judicial and prosecutorial staff, etc., not to read the whole article. Also, it was pointed out that the director was set up without a competition, which is not true. So, the director sets up on the basis of the competition, it's set up by the Management Board, but according to the competition, and it's regulated by Article 56. It's a bill of law. I would say that certain objections made here may be the result of insufficient consideration of the provisions regulated by the Judicial Academy. On this occasion, I just want to make it clear that the existing judges and deputy public prosecutors, as well as prosecutors, should not pass the entrance exam. So he refers to future people who will be judges and prosecutors. The Academy's headquarters is in Belgrade, but the urgency is that all training is not done in Belgrade, but probably according to centres where appeals courts are located, which are, besides Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. I am deeply convinced that the very statute of the Academy will make this precise. I wouldn't say that the establishment of the Judicial Academy was to derogate the judicial authority and put it under executive control. The comments concerning the composition of the Management Board may, perhaps, be referred to such a thing and we, as Government, have submitted a certain amendment that will carry out a different relationship of strength and, I am deeply convinced, remove such a remark. As regards the supervision of the legality of spending money, since this is a budgetary institution, it will also have control, as well as any other budgetary institution, whether through budgetary inspection and so on. We also have a State Auditor, who can also control how money is spent. Therefore, there is control in this regard. As far as the deadline is concerned, the deadline for starting work is December 1st, when the performer is appointed to prepare all the things necessary for the opening of the competition, to only train the functioning of the Academy, but its full mandate begins from the next October, when permanent training begins. I thank all the MPs who have submitted the amendments. The Department of Justice will consider them carefully. We have no problem with whether they come from the positional or opposition parties; anything that contributes to precision or better text will be accepted by the Justice Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28914	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. I am concluding a joint principled search on the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, on the completion of the Law on Judges, amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure and the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to Fight High-Technological Crime, as well as the Proposal for a Law on the Judicial Academy. We move to the 7th and 8th points of the agenda – Proposal for a PROPOSAL ON THE SECRET OF DATA AND PROPOSAL OF THE REFERENCE OF THE COURT OF PUBLICATION AND THE PROPOSAL OF THE REFERENCE OF THE REFERENCE OF THE WEIGHT AND OF THE LAW ON FREE APPLICATION OF INFORMATION FROM THE PUBLICATION (joint principled search) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the proposing representatives, Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, and Nebojja Bradic, Minister of Culture, called for members to attend Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Jovan Ćosic, Chief and Zlatko Petrovic, an independent adviser at the Justice Ministry. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so by now, to file a statement with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Đuro Peric – Parliament group PUPS, MP Sasa Dujovic – MEP SPS-JS, MP Vesna Pesic – LDP, MP Jovan Palalic – Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica, MP Marina Ragus – SRS parliamentary group. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance. Do the proposing representatives, Snezana Malovic, justice minister, and Nebojsa Bradic, culture minister, want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28915	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this debate, I would like to stress the importance of the draft law on the normative regulation of this area in the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the Republic of Serbia is one of the few countries in Europe in which the matter of the legal regime of classified information is not regulated in one law, in a comprehensive and precise way. The current situation, in which this matter is regulated in over 400, mainly sublegal acts, is not sustainable, and is both from the point of view of the protection of national security and from the corner of legal certainty, the protection and exercise of citizens' rights, as well as uninterrupted co-operation with other countries and other international organisations. The additional problem is also the fact that parallel-law solutions do not support the division of secrets to state, official or military, as is the case with us, and they view it as a relic of the past. Modern legislations by other countries prescribe that the sharing of classified information is not done in relation to the state authorities in which it was created, but also in relation to the content and procedure for determining the confidentiality of data storage. For these reasons, the international co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with other international entities has been significantly difficult in this area. The most important objective of the proposed law is to prescribe in one law criteria on which domestic and foreign data of interest to RS will be classified as a secret. In addition, it is also necessary to define a circle of authorised persons to regulate the confidentiality of data and in a uniform manner to prescribe rules for determining the degree of secrecy, as well as to accurately determine the deadlines and conditions of the termination of the confidentiality of data. The draft law regulates the way in which access to classified information is exercised. In order to prepare this legal text, the Justice Ministry has educated the Working Group made up of representatives of resolution ministries, security services and civil society. In the drafting of the text, earlier models of this law were used, as well as comparative and legal legal solutions, above all, from countries that are close to the Republic of Serbia at their own level of state, security and democratic development. The proposal for a law on the confidentiality of the data is divided into eight chapters, i.e. – basic provisions, determination of classified information, measures for the protection of classified information, access to classified information, procedure for granting approval, i.e. authorisation, supervision, criminal provisions and transitional and final provisions. The basic provisions determine the subject matter of the law and prescribe that this law regulates a single system of determining and protecting classified information which is of interest to national and public security, defence, internal and external affairs of the Republic of Serbia, access to and termination of such information, the authority's competence and supervision of law enforcement, responsibility for non-compliance, as well as other issues of importance for the confidentiality of data. It shall also determine what is not considered to be classified, as well as the right to access classified information, the purpose of collecting, storing and using classified information. The bill states that this law does not concern the protection of business and other secrets, but that the issue is governed by specific laws. In Chapter 2. The draft law shall regulate the determination of classified information, the types of information which may be specified by secret persons authorised to determine the confidentiality of data, the general provisions on the confidentiality procedure, the means of identifying classified information, the degree of secrecy and the content of classified information, the time limit of the duration of confidentiality, the manner of the confidentiality of data, the denunciation of the confidentiality of data and the change of degrees and the period of secrecy. The bill sets out four degrees of data secrecy - state secret, top secret, confidential and internal. It is prescribed that the criteria for determining the highest degree of secrecy, which are'state secret' and'super-confidential', determines the government, with previous opinions of the National Security Council. For the data of a lower level of secrecy, closer to the criteria is defined by the Government, on a proposal from the competent minister, i.e. the Head of State Authority. This chapter also sets legal deadlines after which the data expires to be secret. These deadlines are defined according to the degree of secrecy and range from two years, for the lowest degree of secrecy, up to 30 years – for a degree of secrecy such as'state secret'. In Chapter 3. The draft laws regulate measures to protect the confidentiality of data, the type of protection measures, the obligation of the controllers to carry out the safeguard measures, as well as the obligation to mark the loss, theft, destruction or unauthorised disclosure of classified information. In Chapter 4, the right to access classified information shall be governed. The bill provides for access to classified data without the approval and use of data from documents of any degree of secrecy, based on the function and in order to carry out tasks under their jurisdiction, have – the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. As regards the provisions of Articles 38 and 40. I would like to give an additional explanation for the draft laws governing access to classified information without a security check, i.e. restrictions on access rights. In the context of controversy in the professional public caused by the solutions set out in those members of the bill, which, above all, relate to a circle of persons who have the right to access classified information without security checks, a expert debate was held in the organisation of the Justice Ministry and an opinion was delivered by the Council of Europe. Analyzing the conclusions of the debate and expert opinion, the Ministry of Justice has made amendments to the text of those members of the bill, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted and delivered them to the National Assembly. The Government's amendment to Article 48. The draft law stipulates that the right to access classified information without security clearance, to carry out operations under its jurisdiction, shall be subject to the State authorities and the Heads of State who are elected by the National Assembly, the Judges of the Constitutional Court and the Judges. This right of access without security clearance can be restricted to accessing certain data marked by a top-level secrecy, in which case these persons are also obliged to pass the security clearance prescribed by law and these data can only be accessed in person. In addition, the amendment also introduces obligations for all persons with access to classified information to protect the confidentiality of data in every meaningful way. In view of the government's decision in the amendment to Article 38. The draft law, the Government proposed to the amendment to be a member of 40. The bill, which refers to the restriction of access, is deleted. I believe that such a solution is in line with all international standards, as well as that it is most comprehensive, both from the point of view of the protection of classified information and from the point of view of allowing access to classified information to certain state authorities and public functions holders in the exercise of their laws of prescribed jurisdiction. In chapter 5. The draft law sets out the conditions and procedures for obtaining access to classified information, both for domestic natural and legal persons and for foreign persons. The draft law regulates the security verification procedure, which is a condition for the applicant to receive authorisation for access to classified information. There are three types of security checks, which are determined according to the degree of secrecy of the data. For information marked with a degree of secrecy of 'internal' and 'confidential', a basic security check shall be carried out. For information marked with a degree of secrecy, a full security check is carried out, and for information marked with a degree of secrecy, a "state secret", a special security check. In addition, the bill sets out the purpose of security verification, the contents of the security questionnaire for all types of security checks, special security checks, the deadline for carrying out the security check, the granting of temporary approval before the completion of the security check and the delivery of the results report and the verification. Chapter 6 contains provisions relating to the supervision of the application of the Law. In this respect, the draft law required that an authority at national level be designated responsible for the implementation and control of the application of the law. The most comprehensive solution is for that body to be the National Security Office. This is in line with the comparative and legal experience and requirements for these tasks to be carried out by a state body which is, most often, a government service. In addition, I would like to point out that internal control is also required, for which the heads of public authorities are responsible, as well as that a special job for internal control in the MUP, the Ministry of Defence and the BIA can be designated. I would like to point out here that the government has submitted an amendment supplementing the bill by overseeing the implementation of this law by the Ministry of Justice. The ministry will resolve the administrative procedure by appeal of decisions by the Council office which are granted the right to access classified information. Also, the Department of Justice, through authorized officials, will conduct inspection supervision of the implementation of the measures of the processing of classified information, without prior notification of the authority holding the classified information. In Chapter 7, criminal provisions are prescribed, especially criminal acts, as well as violations of this law. In Chapter 8, the transitional and final provisions governing the extension of the powers of the National Security Council Office and setting deadlines for the adoption and harmonisation of sublegal acts, the review of the existing designations of secrecy, as well as the termination of the laws and regulations. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that, after the debate in principle and detail, the proposed law and amendment of the Government will be adopted, which will legally regulate the matter of confidentiality and prevent any abuse and arbitration in this very important area for the security of the country, the work of the state authorities and the exercise of citizens' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28916	Thank you, Madam Minister. First, let me inform you that, in accordance with Article 37(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group under points 7 and 8, of the agenda of the Second Session, which is otherwise under joint principled search, is MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The Minister, Mr Nebojsa Bradic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28917	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on free access to information of public importance, which has been applied since November 2004, has allowed citizens to access all information, except those marked as secrets, which are available by public authorities. The law undoubtedly contributed to further democratisation of relations in society, affirmation of the principle of public government, democracy of government and freedom of information. It also enabled more control of the work of the state administration and contributed to curbing corruption. The law has detailed access to documents owned by public authorities. The proposed amendments to the Law were made with a view to making it even easier for citizens to access information available by public authorities. For this reason, amendments and additions to the Law are specified and maximum deadlines for obtaining information of public importance and provide for the possibility that the applicant may, whenever possible, obtain information in the form in which he sought. The administrative dispute over the exercise of the right to free access to information of public importance is urgent. The execution of the trustee's solution, in case of need, shall be provided by the Government, which shall determine how it is executed even closer. In order to relieve the work of the National Assembly, it is proposed that consent be given to acts governing the work of the Trustee’s professional service by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly, not, as has been foreseen so far, by the National Assembly. The responsibility for non-compliance with the law has shifted from authorised person to responsible person in the public authority, and thus the Law has gained its meaning. Moreover, given that the right to free access to information of public importance, by substance, is the right to access documents owned by public authorities, in fact, the control of the work of the authorities is carried out through the exercise of this right. It is logical that the tasks of supervision of the application of the law are carried out by administrative inspection in the composition of the ministry responsible for the affairs of the administration, not the legal service of the Ministry of Information. We believe that these changes and additions will contribute to greater responsibility in the work of public authorities, bring citizens closer to and make available the work of state authorities and other public authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28918	Thank you. Do any of the rapporteurs of the Committee on Culture and Information want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Peric Đuro.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28919	Your Honor, Madam President, Your Honor, and Mr. Secretary with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer briefly to the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of information. First, I would like to point out that it is extremely important and useful that this law is finally passed. It's about time we did it. We, as a state, as far as secret information is concerned, and in general, in my opinion, we have so far been almost an open book to anyone who was particularly interested in something. Sometimes there's an impression that there's no secrets with us. The fact is that we are almost the only country in Europe that has not regulated the matter of the legal regime in a single law in a comprehensive, precise and thorough way. It is enough to point out that this matter has so far been regulated in over 400, mostly, sublegal acts. You can only imagine what it looks like in practice. This bill allows for the most important objective to be achieved in this area, which is to prescribe in one law criteria on the basis of which domestic and foreign data of interest for the Republic of Serbia will be defined as secrets, then, define powers, empowered persons to determine the confidentiality of information, to write in a uniform manner rules for determining the degree of secrecy, how to mark the degree of secrecy, and to specify precisely the deadlines and conditions of the termination of the information. It is particularly important to identify an authority which would be competent at national level to enforce and control the application of the law. It is proposed that it is most acceptable for the body to be the National Security Council Office, although the government can also appoint another state body for the job, which would serve the government. However, I think it's most comprehensive and economical to just be the National Security Council Office. The bill provides for what information can be identified as secret and said – a secret information can be determined from an interest in the Republic of Serbia whose detection of an unauthorized person would be a damage to the interests of the Republic of Serbia, which is more difficult than the interest in free access to information of public importance. Although it is taxed on what the data refers to, I think that when assessing the principality of the damage may need to be careful. It's often possible that so-called. indirect damages, which may in their summation, and individually, be greater than the basic damage. It should be pointed out that it is extremely important that it is particularly regulated that classified information which is classified as a secret is not considered to be a secret to cover up a criminal offence, overrule or abuse of official position. The proposal for a law sets out precisely the authorised persons who determine the confidentiality of the data, under the conditions and in the manner laid down in the law itself. One of the most important elements of classified information, according to this bill, is certainly the determination of the degree of secrecy. The highest degree of secrecy is the'state secret', in order to prevent irrevocably severe damage to the interests of the Republic of Serbia, then,'supervisory' – to prevent heavy damage, 'confidential' – to prevent damage, and 'intermediate' – to prevent damage to public authorities. As for the termination of the confidentiality of the data, deadlines that are normally applied in parallel law are foreseen, so that they are adequately measured here as well. In Article 26. The draft law states that the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Government may, by means of certain documents, recall the mark of secrecy, regardless of the degree of secrecy, if it is in the public interest, or because of the enforcement of mutual obligations. These are logical powers, given that they are the highest state bodies of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that personal changes in these organs won't affect the very act of recall. The third chapter of the draft law, from Articles 30 to 37, provides for measures to protect public data. There is no doubt that the strictest application, otherwise, is well-prepared protection measures, as general, as provided for in Article 32. The draft law, as well as specific ones, which the Government will determine by a special act, is one of the most important elements for the application of this law. We, by the way, are known as a society that, despite strict bans, in some cases even the responsible persons behave sloppyly about keeping and protecting classified information. These data are often found in the hands of individuals and institutions in which they should never be found. I don't mean those cases where it's deliberate and it's a serious crime. As regards the procedure for granting approval, i.e. a permit for access to certain classified information, I think that they are very precise and detailed in the fifth chapter from Article 49 to Article 85, and only the question, most importantly, is to be applied consistently in practice. Finally, when it comes to sanctions, criminal provisions relating to a criminal offence are appropriate and well-degreed in my opinion, and as far as fines are concerned for the criminal liability of the responsible person in the public authority, I think they are low. For example, Article 99(3) states that if a responsible person marks the classified information contained in the document with an inadequate degree of secrecy, it can cause serious consequences. There is also the application of a degree of secrecy of documents contrary to the provisions of Article 27, then, if it does not prescribe, organise and monitor the general and specific protection measures of these data, which means that access to them is possible. There are other cases – if secret information is provided to legal and physical persons contrary to the provisions of Article. 47. So, the wrong delivery of that data. All of this can cause far greater consequences than those who have the character of a crime. Therefore, I think the fine between 5,000 and 50,000 is quite low. Finally, to say that the PUPS Parliamentary Group, in voting day, will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28920	Thank you. National MP Ms. Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28921	This afternoon's presentation, and this sick, I hope that the H1N1 has not begun, my colleagues are also hoping that I will begin by congratulating all the priests today's glory, means that to all those who celebrate St. Friday I congratulate the glory. As far as this law is concerned, I haven't seen a more film-making process, putting it in a congregation procedure, with all the following promises, possible withdrawal of one law, such as the Privacy Act. When it comes to secrets, nothing is an accident, especially in Serbia. A good dramatist would make a whole drama out of all of this. In the manner of Duško Kovacevic, it would be something between "Balkan spy" and "The Marathons are running an honorary circle"; let's hope it's the last round. If we as citizens of Serbia weren't involved in this experiment, we could still smile. As in those ancient times of this Parliament and the stories of grandfather and grandson, this story, however, has a sad end. Grandpa, in the face of JBT, died, but his idea never. No wonder there was a slogan after Tito, except now it's not JBT, it's BT, so whoever understands will understand. After all, this BT also likes to wear, travel, paint, receive both Kurt and Murta, and Parliament would like to use as the most beautiful set. It's just that they're still waving that famous white hand out of the car, and the people are looking forward to it from the world tours. The degree of democracy and the protection of human rights is identical both at the time of JBT and at the time of BT. Since it's been passed the Information Act, it's no longer going to be written as much as it wants, but it's going to be approved by the Idoli. Turns out Baby was a little baby for Shaper, Krlet and Rakic. There is still still a need to introduce a reduction of TV channels, so that there is a First Program – your right to know everything about European Serbia, and whoever turns the Second Programme, to watch the Assembly, a security guard appears who has ordered him to return to the First Channel. In the last few months, four laws have been passed from the public sphere, showing the tendency to shut down the public, the Public Information Act, the Criminal Code, the Budget System Act, and, behold, now the data confidentiality law. To make the matter more interesting, what I've just said is the Commissioner's words for information of public importance and protection of data on the personality of Rodoljub Šabić. It's a particularly interesting part of the current psychiatry. Totalitarian or "democratic" power, as the people of a mile of fighting, played democracy, all to fulfill a pre-election promise – the EU that has no alternative, so it had to meet the basic condition for the countries of developed democracy, that we had the Trustee for information of public importance, and after the adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act, he also received the post of Commissioner for Personal Data Protection, a man who was supposed to be a member of the DS, Rodoljub Sabic. But if it's not a new game of "good" and "bad" cop, it looks like Shabic became unsuitable the moment he got involved in his own business. Who expected the Commissioner to seek access to information of public importance, and where does that right come from, when neither does the President of the Republic, as says the law and also the'resistant' Secretary of State Homen, have the right to gain insight into all classified information? "My brother-in-law gave it to me." That kind of fairy tale doesn't even tell Junior Minhausen anymore. Who is to blame Sabic for believing that he, as a Trustee, is an independent control institution, which he has appointed for most votes, as the highest legislative body! Which doesn't look good on Cvetkovic, so he doesn't get involved in his job, because right now in Serbia there's hardly a man who believes Mirko is making decisions and that the government is making significant decisions on any important state issue. To make things worse, there's a double-square in the image of Sasa Jankovic, Protector of the Citizens, so-called. The Ombudsman, who, like Sabic, lost his course and instead of following the ruler's pulse, persistently insists on citizens' needs. After all, it should have been clear to him where he belongs and what he should have done when his amendment to the Bill on the Protection of Personality Data was rejected in the Assembly. So, there are now the two of them, but not more like personal solutions called Rodoljub Sabic and Sasa Jankovic, but as two independent control institutions, which should look after the protection of the Constitution of guaranteed rights. Here again is the similarity of the BT government with JBT's authority. JBT said, "We don't have to stick to the law as a drunk float," and BT is developing the thesis in the following direction: "not even the Constitution". Coincidence? Not at all. This constitution guarantees the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state with the southern province of Kosovo and northern Vojvodina. We've already heard the big thoughts of our president about a possible partition of Kosovo, and in order for the Vojvodina to slip more easily, there must be little added to the information, secrecy and security of the atmosphere, in order for the Duke's statute to pass through the laziness. So, this constitution, as a major liquid of the state-run government of Vojislav Kostunica, the authority that was not only, will soon come again, gives jurisdiction to independent control institutions, such as the Citizens' Protector, to control and the work of secret services, because they are, by definition, restricting and suspending the Constitution of guaranteed citizens' rights. The protection of citizens cannot be controlled by the President of the Republic, the Government, as a collective body, but not by the ministries individually, by the Assembly, by courts, by the prosecution and by the Constitutional Court. The Office of the Protector of Citizens, the Ombudsman, has existed in Serbia since 27 July 2007, and has received around 2,500 formal complaints from citizens so far. A recent statement by the Citizens' Protector says: "The proposal for a law on classified information, which the Serbian government delivered to the Assembly, is taking away existing powers to the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for Information to access all the data needed to establish whether the state services work properly and legally." The statement recalls that the Ombudsman and the Commissioner were established by the Constitution and laws as incoherent state bodies and the Assembly of Names, by an absolute majority of the votes of the MPs, chose to control independently and independently how authorities respect the rights of citizens. It is unclear why Parliament should accept that the executive power in the future limits the organs that he himself has chosen to control, and that is precisely in things that parliament itself cannot control. But it is clear, thanks to numerous examples from the recent past and practices of our institutions, why some authority, official or official, would want to hide its work from another state body, which is obliged to keep what is a legal and legitimate secret itself, said Citizen Protector Sasa Jankovic. According to his assessment, the announced limit for the trustee and the Manchester is unprecedented, not only in countries with the centuries-old tradition of independent parliamentary control institutions, but also in countries of the region. "I am sure that the restriction required by the government is incompatible with international standards," Jankovic said, adding that "it lowers even such a large but still achieves the capacity of institutional protection of human rights in Serbia". It's not what Jankovic was, but the Citizens' Protector was in despair and funny, so during the debate on the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data, organised by the Civil War Relations and Civil Initiatives Centre, he said, "Of course, the Citizens' Protector can't have the right to learn the formula of secret war poison, but must have the right to know whether this poison may be tested in a way that threatens the health of citizens." So it's clear what the intention is, it's clear that these state bodies are limiting exactly what might be important to achieve their function. But to discover a trail of events in a drama called - the adoption of a law on the confidentiality of information. The beginning is excellent, as usual, there is always good intentions at first. Everyone agrees on one thing. This is one of the completely unregulated areas, and there is a need for the chaotic state to be settled, because there are currently about 400 acts that regulate the issue of data secrecy, and the very procedure of putting a code of secrecy completely unthinked. There have been a lot of abuses, especially when it comes to public procurement, because it was the easiest thing to do was to place a confidentiality mark, so that there was no law on public procurement. Mr. Homen explained that the area had not been arranged for 50 years, so the confidentiality mark was placed on various documents, without any control, based on various sublegal acts, which I said were more than 400. Of course, in principle – the European Union has no alternative, the final seal of the necessity of adopting this law is contained in the sentence – this law is one of the most important, and it also appears in the European Commission report, which recommends its adoption. Of course, we do not want to embarrass ourselves in front of Europe, but European standards mean that experts, not just so-called, are involved in the working group for draft laws. Security. In this case, the task force was composed of representatives of the security services, the MUP and the military. Nothing without the Shunatov. Due to conceptual disagreements, the task force has left the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights and the Human Rights Lawyers' Committee, YUKO. The Commissioner for Public Information and the Protector of Citizens were not even invited to participate in the writing of the law. There is also a lack of rights of public debate, as the debate in the public cannot be equated with the regulatory public debate initiated by the government, as a legislator. On July 23rd 2009, the government adopted this text of the bill, and on July 24th, it referred it to the assembly procedure, without public debate and in unchanged form, despite opposition from the professional public, on the one hand, and the proposals that the law would be withdrawn from the procedure and completed. First, in the media, in August, a possible withdrawal was announced, so it was removed from the agenda on August 31st and sent to work, so that it would finally turn out – the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born, and the law never changed in the congregation procedure. The game of security – experts finished with 1:0. What could experts possibly know about the law and like we have to stick to it like a drunk float? We got a bill after 50 years that's legally and technically below each level. At best, he can only create an illusion to regulate himself. The point of hypocrisy is that the opinion of the Council of Europe, whose principle was very high, was also sought, due to undivided criticism from the professional public. Not only is this opinion not only informed citizens, but it is not the Protector of citizens, nor is it the Trustee of information. Most euphemistically, on the question – what is the expert opinion of the Council of Europe, Mr "resilient" Homen said – the opinion of the Council of Europe was that everyone should be equally entitled to insight classified information. In other words, we want to go to Europe, but on their terms. The condition of number one is to retain "tytoism". So this government made the worst secret law in the region, first of all, limiting the Trustee for free access to information and protection of personal data and the Protector of citizens to have access to all information, without restrictions, since it belongs to them by the nature of the job and by the force of the law, and without consent and approval of so-called. A security guard. As regards comparative practices, the laws of the countries in the region do not contain such restrictions for the institutions of trustees and civil protectionists. Here is what the practice, i.e. the laws of the countries in the region, looks like: in Article 32. The Law on the Protection of Personal Data of Croatia, it is said – regardless of the degree of secrecy, means there are no restrictions; in Article 53 of the Slovenian Law, regardless of confidentiality or secrecy; in Article 22 of the BiH Law, state and official secrets will not constitute an obstacle; in Article 66. Montenegro – regardless of the degree of secrecy. As I have already said, the majority of experts advocated the withdrawal of the law from the assembly procedure and the creation of a new draft law, because this is how we devalue both the Constitution and our own institutions, above all, Parliament, and then the independent institutions of the Trustees and the Citizens' Protectors. Because of the public, it is important to say what were the key remarks of the experts. The key points of controversy, in the opinion of most participants in this debate, which I say is not public, but rather public debate, concerned the fact that some of the provisions of this law lower the institutional level of protection of human rights. Also, the proposed monitoring mechanism for the application of the law, in the form of a National Security Council, is not an adequate solution, because the National Security Council is not a state body, but is a government expert service, which should not exercise supervision. That is why several times exhibitors at these meetings and experts pointed out that this bill extends and strengthens the powers of the executive authority, at the expense of the legislative and judicial authorities, as well as the supervision of independent state institutions and civil society. The Data Securitisation Act introduces an authorisation for access to and use of classified information, exempting it from the law of a particular institution, such as the State Auditing Institution and the Anti-Corruption Agency, which, by law, have the power to access confidential data from their jurisdiction. This solution has drawn the attention of the professional public, as well as the request of the representatives of these institutions for inclusion in certain members of the law. Professor Milosavljevic, co-worker of the Civil-War Relations Centre and professor at the Union Law Faculty, believes this law prevents democratic civilian control of the security sector. This claim is supported by the European standards applicable in this area. He pointed out that, in parallel practice, parliament has access to classified information and plays the role of the control body when there are no other, specifically created bodies performing that function. Miroslav Hadzic, chairman of the Civil-military Relations Centre's Management Board, stressed that this law is a tendency for restoring the state-centric notion of security and that the law, consciously or unconsciously, concentrates the power in the hands of a small number of people, i.e. by law, executive power gets more powers than it should and than it should be in democratically regulated states. Alluding to previously passed laws, Miroslav Hadzic stressed that, in the area of security, documents of great importance are always brought without a prior organised public debate, unless it is being extorted by the efforts of civil society representatives. I already mentioned the Anti-Corruption Agency. On 31 August 2009, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia addressed objections to the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data and from the Anti-Corruption Agency. Among other things, this observation states – the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data contains certain disputed solutions, which violate the principle of the division of authorities and relations between state bodies of different branches of government, and in particular makes it difficult to carry out transactions in the jurisdiction of control anti-corruption bodies, educated as independent and independent state bodies. This applies first of all to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The provisions of Article 38 shall apply. The draft law makes it difficult for independent control bodies to function and exercise competence, since access to classified information is made possible with the approval of the competent authority. The Anti-Corruption Agency and the Public Procurement Administration, the State Audit Authority, are not covered at all by this provision, and, in practice, they are not given the possibility that, with the approval of the competent authority, they have access to the information marked as classified data. The specific difficulty of non-consistency is the solution to the restriction of access to information by control bodies, contained in the provisions of Article 40, the famous, disputed member of this proposal. Such an approach fully prevents the work and conduct of procedures in the responsibilities of control bodies which are educated in such a way as to be independent and independent state bodies. Among other things, such solutions are in direct contrast with the solution contained in the provisions of Article 25. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which establishes the obligation of the national authorities to deliver all documents and information necessary to carry out the tasks of the Agency at the request of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Delivery of data, documents and information is not subject to a degree of secrecy or any other classification. The need for mutual harmonisation of the law and consistency of the legal system requires a different solution in those provisions of this bill... (President: Time. I will now continue with the time of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28922	I'm just gonna ask you to take a break now, have all the heads of Parliament finish, so I'll give you my word. Mrs. Vesna Pesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28923	Dear representatives of the Ministry, respected fellow Members of Parliament, I think it is very good and very important that we have two laws on the agenda today, a proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data and amending and supplementing the Law on Access to Information, because these two laws are very important when it comes to respecting the Constitution, the rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution and also the rights to the implementation of these constitutional rights of citizens. So, first of all, that's why I find these two laws extremely important. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of information, the history of the adoption of this law does indeed have certain qualms. Let's say, we can remember that once upon a time someone mentioned it in the Assembly, I think a year and a half ago, that this law proposed, in some different form, a set of NGOs that accepted a number of citizens' signatures, but then the bill proposed by NGOs disappeared from the assembly procedure, so we look forward to getting that law back and showing up as a proposal from the government. When it comes to that, we also had small or slightly bigger misunderstandings, because in this same home, I don't know exactly when, I mean, a year ago, we passed the Personal Data Protection Act, when we had a very heated debate because it was Article 45. The trustee shall be deprived, or the limited right of insight into the identity data. The law itself made sense only if we had before us and this law that we are discussing today, because the Law on Secret Information and on the Protection of Personality Data, which we were then bringing, also, belongs to this matter, so it was necessary for these two laws to be passed at the same time, instead of bringing them in at different times. Why would I bring that up? Because it is true that in July of this year, the draft law we are discussing today, the secrecy of the data, and that this proposal, which was found in the assembly procedure, has caused a great storm in our public, that citizens' rights are severely violated, above all, by Article 40, which makes it impossible for the trustee to access the data, which violates constitutional rights, guaranteed by the Constitution, when it comes to accessing information and data protection. So this constitutional law, a member of this 40th law, which entered the assembly procedure in July, was violated. The government had not organised a public debate before the assembly procedure, which was required to do, because when it comes to such important laws, which are intruding into the area of human rights, it is necessary to conduct a relevant expert public debate. So, the law first entered the assembly procedure, and when the public got up, then the expert debate, which was also on the Justice Ministry's initiative and also on the NGO's initiative, which also upset him. It is also true that some who were representatives of the Working Group, for example, the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights, then YUKO, stepped out of this task force because they could not agree, first of all, with Article 40, and with some other members of this law. However, I must say that on that occasion, I was present at this expert public debate, which was held at the bank, the Ministry of Justice respected the very fundamental objections heard at the time and promised that the law, as it was sent to the assembly procedure, would be withdrawn and that the shortcomings, which were well explained, would be corrected. Of course, when we got this agenda, the law we got wasn't changed, it was the same one we discussed at that public debate. I must ask Ms. Malovic – are these amendments that she has explained now an integral part of the Government's proposal? If that is true, given the and the consultations you have made with the Council of Europe, then it must be noted that the main interferences and the main problems that have been related to this law have been removed, first of all, in Article 38, in Article 38, meaning that the issue of approval has been lifted, because we have been discussing whether there should be approval at all, so it is proposed to introduce, instead of approval, one term that would be certified, which would be something more correct than the issue of approval, especially when it comes to the Protector of Citizens and the Trustee. This has now been removed, because Article 38 has been uniquely regulated who has the right to access all classified information, practically, without security clearance. Of course, this security check has been introduced, when it comes to higher levels of secrecy – state secret and top secret, that it will be possible with previous security checks for these two degrees, in accordance with Article 54. So, no more of that approval, but this security check was introduced, by saying that in that first version of Article 38, the MPs could have had access, but now you've thrown out MPs, I don't know what reason; I can see they're gone now. It is taxing who has the right, but MPs don't have it. What's just been said, with a single solution, is that the auditor is involved, because we choose the State Auditing Institution, as well as all others elected by both the Trustee and the Citizens' Protector; they are now and can, without any security control, except in certain cases, have access to information, but the MPs have been expelled. It is that that rule is some kind of crowd, why isn't this one, why isn't he here, but the MPs have fallen out, while those who were just mentioned in my predecessor's speech are now uniquely inserted and have access without security clearance, except in exceptional cases, when it comes to "state secrets" or "truly confidential". I think it's very good that a member of the 40th was expelled, because both the Council of Europe and that expert debate were most concerned about that member 40. There it was possible even that a lower administrative authority, such as the authority itself, which defines that secret, or which keeps a secret, had the right to refuse to give authority, supervisory authority, information, which is unheard of in the legal theory. This was not really possible, and the Council of Europe also draws attention to the fact that this is completely unsustainable. Secondly, when I mentioned the previous personal data protection law, it was predicted, in Article 45, that the trustee's right to, say, appeal to a data subject could be seen, especially if the appeal is justified. He had no right. However, I can see that you have accepted amendments to Article 109, not only paragraphs 1 but also paragraphs 2 and 3, you are erasing the importance of that member where access to the Trustee is restricted when it comes to personal data. Thus, some major objections to the solutions that have indeed deviated from the legislation in force in Croatia, which is valid in Slovenia, which is valid in Montenegro, which would also separate Serbia from European standards and regional standards in this respect. We would still have the retention of some kind of police state, which would prevent the realisation of the constitutional rights of citizens to free access to information and data protection on citizens. I think that by erasing Article 40, if what you have suggested here is valid, and the main interferences and main objections to this law have been removed. In that sense, I would like to commend the Ministry of Justice for, at least at the last minute, delivering these amendments, because, I must say, I was very disappointed that we were deceived after that public debate by having it removed, so we got the law in the same form, when we held that public debate. It's done, so to speak, in front of this... Maybe some colleagues didn't see you deliver these amendments. Probably my colleague Jankovic didn't have it in her hands, someone prepared it before, and I, if I hadn't opened the envelope yesterday, wouldn't have seen these changes you delivered at the last minute. Although they were delivered at the last minute, I think they're welcome and it's good that it's done. It is certain that the amendments that we have submitted are not only about these major objections and the major problems I have been talking about in this law, that there are certain administrative procedures on which certain objections can be placed. Among other things, and Article 84, where you define how to keep records, but you may still be able to fix that, or you can answer that it's about this way of keeping records being arranged by sublegal acts. It may also be about the Constitution in Article 42, where everything relating to personality data is said to be governed by the law. I'd like you to consider that. It would be a shame if you didn't fix it, and by law, keeping records of data keeping, because we keep running into that problem. You've seen that the Constitutional Court, although it's not connected now, is just comparing, that is, that sometimes the Government and the Ministry are too often defined by regulations and sublaws by some matter that should be regulated by law. When it came to the dispute over sports national pensions, we saw that the Constitutional Court did not object to the existence of national pensions when it comes to major sports results, but that it cannot be passed by regulation, but by law. It's the same here. We face the same problems very often. When it comes to the protection, rehabilitation and education of disabled people, which I have also worked on, associations again complain that what was promised to sublegal acts will be defined, when it is not this public and when not everyone can hear it, sublegal acts are subsequently narrowing down those rights. I therefore draw your attention that you could also adopt this objection by the Council of Europe, when it comes to Article 84, where it is said that the way in which you keep records and data is going to be kept, these are members of the 80s and 81s, prescribed by the Government, and I think it would be good to prescribe this law. Think about it. Perhaps you can, you have time to submit as a government amendment and to arrange that, too. I think the government has made a major step by eradicating a very controversial member of the 40th, a member of the 38th groomed, and in article 109 very important, abolished the bans of that law and thus brought these two laws into line. Otherwise they should have gone as a set of laws, instead of going apart, as I've already said. When it comes to this second law, it is also extremely important for all these things that Minister Bradic mentioned when it comes to accessing information of public interest, democratisation, preventing corruption; these are laws that are of paramount importance. They've been applied for five years. They've given certain results. But I think it's a good thing this law has changed that your ministry is no longer in charge of supervision, because you didn't do that surveillance, you weren't equipped to do that surveillance at all. This member is fundamentally, since there really is now surveillance by the appeal procedure and this surveillance is starting to work, because before that, surveillance, practically, was not at all, since there was no such law on the classification of classified information, where every service, when we asked for certain information, could place a mark – confidential, top secret, state secret, military secret, anything from that old classification, and that completely arbitrarily, since there was no such law, would make it impossible for citizens to access information of public importance, thereby removing it from their doors, to arbitrarily determine what is a state secret, what is not a state secret. Now, combined with the law we're passing, it's also possible for this supervisory authority to come into fact. I think it's good and it's good that it's handed over to another ministry, not yours, because, as we can see, it didn't work, and without this law, it was pointless. Indeed, citizens were very often damaged, so the whole struggles, if you remember, were led around certain data, to be reached by citizens. Since Minister Markovic is not here, in whose jurisdiction it is, we have submitted one amendment and I ask you to adopt it. This is the last member, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. Article 17. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance postpones the application of the provisions on the exercise of supervision of the implementation of this law for six months. The LDP does not consider it necessary to postpone it, for several reasons. There's already been an administrative inspection. This law and these amendments and additions were proposed in April, six months ago. There's an administrative inspection. We don't see any reason to delay it now for six months. Citizens have been deprived of this surveillance for five years, not surveillance, and now you've been putting it off for six months without need. The administrative inspection exists, it was proposed six months ago and there is no reason why there is no possibility of a complaint now, that citizens should not be met and that this supervisory authority should not be established. Please consider our amendment and accept it, because this delay is not necessary. We now have the law of Article 13, and it may immediately begin to act upon its release in the Official Messenger, as scheduled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28924	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28925	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28926	Excuse me, Mr. Dujovic, first of all, the replica. Just sign in, Mrs. Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28927	Mrs. Pesic mentioned me, and I think I have the right to a replica, because she said she had something in her hands that I didn't, the corrected views of the government. You know how, as a People's MP, I'm preparing for the bill that lies ahead, and I wouldn't comment on this practice of ex post wit. There are some folk sayings, it's not very appropriate to quote them here, but this is something that's almost common. The government acts arrogantly, will not adopt objections to the professional public, will not return the draft law to completion, and then react by investing amendments with the draft law in the Assembly, of course, because of public pressure. When amendments enter the assembly procedure, the question arises again – whether representatives of the ruling coalition will vote for such amendments. Therefore, it is not the same whether the objections of the professional public were reacted by the law being returned to dorad, or by the law unalteringly entering the assembly procedure, and then by the government, all because the professional public heard it, or because she was moved to respect citizens' objections, made amendments that we have recently learned about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28928	Mr. Sasa Dujovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28929	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Proposal for a law on the secrecy of data and a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance which is on the agenda are legislative proposals which, in some ways, begin the introduction of order into this very delicate area of society's life in general, with reference to the rights of its citizens. For the most part, I will refer to the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of information. I'll go with Article 2. The bill, where the concepts of meaning of classified information are clearly defined. The following members of the proposal for this law shall limit the confidentiality of the data and define that all data concerning the criminal offence or abuse of official position cannot have a mark of the secrecy of the data. In Article 8. The draft law clearly lists the areas from which the data bearing the code of secrets can be determined. Specific cases have also been defined, the identification and designation of classified information, as well as the classification and degree of secrecy and the content of the data. In Article 15. The bill also defined the designation of foreign classified information. Articles 16, 17, 18 and 19. The proposal for a confidentiality law provides for time limits on the confidentiality of data, as well as deadlines for the termination of the confidentiality of certain data. In particular, I would point out the possibility of removing from certain documents a code of secrecy in the event of certain events which cease the reasons for the existence of confidentiality of information concerning those events. Chapter III of the draft law defines measures to protect classified information, Article 32 - general measures, and Article 33 - specific measures to protect the confidentiality of data. In Chapter IV, solutions for access to classified information have been proposed. Thus, in Article 37, without special approval, access to all data is made possible to the President of the Republic, the President of the Assembly and the Prime Minister. In Article 38, the right to grant without prior verification is made possible by a wider number of state officials, which we consider a good solution. Chapter V of the Proposal for a Law, from Articles 49 to 84, shall elaborate on the authorisation procedure, i.e. the authorisation for access to data bearing the classification of secrets, both physical and legal persons and also the foreign persons. The content of the request has been clarified, the mode of the security check, as well as the authority responsible for carrying out the security check. Article 85 defines the conduct of internal control over the implementation of this law. The paper is the opening of the Office of the Council, as a Government Service with legal personality, whose jurisdiction is certain technical affairs, defined by Article 88 of this proposal. That office will be managed by the Director appointed by the Government. Although the public is under the impression that this law is intruding into fundamental human rights, I am convinced that by adopting it, it begins to edit this highly sensitive legal matter. The amendments submitted to this bill will, I'm sure, contribute to its improvement. In the light of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, the real reason why this law should be completed after four years of application is explained. Certain earlier legal solutions have not been finalized, and the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on free access to information of public importance has resulted. The proposed changes and additions define the existing members more clearly. I'll give you an example. Instead of the title above article 16, which reads as ‘Decision on the Request’, a new concept is introduced: ‘Proceeding upon request’. These changes are quite a lot in this proposal, which, with more precise additions when it comes to deadlines, already the existing legal solution is greatly improved. Finally, it should be added that this bill allows the Commissioner for Information in a certain way to perform his work more precisely. The proposed solutions can always be the subject of criticism, only a question of critics' intentions is raised. On behalf of the SPS – JS Parliamentary Club, in the voting day, we will support the drafts of those laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28930	Thank you. Mr. Mico Rogovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28931	Thank you. We have before us a joint review of the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data and a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance. On behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, in this part of the presentation, I will present a higher accent on the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data. As my predecessors have said, part of them went in one direction or another, I must point out that even the minister was more correct, unlike some MPs of the ruling coalition, when she put out in her explanation a history and a painful developmental path of this data confidentiality law, than the adoption procedure, the introduction of the assembly procedure in late July, in early August, the removal from the assembly procedure and everything else, until these days. The Minister explained it correctly, but it was really a problem in lawmaking, so I'm going to discuss it in the part of today's debate. It was expected, after July, that this law would be withdrawn from the assembly procedure. It is really not correct, no matter what anyone thinks, that for a session scheduled five days before its start, you deliver 50 and some points of the agenda, by the way, until the unification of the points in the joint search, to deliver some new points of the agenda and, Madam Minister, along with all of this, to deliver the amendment that you have submitted at the beginning of the session. Why didn't you pass a law that would contain everything you've provided for your amendments? Why didn't the bill itself contain it? Do you think that in this pursuit of the adoption of many laws, we who must take care of everything that is public and to us, and we are an integral part of the Assembly, you see, we have time to follow it all? Like Mrs. Pesic said, if she hadn't opened the envelope, she wouldn't have known the government's amendments had come. It's incorrect, regardless of the correctness of your appearance in the explanation. Indeed, it is incorrect for these 250 people here who have been elected by the citizens, and I think the amendments you proposed at the very beginning of the debate should be there. As someone said, after a quality debate on the proposal of this law, we all expected that he would long wait to see the congregation procedure, regardless of the situation and the fact that this area, i.e. The state secret system regulates over 400 legal and sublegal acts since the former SFRY and the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro. It really was necessary for her to see the congregation procedure and that part of this matter, i.e. Part of this area is being adopted. I have to point out, unlike some previous speakers, that our country has more secrets, let's say, than the EU combined. It is known that only two information has been marked as a secret in Spain, only six in Slovenia, and in Serbia it is not possible to correctly count the information on which the state has placed the "secret" mark, and has yet graduated them with a certain degree of secrecy. All of this results from the fact that, because of the sea rules that regulate this area, there is a huge possibility of abuse, because, no matter what it does in Serbia, we do not know what the secret is, and that knowledge stems from the fact that the criminal act of giving away official or military secrets is. Thus, numerous information in the past has been given the status of secret solely for legal-formal reasons, due to the fact that certain degrees of secrecy have been placed on them. Since there is no system, the possibility of numerous abuses and corruption has been opened, and all because in Serbia some information was not in the scope of the profession, but unfortunately it was in the hands of politicians and authorities. So, for example, in Serbia's military, in JNA, each data was graduated by a certain degree of secret. We have a situation, say, that the correspondence between the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defense always goes under a certain degree of secrecy. Even in those ministries, menus are marked by a certain degree of secrecy. We've been a closed communist society, and this society has really been defending itself against domestic, internal, or foreign enemies, and since then we've been pulling the phenomenon of state secrets. It's normal for communist societies to keep everything a secret. Since a lot of people have worked in this area and continue to work in certain places, they have a habit of hiding everything in themselves. It's an inevitability which is a Serbian reality. I believe this government would fall apart as soon as all the secret files were opened, normally, because of the contents of that data. By adopting a law on the confidentiality of information, almost nothing will happen, although it will be adopted, because as I said in my previous address, we are passing a handful of laws. If we're going to carry them out and respect them, that's a question that's already questionable. In our system we continue to work on that old feudal principle – as the boss says, and the boss is, unfortunately, more and more. Under the mark of secret, Serbia keeps the government's Action Plan to join the EU. You can imagine! The salaries of public officials are then kept, except for the receipt of MPs, because we know which degree is at in the media and the public of the RS Assembly. They are kept from the public a variety of concessions from this country and therefore the work of state authorities, especially specific institutions in the area of security, is still, however much law-making, non-transparent. So far, the complete archive of all state services, documents over the age of 60, has been a secret, and during this period, most of that documentation, unfortunately, remains a secret. So we have a banal example that from a project financed by the government, to data related to the work of the state services from 1945 to 1968, one scientific institution could not come, all because of reasons and forbidden access, under the pretext that some data remains a secret. Even in connection with this law and earlier developments, the Commissioner for Public Information, Mr. Sabic, and Mr. Heroes, Mr. Jankovic, announced that they had made general criticism on the proposal for a data protection law, because some solutions had completely ignored the Constitution and introduced confusion into our legal system. It is exclusively about objections to restricting the right to access certain information, about this controversial Article 40, which you have tried to change with the amendment, and the automatic ability to deny the rights of those who need to control. Unbelievable, but true. It is a law that is neither legal-technically nor conceptually not at the level needed by the Republic of Serbia and as such can bring some new problems. We now have a situation that has become a practice for the Serbian government to change the laws by, before the debate on them itself, delivering its amendments with the draft law, as I said a little while ago. It is noticeable that such behaviour leaves the government with the possibility that all amendments for which it does not wish to enter the assembly procedure, in the draft law, should be incorporated into the law, the government itself proposes, because of the pressure of the professional public, the expertise of the Council of Europe and similar situations. After the above-mentioned pressures by the Commissioner for Information and the Protector of Citizens, the ones you chose here in the Assembly, what we should be talking about when these people's arguments are not heard enough. Following pressure from the entire professional public in this area, the Justice Ministry has asked for an additional opinion, further expertise from the Council of Europe on the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data. For a wonderful miracle, not waiting for the response of the Council of Europe expert team, you immediately showed your willingness to accept the criticisms brought out by the Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector in public. I use the opportunity to remind Mr. Bradic that when you enter the Internet and search the Information Act, the word - North Korean - appears. Perhaps Mr. Bradic knows that this law, unfortunately, is used for such a law in Serbia, and you can see for yourself, entering various sites and comments, that the law passed in the Assembly not so long ago, the Information Act, in the Serbian public, is called the North Korean Law in Europe. After such a law and criticisms that have been addressed and are still going on at the expense of it, this is how the history of the draft law on the secrecy of data is going. In Serbia, nothing is surprising, nor is the government's behaviour. There is a very large number of laws here that have either failed to go through a public debate or have been partially passed, mostly on the political circles of certain parties, or there was a situation the other day that we did not have the opinion of the Legislative Committee, to begin the debate on a certain set of laws. It happened, as was the case with the previous joint search on the five items of the agenda, that, after a certain period of time, very short, the adoption and adoption of certain laws, especially from your area, Madam Ministers, they find amendments and additions to those laws, and as a second point of this joint principled search, are also amendments and additions not so long ago adopted Law on free access to information of public importance. In Serbia, in Parliament, is the only success playing numbers, in terms of the large number of laws passed? We have to admit, we've brought a really large number in the last six months. Do you think it's the only way to join the EU as quickly as possible? I agree with the fact that these laws are necessary, but the way they are adopted, putting into the process and the fate of these laws, which cannot experience implementation in reality, or a very small number, do you think that this is a recommendation for the EU, that the sooner we enter the EU, and that no moment can we look back on the existence of citizens, who, from moment to day, is increasingly devastating? In this case, as counterpart Jankovic said, it will be the story as well as with the Information Act – it was shaking worse, a mouse was born, or – it was talked about, but we have a situation that you often come to the Assembly, so unfortunately we will not have enough time for such things, some laws later on, regarding this data confidentiality law. It is not only disputed in this law that the provisions cited by the Trustee and the Protector, which concern only the restriction of their right of access to classified information, must also be noted and certain errors in this law. It is a situation that there is no control, i.e. to control certain people themselves, or through their professional services, one professional service. That is indeed unacceptable. Then, the possibility of almost everything being declared a secret, which this law continues to leave, as was with some laws from the former SFRY. Then, the right to hire one security guard in each authority of the government – this comes from this law. Employees in the government's professional service to deal with law enforcement will have the possibility of higher salaries by 20% than other civil servants. Well done! Also, this service does not have any inspection powers, without which you cannot have any control or quality control over the implementation of the confidentiality law. If you mark some information as a secret without explanation, or if it is marked as a secret document that clearly does not refer to protected information, given previously stated, it will indeed happen that authorised persons, i.e. Security guards risk the symbolic penalties provided for by this law – from 5,000 to 50,000 dinars, and this solves all the problems of criminal provisions. I believe that there is no country in the world where someone has thought of jeopardizing the fundamental legal principles, and in this case, in the previous period, it was the situation with this law, and all because of the control of the security structures and the ability to control the controlled powers of the controllers; I am talking about the disputed Article 41 and the provisions of Article 40 of this Law. Is it necessary for each law to help foreign expert teams to recognise the unsustainability of such solutions, such as with the first proposal of this law, which individual domestic experts and law makers represent as European, and are these European laws and European solutions when they have to go to European expertise? You know the answer yourself, did you say that in the opening statement? The potential of independent institutions, various professional associations, including us from the opposition, is really so great that it can contribute to improving certain proposals, or draft laws, and you and other ministers need to take care of this important legislation. Finally, the matter of the secrecy of the data was needed to be arranged as in all other countries. What happened to us? First, some laws were passed. How did other countries handle it? First, it was necessary to pass a law on the confidentiality of information that would prescribe what information is a secret and what is the degree of secrecy. It was then necessary to adopt a law on the classification of information, establishing criteria and measures for the protection of classified information and how certain degrees of secrecy should be applied. Finally, a law on accessibility, i.e. free access to information of public importance, should be passed, which would regulate who, under what conditions and procedures may be owned, and which type of information, including information graduated from one of the different degrees of secrecy. We're on the other side of the line. First, the last law was passed, which created confusion, since it was not known what information is of public importance that can be made available to interested entities under the prescribed procedure, which information is one of the degrees of secrecy and cannot be made available to the public without the prescribed procedure. Due to this approach and emerging problems, the amendments and amendments to the Law on free access to information of public importance are now under procedure, and I fear that after the adoption, adoption of this law, a more firm and built-up presidential system will be established in Serbia, and this is not foreseen by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28932	The word is from Ambassador Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28933	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we have before us an extremely important law, which has been discussed in public, but also conflicting opinions have been heard. I think that in today's discussion, about the spirit of this law, one of the colleagues best said – we have read books to this law, but now, when this law is passed, we will certainly not be read books. Indeed, when it comes to this law, the discipline, when it comes to the availability of information to citizens, takes much more form than before. Certainly, this law should create a kind of balance between three interests – one interest is national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity and data concerning national security; another interest is, in general, the interest of human rights, and the third interest is the interest of what the public needs to know, i.e. the needs of citizens to know certain information. When you look at the structure of this law, when you look at the proposals, the solutions, none of these three interests are satisfied, absolutely none. Then the key question – what do we get with this bill, what solutions, when it comes to data protection that are of interest to the Republic of Serbia, but also to protecting human rights and what the public needs to know? There is no doubt that what is most important at this time, when it comes to the subject that defines this law, is data concerning national security, sovereignty, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, which are most at risk now. We had a debate about the National Security Strategy in the previous period. We have seen the challenges, which are risks and threats to national security, and we have all agreed here, regardless of the great differences in discussion, that the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia is the value that is most at stake at this time, especially in the area of the KIM, at which at this moment the Government of the Republic of Serbia is leading a policy which, certainly, contributes to the further threat to national security and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. I'll give you one example. Yesterday, a very clear and plastic Swedish ambassador told Serbian citizens how he sees Serbia's relations and what he says is "false Kosovo states", as Serbia sees its way into the EU and puts Serbia on the white Schengen list. See this, what the DSS said many times before, that Serbia would be forced to establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo and that customs and borders between Kosovo and Serbia would be strengthened. Yesterday, an uncontested and unequivocal Swedish ambassador said. When it comes to these data, the question arises – what does this law do? I will try to look into this law with several aspects – the position of the organ, i.e. Authorised persons who have the authority to establish the confidentiality of data; the position of state authorities, their mutual position, the primary relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia and its National Security Council; the position of foreign data, rights and opportunities to grant access to individual data, and the position and status of the office itself formed here. There are many contradictions and many problems arise from the norms that define these relationships. It is truly amazing, and it will bring complete confusion and everything in Serbia will become a secret – as defined by the public authority's term. Under this law, local self-government will be able to mark certain data with a secret. That's amazing -- that mayors, individual services, will be able to deal with data that are of interest to the state security of the Republic of Serbia. Here, when you read: "The public authority's authority is a state body of territorial autonomy of the local self-government unit, an organisation that occasionally exercises public authority, as well as a legal person established by a state body... "and so on"... and which he treats with secret information, which he creates, obtains, preserves, benefits and exchanges." This will also be done by local self-government authorities, especially as it has been defined that persons are authorised to mark the confidentiality of information, including public authorities' managers, so mayors. In practice, one of the same information that they come up with in different municipalities may be marked by different degrees of secrecy. The question arises, why would some municipalities be dealing with data concerning national security in the first place? This kind of confusion is hard for anyone to defend here, not even the government's representatives. What concerns the very government of the Republic of Serbia and its position in this law is the fact that, on the one hand, this confusion, the government has extended its powers beyond this law because they have given it the right to lay down criteria on how the level of secrecy will be determined, and even for the National Assembly, by means of a sublegal act, for the President of the Republic, for public authorities, to prescribe the procedure, even though it is governed by this law, and at the same time very skillfully, through the position of the Council's Office and the role of the National Security Council, which the President of the Republic manages, is taking part of jurisdiction. It is evident that the key role in the control of all data is, in fact, the President of the Republic and the people around it, more specifically, what was once the National Security Council, all data and all possibilities of influence on other authorised persons who can mark certain data with a secret. The very important question is also the position in this law of foreign data, which came from other countries, and the exchange of data between our country and foreign states. You have amazing things here, that a country, a foreign country, has marked a certain degree of secrecy with itself, the Republic of Serbia must also mark the same degree of secrecy, although this does not have to be understood, given that the Republic of Serbia and that foreign state are in a contractual relationship and that the security risk is not the same in that country as in the Republic of Serbia. Second, when the country delivers this information to the Republic of Serbia, but in some contractual relationship to follow their security risk on issues related to some classified information and with us, it is absolutely unacceptable. Not to mention that Article 97 provides for a way to exchange data with foreign countries, regardless of whether the Republic of Serbia has concluded an international agreement with foreign countries. Article 97 says this: 'In the extreme political, economic or defence-security circumstances of the Republic of Serbia and, if necessary, in order to protect the interests of Article 8(2) of this law, at the request of the public authority, the Council Office shall exchange classified information with the foreign state. ''Who estimates what these unfavourable political, economic and defence-security circumstances are? Who's going to judge that? Is that the mayor? These are incredible confusions that can lead to a direct threat to the national security of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, the provision of data, permits, approvals to foreign citizens, on the basis of the fact that it has some kind of certificate, whose definition is not defined in this law, can also jeopardise the security of the Republic of Serbia, especially by opening up a space of data exchange with foreign countries, although these international contracts are not confirmed in the National Assembly. We insist it's confirmed international contracts. So now, while a major threat to national security is the presence of EULEX in Kosovo, you can, under this law, exchange information with an institution that threatens the national security of the Republic of Serbia, as well as with the NATO Pact, although the unilateral relationship that the Government of Serbia has established with those institutions has never been before the National Assembly. Their operation threatens national security, and we deliver data. These are the questions this law treats. When it comes to dealing with independent institutions, as the public information commissioner here today has been told, there is only additional confusion. Although it is a good solution that the amendment deletes Article 40, issues of relations with the Commissioner for Public Information remain, as defined by Article 40. 8 and 25. In Article 8, which defines the concept of classified information, it is said that it is an interest that is more difficult than the interest of free access to information of public importance. It's a great discretionary right of state authorities and it can be an abuse, because some data the public has an interest in knowing. What information will be such that its publication is of greater damage than to be classified, determines the state authority, but when you mark it so, you are in a situation that, in the process of possible recalling the confidentiality of the information, under the procedural law of the Trustee, on the basis of the complaint made, this information can be recalled by the trustee himself and made available to the public. I think you've brought some more confusion in here and you need to discuss it. When it comes to the possibility of approval to access certain data, you have a series of provisions that can penetrate human rights directly. First, a security questionnaire. You're asking a person who wants information to tell you how he's working with foreign services. That's what you wrote in the law, that the person said – yes, I cooperate with that and that foreign service. Indeed, it seems naive. That's what you put in the questionnaire. Then, when a security check passes and a person is given the opportunity to use certain data, you say – it can happen, after a while, that there has been a change in certain circumstances, and then the consent given to use the data is recalled. How can that be determined? Only if you're permanently following that face all the time and finding that something's changed. So, just by tracking, you can't find out otherwise about a change of circumstances. You here, in fact, for every person who's passed a security check, you're doing parallel surveillance, parallel checks, so that eventually something doesn't change, and it comes into a situation to call off that data. So, a very serious possibility and a risk of getting caught up in human rights and, in general, the possibility of accessing information that is of interest to the public. When it comes to this security check, you have not defined and restricted the possibility of using data from security checks exclusively in this area of the possibility of using certain classified information. Who guarantees that the Office of the Council, which receives all this information, on which the most difficult role and influence will probably be given by executive authority, and the data will not be used for other matters, and not just for the purpose of obtaining some secret information for that person? Once you collect all the living data of a particular person, no one prevents you from using this law for a variety of other things. It was therefore important to make it very precise and clear, under the threat of criminal responsibility, that the data supplied through security checks can only be used in this situation to obtain the data that the person is looking for. This is very important, given that all reports, whether made by the Ministry of the Interior, or the Security and Information Agency, will eventually be poured into the Council Office. It will be a sea of data on various people and on various legal persons. How can such data be protected from being misused in other processes and in other cases? You don't predict it by this law and it's a great danger. When you look at all aspects of these relationships, you can see that there is a series of contradictions and large discretionary rights of authorized persons that these data can be used outside of the purposes defined in the law. Although the focus of the public was solely on the rights of the Commissioner for Public Information and the Citizens' Protector when it comes to Article 40, I think a number of other bad solutions in this law have been missed in this public debate, which can seriously violate human rights. In that sense, the right colleague who said that only after this law would that freedom, that open book, slowly close a series of data to collect and concentrate in one place. When it comes to the office you form, today I am in the debate, Mrs Malovic, said that the great contradiction that the government has entered is. You're forming a Judicial Academy, and at the same time you're firing people. So I guess you should be hiring at the Justice Academy. Now you form the office, you have to hire new people. No matter what he says, the National Security Council Office will be, in fact, someone who will take over the job, and you'll have to hire other people for such a big job, because this is a serious job and jurisdiction that you gave to the Council Office. A major impact the National Security Council will have when the office director is appointed, without whose consent the director will not be able to be appointed, says the decision-making centre on the issue of using data is being moved outside the government. The status of the office itself is amazing. So this office has a legal personality. The question is, can this office ever exercise jurisdiction when it comes to administrative proceedings under the State Administration Act? It's a big question and you should have done a good job of consulting the State Administration Act and the Government Act. It is certain that, in addition to the ministries, the authorities of the state administration, this office that is formed in this way, which has a legal personality, can hardly be solved in administrative matters. It was important that it was well evaluated and legally justified, because its status remains this way to hang and the question is whether it will be able to exercise these powers; on the side of whether it should exist and whether it should exist in this way and whether one body that collects the data should be conceived. In the end, you bring in total chaos when it comes to authorized persons to determine secrecy, local self-government, autonomous provinces, who not all, some organizations, local communities. On the one hand, when it comes to regulating the criteria and, in general, the position of the process of determining the secrecy of data, you extend the government's competences, on the other hand, when it comes to managing it, you reduce its rights and transfer it to the National Security Council Office, where the government's influence is minor, we all know that. Communication with foreign states and foreign individuals receiving data is catastrophic. There's an open book. On the other hand, when it comes to the position of the Commissioner for Public Information, although this amendment has been improved several times, it remains confused and has no opportunity to perform its role under the law and, above all, security checks. It's the way you've achieved the collection and use of data. Post-checks only say no one in Serbia will be safe and will not be able to know what personal data is done when they come to this Council office. For these reasons, we have submitted a large number of amendments. Anyway, this law is so bad it should be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28934	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28935	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this is a subject that deserves the attention of all relevant institutions, of course, and of all citizens of the Serbian state and of the entire international community, and especially of all MPs of this Parliament, on one condition, that the institutions of these countries are functioning and that the citizens of Serbia are not watching. If there were indeed something in this country that was followed by democratic traditions and democratic fluids to respect the rules, to respect procedures, then we would have a quality, qualified debate, both in Parliament, but, firstly, in a qualified part of the public. What is startling is the manner of the executive authority to amend its draft laws, by not considering it appropriate for the representatives of the people to notify in advance of certain amendments and additions to the bill. So, the rhetorical question is -- how do you expect MPs here to ask important and relevant questions, to which they should receive appropriate answers, all in order to improve the lives of Serbian citizens? If it is up to all of us that Serbia should not have an alternative and what is imposed as a terrible pressure by the EU in terms of meeting certain standards, then I must, ladies and gentlemen of the Executive Authority, tell you that you have deceived those people who voted for you and who voted in favour of the strategy that the EU has no alternative. You not only don't have the strength to follow the standards set before you, you don't have institutions that can implement it in a way that all these draft laws are meaningful and that this parliament gets in its strength, strength, and in its own sense. I would really like to hear Mrs Malovic, and Mr Bradic, very likely, and Mrs Comic, just when it comes to the procedure – what would you say, in order to describe the situation, which would be a differential diagnosis of democratic society in Serbia? We don't have a public debate, we don't have a voice of Serbian science, because Serbian science, obviously, you close, we don't have, therefore, a question of professions in concrete cases; you only have MPs who, opening up some envelopes, hear what you've prepared a few hours before the session. So, in order for this issue not only to be rhetorical, I ask you -- what is the meaning of Parliament, and what is the meaning of our overall work, if we cannot get into the lobby of serious social criticism through public debate, assuming that we all have the same goal, to improve the lives of Serbian citizens? He's decorated, decorated with every attempt we make, first, to raise certain questions, then to follow the letter of the Constitution. You will allow, Mrs. Malovic, you are a representative of the Ministry of Justice, I appreciate what you will most likely say, for me, the Constitution is the only framework that should be the fastest field within which we should all move. Right? I must tell you that you have put this constitution aside, and in the context of the proposed agenda, as Parliament, we do not have the opportunity to know what we should know and what would affect our debate. Among other things, it's been a few months since asking one question to an executive, assuming we get an answer, and most often we don't get one. It's the same story with the birth of the bill itself. We're completely turned aside. We don't have influence, we don't have power, we don't have information, we don't have the ability to rightly improve the lives of citizens. Let me do this another way. What is the objective of the Serbian government – that Europe has no alternative and meets EU standards, and you don't care about Serbian citizens?- I'm sorry. I expect from representatives of the democratic government and those who are very often involved in public debates on the topic of democracy and the development of democratic society in Serbia to respond to what I have said so far, because, indeed, in the conversation with other colleagues, I often feel completely pointless. According to some of my previous experiences and knowledge, the institutions serve, the whole system serves as a single man in that country to live a life of worthy men. Give me an example of this man today in Serbia who has full insight into what the government is doing, who can affect his everyday life, who has the protection of institutions and who is at least at least satisfied, or who can meet his existential needs. Please, just give me one name and one last name. Let me get back to the beginning. I apologize if this introduction was a little bit more extensive, but you'll allow, this has become a pattern and I know that the people who are at that table are trying, like all of us, to force executive power, to watch out for even more senselessness now, to do their job the way they should, that every legal proposal has its own normal life. Is it too much to ask that we get these reports from the Council of Europe, that we get certain information based on which we can discuss in Parliament, because this is the only place where we all meet, and the opposition and government, the only place where we should have a good, quality debate to offer solutions to those who still follow us over the TV screen and try to feed their family, try to think about whether there is a future. Can we offer the future to the citizens of Serbia? It's a terrible degree of responsibility. If you're not ready to answer that, say it out loud. This doesn't make any sense anymore. Just to remind you, we also had a completely pointless situation with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Information Act. It was a situation that I suppose the democratic world does not know, the way it took place, that ultimately the SRS amendment would save power from shame, which is truly unheard of for a democratic society, for the forces that are signatories of the strategy that Europe has no alternative, which should further mean – EU standards and criteria, of all those who promote democratic values, so that they are fluentantantly and daily trampled. This is indeed the time to ask the question – until when? Just tell me what time interval do you think you're derogating the highest body in a political system, such as Parliament? What are we to you? Apparently, some work, some minefield where you'll be trading whether some law or some personnel solution will pass. What's all this for? Come on, nice, let's close up all this stuff that's in the rest of the institution and let's say -- this is the autocracy of a few people who have enough money to create life in Serbia. That's the point. Obviously, someone is playing very well with all of us, by conducting terrible campaigns against Parliament and by not being able to do what the people, who voted us, are expecting us, especially that we cannot open up certain debates that are very important. I am now in doubt whether to vary at all on the subject I set at the beginning, or to tell the citizens of Serbia – don't go to the elections anymore, this is a farce. You are looking at Parliament that has legalized the most difficult electoral theft in Serbia's recent political history, which represents the electoral will of some tycoons on the side rather than the electoral will of the May elections. And no one. Everything in Serbia has lost its meaning. In Serbia, when a citizen wants to, when people in Serbia want to protect themselves, they have to pay for it, or he has to know a godfather, a friend, or have a brother. How do the interests of citizens in Serbia, in Serbia, where the Constitution cannot be implemented on 15% of the territory, which has been excluded from our power, to make its first state, Bondsteel, in Serbia, where the minister of justice threatens from prison? That's terrible. If they are true in the media that Sreten Jocic has referred you to such threats, then we all need to think carefully about what kind of society and state we live in. If not, because we didn't hear what sources they said Joca Amsterdam threatened the Serbian minister of justice, then someone did the Information Act. These are just some pictures that should reflect complete nonsense in the state of Serbia. Do you know where we all fell? We fell on that test where none of us can give an answer to a man who lost his job. What will he live on? Because nothing works in the state of Serbia. That's why all of this looks like what it looks like, because we're a colony. Because we tried to run this topic when Mr. Bradic tried to listen, not to respond, because the answer knows well, and he can't say it – who is really ruling the state of Serbia, who is making political decisions in the state of Serbia? We then quoted a testimony from Baby Popovic, that certain Pecons, a controversial businessman, had a large number of MPs on their payroll. This should be so significant for every serious state to launch an investigation at the same time. When Ratko Knezevic mentioned the meeting in "Rica" in order to take over media space, then the state of Serbia had to take it very seriously, because Mr. Knezevic brought it directly to the killing of Pukanic, and thus told us who actually rules the state of Serbia, who are those who finance to make such laws, to make certain political decisions, to end electoral will, to create or shut down certain political parties. If you follow the press and write the press in Croatia, the situation around the tobacco mafia is complicated. It seems to us that very quickly many significant names will also get a brand-new light on political, police or judicial careers here in the state of Serbia. We are here, as the SRS Parliamentary Club, on behalf of you said we will make available information of public importance to the citizens of Serbia. How? Through this institution. By going through this institution, we're going to start doing what you're supposed to do, we're going to open a serious public debate. Then the citizens of Serbia, especially the academic population, will finally get an answer to the question – why the national library has not worked for three years and who is responsible for this because Mr. Bradic will not answer that question. Don't be surprised when tens of thousands of signatures come to some people, because you don't have the strength to do it, leave your position, and answer for what they didn't do, or are completely misdirected instructions. Then the citizens of Serbia will be able to hear and who has the imagination to destroy, say, Vinci. Today, in an exclusive interview with the Witness weekly, a professor from Berkeley gave a very interesting interview. The SRS will, with a trail of this interview, because the executive authority obviously does not care, except as a potential threat to those who are signatories of this interview, to expose the background of "send a century" and how it is possible that the Ministry of Science and Technology has made such an oversight, or someone with the intention of deciding, in the interest of large multinational companies, firstly, to endanger the life and security of Serbian citizens, secondly, to damage Serbia for a very good job. So, when it comes to a woman who is president of the American Nuclear College Association, Professor of the University of Berkeley, about the systematic destruction of "Vince", do you think there is room for institutions in Serbia to remain silent? That's just one example. Another example, which I suppose you will be interested in, and this is an introduction to what we will deal with during the time foreseen for the SRS Parliamentary Group, is the news that has not shocked us, but also a detailed and thorough fear of the image of the Serbian society. It is a UN survey on drug routes from Afghanistan, which showed that the Balkans is one of the main transit routes, but that a number of illegal drug users in the region have also been recorded. A report on the increase in the number of addicts, the strengthening of criminal organisations, the financing of rebel armed groups in the Balkans, said that in the routes of heroin smuggling, a significant place is being taken by Balkan countries, and the UN estimates that a huge amount of heroin arriving in Europe is coming right across the Balkans. One of the authors of the report said the Balkan countries' police should strengthen their positions to be able to confiscate larger quantities of smuggled heroin. It is said that 90 tonnes of heroin has reached Western Europe through the Balkans. Organized crime groups could not smuggle that much drug, this is the most significant part of this UN report, that they do not have police or other state services. In the Balkans, as in other regions, there is a problem of corruption. Most of the heroin in Turkey continues to be smuggled into the EU by road traffic, which means it crosses all borders, according to a UN report. From Bulgaria and Greece lead two large channels of smuggling, one section goes through Albania, to Italy and Switzerland, the other goes through Serbia and Romania, towards Austria and further to the Netherlands and Great Britain. He also added that police from Balkan countries seize a very small part of heroin that crosses their borders and then continues to travel to other world states. This is a very important part of the official report, that is, the UN's research on drug routes, on today. We will also add to this topic some of our knowledge, for example, about the channels for illegal arms smuggling across the Balkans, and then perhaps ask the question – why did the military delegation of the Russian Federation not come during the visit of Medvedev? We may find an answer to what is, in fact, the ultimate problem that could be the bomb for this part of the region. Why does the SRS do that? Because it is our modus operandi and because in the state of Serbia there is no one to do it, unfortunately. During all these months and years, we have witnessed a special war between the Commissioner, Mr Sabic, and certain institutions, to finally come to an answer to questions that were very important for the daily life of Serbian citizens. Given that I am running out of time as an authorised representative, to say that in the coming days we are going to start very serious topics, to come up with concrete answers, all in order to improve the lives of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-27-0.u28936	Thank you. No more authorised representatives. I thought maybe we could finish a few minutes early and pick up tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you for your cooperation.
