ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I believe that in that turmoil and crowd that existed on Tuesday, many of you have not heard the questions I asked, I suppose the prime minister did not want to hear them, and probably with the great agreement of all the media that I mentioned working with the Agency of Councilors of the President of Serbia, or Mr. Srdjan Saper's agency. I asked Prime Minister Cvetkovic, I asked him to give us an answer in two days at the latest – what is the political, commercial and marketable, any reason why state companies, companies whose founder is Republika Srpska, are advertised in a list that has a miserable circulation? What's the interest in a monopolies such as "Luthium of Serbia" being advertised in the same list, in the list of "Justice"? Is it because a pro-European government, which a pro-European policy needs to be advertised in newspapers that are completely contrary to the government's policy and in which direction does this country go? I'd like to hear, too, from Mr. Cvetkovic, did he, meanwhile, speak to the director of Telecom, Mr. Radyuk? Did he ask him if Mr. Radyuko spoke to his shareholders, did he talk to the Management Board when he made the decision to advertise through Srdjan Shaper's company in the "Justice" list? In the crisis we live in, where we're all trying to save, government-controlled state-owned enterprises and under the control of the agency run by Srdjan Shaper are advertised in one such list, whose controller is Seselj. He was Seselj's megaphone for 18 years, so he gave it up very easily. What's that interest in public enterprises? What's that interest in citizens? What is this interest in public enterprises being advertised in a daily list that is regulated by a man who, at a time of emergency, edited newspapers that are the only ones banned in Serbia? Today, when a code of secrecy is to be removed from the "Kovacevic" case, I hope there will be no new code of secrecy placed on this case. I would really ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic to give us the shortest time in this building or through an official statement to answer, so that he does not try again through those media that I have not said a word to, and apparently under the control of Srdjan Saper's agency, we find out the answers. Finally, I would like to say that LDP MPs will no longer be in this room today, for the simple reason that the disorganization and inability of the ruling majority to organise work in this House does not allow us to sit in this room. The places for LDP are not free and no one but the ruling majority is to blame that we can't work for three days. In the past few months, we've been listening to all kinds of excuses not to work for a group of MPs. I think it's clear to everyone now that we are not working because of the inability of the ruling majority, who is unable to ensure the functioning of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16810	The word has been given by MP Dragan Shormaz, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Anybody else answer for a word? After that, MP Marina Ragush, SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to protest on behalf of the DSS Group for these few, I would say, unworkable days that we had in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the reason is that the ruling majority is incompetent. We have spoken on many occasions that because of the incompetence and disorganization of the ruling majority, this congregation does not work properly. Yesterday we protested, we said that you obviously didn't save everything we needed to do here in conditions where it's normal for the National Assembly to work and work and today it's proof, here, we lost an hour and some time because of the system, we don't hear each other, the pay phone is obviously better, but we'll see how it goes on. Yesterday, the minister spoke to the National Assembly, sitting down, not to mention any law that he spoke of, and especially about this law he spoke of, it seems to me to be a humiliation to the National Assembly. Show me the parliament in Europe where it is done, in which the minister is speaking to the National Assembly. The questions I want to ask are to a man who has several functions, called Ivica Dacic, I ask him a question, let's say, as police minister, although he and the Deputy Prime Minister are the first deputy in the government. I'm asking, when will the investigation into the Panic case be completed? We warned from the assembly pay phone, we said that it must not be crossed over, we invited you, colleagues from the ruling majority, to help us, we said that it must not be kept quiet that a man died on the streets of Belgrade by a police boot. We said it had to be established, unfortunately, some of our colleagues agreed to form so-called. A commission that, as of today, the Ministry has not finished the job. And that's when I said from the assembly booth that commissions are forming, according to the old communist custom, just because nothing was solved. In an interview, the minister literally said – that the policeman who dumped Panic did not intend to kill him. I'm holding that interview and waiting for the minister to appear at a meeting of the Defence and Security Committee to ask him the same question. In other words, the minister knows what kind of cop it is, and even in some way he's judging himself. If we had resolved the question of Panic, it might not have been, in fact, convinced, that the young man Zaric would have died on the streets of Belgrade. The minister says he's only been with the police for eight months and he can't put everything in order. I will remind him that before he became a minister, no one was killed on the streets of Serbia in such a way. There were very few cases, but only in the defense, when someone from the firearms shot at the cops, but to kill a citizen, a civilian, in the way in which in these two cases, it never happened. If we wait for him to be a four-year minister, you figure out for yourself what percentage that would be and what number of people, based on the average that is so far. So someone has to answer for this. So, as far as the investigation is concerned, first of all, in the Panic case, it's almost a year away? I expect the answer to that question very quickly. When will the charges be filed? Natasa Kandic winks, five officers are arrested and the indictment is under way. What about the Panic case, I repeat by who knows which time. Are we back in the '90s? What's going on with the Serbian police? (Chairman: National MP, five minutes.) I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16812	The word has been made by Parliament MP Marina Ragus, representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Excuse me, People's MPs, before you is MP Miroslav Markicevic, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, in a row from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16813	Dear Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, since Tuesday, in this House of the National Assembly, a session was under way, I would like to inform Serbian citizens that I believe that the president of the Serbian Parliament, who is not present here, has misinformed Serbian citizens. I am not allowed to ask the question, not because I did not sit in my seat, but because the president had some major other problems. So, New Serbia's MPs, according to the Administrative Committee's decision, were sitting in their seats, and I asked, under article 235, to exercise my right to the Rules of Procedure to ask a question and I am not allowed to do so. So, you, as chairman, should answer that question after five minutes have elapsed on which I have the right under my Rules of Procedure. Another question I ask you: do you, who are the chairmans of this National Assembly, have you a register of questions that the MPs have asked? How do you handle these questions? Are you asking the Government or any minister, are you warning him that he has an obligation to answer parliamentary questions? Otherwise, the question arises as to what is the point of going out for this pay phone and asking questions in the first place. The point may be that the citizens we represent here see that we are doing something and asking questions on their behalf. If the government, the Prime Minister and the ministers don't want to answer questions that they may not like, that's another question, but then you, as chairman, must report this high house to these things. I have a few questions today, and I hope I can explain them here in the next few minutes as far as I can. First, citizens and the public, the people of this country are interested in what agreement has the Government of the Republic of Serbia reached with the IMF and how long will it bear the code'secret'? Is it possible that the results of these negotiations can be a secret to all citizens of Serbia if they are concerned? Then one day we have a statement from the Prime Minister on the solidarity tax, and the other day we have opposing statements from Governor Jelasic. According to one statement, it is one down payment for all employees in Serbia. According to Governor Jelasic's second statement, 2009 will be catastrophic, and in 2010, it will be even worse, and that our country's recovery and better standard of citizens can be expected in 2011 – what is the truth of all this? Is this government a secret, did we publicly elect her, though, not in this room? Does she intend to account for the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia? The second question I want to ask here concerns a famous phantom contract with the Fiat. It seems to me, although we could not see that contract as the national representatives, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that one of the provisions was that, on March 31st, the company "Fiat" needed to invest 200m euros in the joint venture. What's going on with that, what's the truth about that? Does anyone want to sell these 20,000 car stamps "full" and then present them as their 200m-euro stake? I would like to remind all Kragujevac and all Serbian citizens that one MP, the mayor of Kragujevac, has made a public solemn statement here or in the media, that he will almost execute harakiri if by 31 March "Fiyat" does not fulfil his obligations? I ask Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Economy: what is the truth about the Fiat?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16814	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, MP group Forward, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, has applied for a session to be held to answer questions which, in fact, torture Serbia, which are measures of the new economic policies of the Government of Serbia or should already be innovated, so that we should say -- new measures, compared to those you have called new measures, as ministers complain that the disclosure of measures in the public has caused a public ody to measures, and they will not be applied. So we're really interested, like all Serbian citizens, what are you preparing, pretending like nothing's going on, how are we going to take this crisis together, how capable is who and how much can help the state right now? Are you ready for the denials that concern you and your denial of what the government brings in itself, but this moment should not be used to the fullest extent? We're interested in whether it finally broke with the Fiat or not, did the Fiat strike down a deadline to invest funds in a car factory? We're interested in how many cars did you make in Kragujevac? When are you going to pay off the bonds? When are you gonna stop the governor of the NBS from harassing people's money? When are you going to stop the ministers, because they don't understand the situation they're in? We would really like you to allow us, according to the Rules of Procedure, a session where Serbian citizens would find out, a set is under way, what a session, how much it will cost, as it will be able to sell. I don't even know if you know it's worth loading pigs or calves anymore, that it's not worth producing milk, tobacco, tail, sunflower, almost soy. I'm interested in what do you think you can fill the budget, except for these loans that create a basis for some new loans and new borrowings? I'm really interested in how many people will stay hungry this year, how many new folk cuisines will be open, how many poor women won't be able to enroll children in school in the autumn, and how many new cars bought under extraordinary circumstances will be packed with Serbia and Serbia's cities? Please, since we are not at all refusing to answer the questions we are asking, allow at least to ask further questions, let Serbian citizens know who they are dealing with. The situation is extremely difficult, and here we spend days and days in whether we can hold a session or not. It is that the environmental laws of this hour are not too important, but one day is enough to bring them too. Let's skip that too, but come up with finally a agenda that will interest the built-in Serbia. You don't stick your head in the sand. We're ready for the election, we're going to organize it, and we're looking forward to that election, but it's not going to solve it either. When we are in a crisis where you will lead us into your unreasonable behavior, the question is whether or not we will be able to get the country out of all this. And just to remind you, I've lost the presidential election in my time of speaking about co-operation with Russia and America, I see that your president is now intensively pushing it, speaking of co-operation with non-classified people, I can see that your president is pushing it. He should at least apologize for attracting more voters to false promises. Still, it was a real policy, and I'm satisfied, so let's make real politics, so I guess Serbia will get better again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16816	The word has been sent by the People's Parliament to Marina Ragush, an authorised representative of the SRS Group. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? No, I don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16817	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I hope you can hear back there at least every word we try to say today, but what matters most to us is the public in Serbia who needs to know that everything that's been going on lately, and especially about the largest opposition party – the SRS, is, as we see it, and that is our deep confidence, organized campaign which, for the ultimate purpose, has really been silenced by the free word and the state of Serbia. What our understanding of the political, but in the first place of the economic and social situation is, is that the government, which is completely alienated from the people, and that is seen in this House, absolutely does not want to meet all the demands of citizens, and we are trying to say here, for this speaker, in front of this prestigious home. So I won't repeat myself, the public has indeed, and all of you, had the opportunity to see what the government's relationship to what is called the economic and social position of Serbian citizens. In Serbia, over half a million people live below the poverty line. By the end of last year, about 67,000 people were left with no means to live. A thousand people will be out of social services by July 1st this year. So we haven't had the opportunity, and this is a direct question for the Serbian prime minister, to hear and see specifically what the government is specifically preparing to protect the basic existential needs of the Serbian state? It's a question on which the SRS, however many of us remain in this room, will demand. What we offered as absolutely possible and the only real way in the May elections last year is that Serbia has no alternative. We, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, are going to prove these days and these weeks that what you have chosen as a road, it is legitimate and there is nothing controversial, people have voted for that Europe has no alternative, bring Serbia hunger, poverty, and given the situation that is happening in the sovereign part of KIM territory, it seems to be complete isolation. What should be clear to the citizens of Serbia and the entire Serbian public, that all those millions and 22,000 votes, which we have won as the SRS, along with the list holder Dr Vojislav Seselj, will be here until the last atom of strength to prove that everything that is the accelerated path of joining the EU, will not solve any existential or social problem of Serbian citizens, that they are, unfortunately, deceived by choosing that path. We will hopefully be able to show that what Serbia can do, because Serbia has no alternative, is the only right path for Serbian citizens. How do we do that? By bringing all the ministers here, all the members of the Serbian government, to speak openly to the public about where the money they have received so far, all nine years through the donation system, which projects have achieved, what problem has the EU's solution to improve the lives of Serbian citizens? What is a key issue, too, no less important, is a complete derogation of the symbols of Serbia's national culture. Ladies and gentlemen, what's quite startling on our part is that you absolutely did not respond to the very important names that resigned from the post of director of the national institutions of culture. You have done nothing to protect such an area from touching the ruling set, or from total politicization. The public in Serbia has been denied the answers and this is a question for Mr. Culture Minister: how is it possible that all the directors of the national culture institutions are talking about the politicisation of culture and the politically similar staff, and that there is not at least one protest in the public? (President: five minutes. Thank you. I'm sorry, just to finish my thought. What we're expecting here is for Mr. Culture Minister to say that he's not ashamed to continue to be in that place when these people resigned?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16818	Whether any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or authorised representatives want to exercise their right under Article 235. Is the Rules of Procedure asking for an explanation or an additional explanation? No, I don't. ) I am giving additional notice on the course of the session in today’s work day. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Velimir Ilic, Jelena Travar-Miljević, Suzana Grubjesic and Nikola Žutić. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly is in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the meetings, apart from the proposing representatives, to be attended by Gradimir Nenadovic, the director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Darko Radojcic, assistant director of the Republic Secretariat for Law. On the occasion of the next agenda points, Milan Avramov, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, Aleksandar Vasic, Ljiljana Stanojevic and Jelena Cvetkovic, assistant environmental and spatial planning ministers. We move on to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON LOOKING AND USE OF GRBA, FLAT AND THE HYMNAL REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (principles) In yesterday's working day, after the opening of the principle debate, he had his right to address the National Assembly on behalf of the Proposer Minister Oliver Dulic. Further information, there has been a change and a notification has been sent to the National Assembly that a representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Marina Ragus, has been authorised. Do the rapporteurs of the committees want a word, the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, as well as the chairman of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. ) National MPs who have issued an opinion, Zoran Krasic and Verica Radeta, would have the right to explain their opinions but have been excluded from the session of the National Assembly due to violations of the decisions of the Administrative Committee and serious violations of order. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has been delivered by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Progress Group, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a citizen of Serbia for a very long time, it has bothered me that we do not have an official mark and that we were forced, by any recommendation, by nothing founded, to commit the held authorities to using any markings that, if you choose to vote like this, should be the markings of the Republic of Serbia. We also had this problem as the Serbian Progressive Party in order to apply not only heraldics but also the history of marking Serbian statehood, and we did not dare, as the government of the Republic of Serbia did, to bind Serbia's statehood to the coat of arms drawn by one German, to the best Serbian historian Novakovic, to draw a German rather than the Nemanic coat of arms. If you wanted to ask around and really tie us to the Germans, and I think that's where we're going, our roots, and that unfortunately all of our statehood is tied to the successes of Germany, you could see where this eagle, which you recommend today, from the two-headed, real, white eagle of Germany. First of all, you're not proposing a double-headed eagle to us, but a double-headed eagle. A minor eagle, a white eagle on a red background, had only one neck, had a stake or, these new ones would say, a collar around his neck. There were two heads coming out of that door. His claws and his tail were symbolized by lilies, and now you're proposing a bird that has a completely different position of wings that resembles a German eagle, and it's not like a Byzantine or paleological one, it just seems to me, if Novakovic was deceived, that you could hire heraldic experts in Serbia, none of us are in SNS, but sometimes we can learn lessons from their work, and sometimes they're strange, sometimes working for money, and especially in municipalities when they do coats, so they fill everything and everything. With regard to the coat of arms that should represent Serbia, there is no dispute, either it is the Nemak coat of arms or you admit that we are 1882, and then it is confirmed once more in one Assembly, and we decided that as some state related to German heraldic, we become known for the features that you would like to use today. Of course, as the National Assembly decides, so will SNS MPs, and we will also convince through the party those citizens who trust us that this must be respected and respected. Still, it's better to have any mark than not to have a mark. But you should have thought about it. I know, Mr. Minister, it's none of your business. You've taken a few jobs that aren't your job, and I know you have to learn a lot and work, day and night, to find out something about spatial planning and heraldics, because it's not your profession, but I accept that an intelligent and educated man can manage very easily in a matter that isn't his, because work can replace many schools where meaningless subjects are taught. Your explanation was a dung, I didn't attend, I read it from the note, and it's not about Nemnjec, and it's about Serbian statehood. You know, the one who binds Serbian statehood, and doesn't mention Germanic, simply releases a huge part of the history of which there are records, and the coat of arms, that eagle, once with a helmet, because the Germans didn't have a shield in their markings, that two-headed white eagle is completely recognizable in many monasteries today. Unfortunately, he is not here in Mileša, the fresco has been completely destroyed, but you can also see in the Virgin Mary of Ljevishko, on the symbols on the clothes of Serbian rulers. The Italians wrote about it, Byzantium wrote about it, the Vaseljen Patriarchy has a very similar eagle taken over when the Germans also bound themselves to Byzantium, when Emperor Dusan wanted to be heir to the vast empire. So we have something to raise and praise and it's not 1882 and it's not 1804 years and it's not the beginning of our statehood. We and the Happy Constitution have somehow defined ourselves as far as our constitutional practice goes, instead of going back many centuries when we were as a nation, as a state, much more respected than today. If these symbols help us to be respected as a people and as a nation and as a state, God help us and so be it. You can't give the symbols to impress all the citizens and make everyone happy, and especially, let's just say, with a song. As an opposition, we have all favored “the God of justice, ” but there have been many disputes between us about it. Someone thought that the "Vojsta Serbi" song that we will need over the centuries seems to be needed, and someone thought, for example, I, did not matter at all, that "Oh Serbia is a sweet mother", a song that was once an anthem, so they threw it to Karadjordjevic, and it seemed to bother her that Nedic took it as a state anthem during World War II. When the "God of Justice" is played, I will rise up, just as I was standing on the "Hey Slovene" anthem. I didn't think that song tied me up as a Serb, but it was a national anthem and I wanted to show that I respected the state and didn't like it when the viewers whistled "Hey Slovene", expressing their desire to get an anthem, not their protest because they live in a country called Yugoslavia. Some, especially older, might wish we could have saved at least some part of Yugoslavia. So, the flag, the flag, it's all clear. The flag was created by Karadjordje sending emissaries to Russia to bring him the Russian flag, he wanted us to have a Russian flag. They brought him, but forgot how to climb a spear, turned her upside down, and now we have red-blue-white, Russians have white-blue-red, never mind, we are brothers of both origin and faith and the future that more and more draws us together, it's obvious. We will vote for these symbols, vote for the state we gave both the Constitution and the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, the symbols are worked once and for all, but it remains regrettable that we are not in symbols, in symbolism, in tradition bound to the Germans, but we have tied ourselves exclusively to a single emblem well done, and that one would also look nice, therefore, done by order and the man who worked it, the Stroche or I don't know how, I forgot what it was called, was some background from Germany, he made it so that Serbia looks like Germany and I will remain that regret, though, I say that I will vote for these symbols. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16820	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? He's got Mrs. Marina Ragush's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16821	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I will only use part of the time of those twenty minutes I have available. What I would like to hear from Mr. Dulic, who is here and I am really happy about it, is the answer, conditionally speaking, to some of my dilemmas and the answer to a specific question. So, Mr. Dulic, Mr. Minister, I hold in my hands the law on the use of the national symbols of Kosovo. The law on the use of Kosovo's state symbols was adopted on 20 February 2008. The law on the use of Kosovo's state symbols says -- the assembly of the Republic of Kosovo on the basis of Article 65.1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kosovo in order to establish legal rules on the use of the state symbols of the Republic of Kosovo adopts a law on the use of state symbols. This law in Article 1 regulates the use of Kosovo's state symbols. The state symbols of the Republic of Kosovo are the flag, coat of arms and anthem. The flag, coat of arms and anthem of the Republic of Kosovo represents the Republic of Kosovo and the identity of the Republic of Kosovo. The flag, coat of arms and anthems of the Republic of Kosovo shall be used in accordance with the law and the relevant sublaws adopted in the implementation of this law. In Article 3rd form, dimensions, flags and coat of arms, text content and partition of the anthem, the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo determines. There, indeed, you have a solid number of members. Here, this is the law in the sovereign part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia (shows the text), which is firstly derivated by the highest legislative act, which is the Constitution, which, secondly, confirms the true face of the international community, and firstly, we think of the US administration, British, Brussels, which, behold, on March 23rd at the Security Council session confirmed, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, that Kosovo is independent. And that is the irrevocable fact that Marty Ahtisaari's plan is being implemented in Kosovo. Serbia understands, Mr. Minister, as far as Kosovo and the relations of major Western forces are concerned, that this is over and that it is over. You will forgive me, but today's presentation, concerning national and state symbols of the state of Serbia, will go in that direction, Mr. Minister. What we expect from you here, like all citizens of the Serbian state, is that you tell us right away – when will the Serbian flag in Pristina turn?- I'm sorry. When will the God of Justice echo Kim?- I'm sorry. When will the two-headed Nemanic eagle shine brightly in the brightest places of the Serbian Metohija?- I'm sorry. When are we going to be able to enter the Cave of the Patriarchy and the High Decades normally and freely, Mr. Minister?- I'm sorry. When will all the institutions and local offices in KIM territory have Serbian national and state symbols?- I'm sorry. This is what a representative of the Serbian government should answer us in this prestigious home, without twisting, directly, as once did, unfortunately, the murdered prime minister of DS, Serbian Prime Minister Djindjic -- a cold shower for the people, so that the people know what the situation is. Because the people don't know. The people don't know, Mr. Minister, but the people can only listen to certain half-reports in the regime media, but the people don't know, especially the one who's been expelled from the KIM territory -- when the 'God of Justice' will be the anthem they'll be able to stand up for, take off their hat for all the victims and expelled from the KIM territory. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16822	I thank Mrs. Ragush. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic, an authorised representative of the DSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I would like to say at first that it is a good thing that Serbia, or the Serbian Parliament today is discussing the bill on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem. It's a good thing we're doing it right here. It's not good to start this session in such a bad atmosphere. It's not a good thing the tensions are rising from day to day in this House. It's not good that the ruling coalition can't find a common language with the opposition from the moment it was formed. It is not good that the ruling coalition is unable to provide the basic conditions for the work of this parliament. This is a typical example of disrespect for state institutions, I mean primarily the Serbian Parliament. I believe that one of the most dramatic examples of disrespect of this parliament was made yesterday, precisely because the session was launched in an atmosphere that was not worthy of this home, when the draft law on the agenda was explained by the minister, who had no basis to be the authorised minister for this part of the agenda. It would be the same as if the minister of religion had explained the bill on securities of value. I remind you that the proposal for a law on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem has an exceptional importance for the Republic of Serbia and I think that the government has shown and acted quite unseriously on this issue. All this is about the state of our state institutions, all this is about the state of our country today. I think that's why the best way out of a situation like this, where we're generally in the state, is to call new elections. I still want to go back to the bill itself. This bill should have been passed much earlier. Instead of the law that was supposed to regulate this matter, we have so far had a recommendation to the National Assembly of 2004 and the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the use of state symbols. This bill does not treat this matter differently from the recommendation and from the conclusion of the Government. I believe that it is in the best sense entirely identical, only in a certain sense it meets those rules of the use of state symbols during international meetings. The coat of arms, flag and anthem represents the Republic of Serbia, expressing its belonging to the Republic of Serbia. That's just the symbolic meaning of these national markings. I believe that as part of the state and states in the broadest sense of the word should contribute significantly to raising awareness, primarily among the younger population, about the essential importance of these symbols. I'd like to make a mistake, but my impression is that a significant part of our population is not entirely sure of the appearance of our national symbols. I think that the state primarily through education, through primary schools and beyond, should play a key role in raising awareness of the essential importance of these symbols and that its greatest share of the view in raising the patriotic consciousness that has been through many years and the difficult times that Serbia has been going through has been quite lost. Today, attempts to desecrate anything that has a national sound in the country are noticeable and visible. I think the tolerance of such phenomena, especially through media favoration, contributes to a significant reduction in those most primal feelings that citizens should have for their country. It's a pretty widespread phenomenon with us. I believe that the state, by its example and by one serious work, should restore the faith of the citizens of the country. I could, in turn, list the countries, the countries of the developed West and how they hold to their national symbols, and how they respect and love their state symbols. I think that the U.S. went farthest and in this case that example, a brilliant example, we should follow when we speak and when we refer to our state symbols. I don't think there's any American who doesn't know or knows what every star on the American flag means. I think that envied level of national consciousness was acquired by Americans for many years. For example, children attend the intonation of the anthem and flaglifting before the start of school. In this way, from the earliest age of life, a relationship with the state is created and developed through state symbols. Also, there is no house in America that has no visiblely exposed or impaled American flag. To her, in fact, they treat her like a saint. Unfortunately, we have a completely different situation. With us national flags are rarely seen in buildings of state institutions and are often in a state that does not suit them. In southern central Serbia, Presevo and Bujanovac, it is a regular phenomenon that the Albanian flag rises during each local event. They even went so far as to lower the Albanian flag day and raise the Albanian flag. I find it inadmissible that the state tolerates such phenomena. I find it inadmissible that in Serbia's country, on Serbia's soil, state Serb symbols are completely not respected and that the law prohibits the use of foreign features on Serbia's soil in this way. In addition to these extreme examples, we in our political life have examples of politicians wearing badges instead of state symbols wearing badges with the markings of their political parties. This significantly distinguishes us from the countries of the developed West, from countries that treat their national symbols in a completely different way. At the very end, I must say that it is good that Serbia as one of the oldest European countries, which began its statehood in the seventh century, managed by the 2006 Constitution to restore its state signs that had lost six decades earlier. I must also say that Serbia did not have its state signs in that original form just during communism and under the Turks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16824	Thank you, Mrs. Radovic. The word has the president of the SPS-JS parliamentary group Branko Ruzic, and then Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16825	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS-JS Group will vote in favour of this law on the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthems of the Republic of Serbia. We are pleased that after practically 18 years, now 19, Serbia is now getting a law on the use of state signs, and the state sign of the sea should, regardless of the atmosphere in which we started this session in the last three days, be a factor of unity, therefore, a state sign and state symbols should be what we will gather about, regardless of the politicality of any party. So, when you have a situation to intonate your anthem, to perform with a certain state sign, to look at the coat of arms of your country or in the flag, of course in all of us, it is the highest feeling, and that is why it is important that we at least on this issue unite, unite and, hopefully, all of us in the voting day vote for the bill. The adoption of this law will practically honor Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 5. So we will also round up the formal regulation of the use of the state of the Republic of Serbia's symbols. This question should not cause any controversy, it should simply be a formalization of the current state. It was not appropriate to regulate the use of state symbols by recommending, but it was better than not having any act to regulate it at all. With this act we become, thank God, a serious state and I hope that these highest feelings will be present with all citizens of the Serbian state when they see their flag, listen to their anthem and see their coat of arms. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16826	Thank you, Mr. Rose. The word is from Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, representative of the New Serbia Group of MPs, then Mrs. Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16827	Your Honor, I have a serious problem because I have no idea how long it's been while I'm speaking, so I'd like to ask you... (President: You have 20 minutes at your disposal. I know, but I don't have any exams, there's no clock in which we can watch here or some traffic light, like the one in the previous assembly, that would allow us to control as much as we speak. Now either call me on my cell phone representatives of my parliamentary group or maybe, more functionally, you let me know when the 10 minutes are up. (President: I will, I will tell you. ) So it is clear that the basic symbols of each state are coat of arms, flag, and anthem. The coat of arms and anthems of every country, nation or state besides serving as identification symbols should also have a positive effect on people's consciousness and feelings. In order to truly properly shape the sense of nationality, finally national and national identity, in the election of coat of arms and anthem, care must be taken which and any ideas are woven into them. Every image, tune and feeling has a spiritual background that, of course, works below the threshold of consciousness. According to culture sociologist Dr Milos Nemmanic, the time has come to think carefully about our historical identification. In the deepest layer of the complex of values are images and symbols that make up the basic performances of a nation. No European state, regardless of all integration processes, shall give up its fundamental, cultural values and symbols which, of course, represent those values. The issue of state symbols cannot be either plebiscitarian or exclusively an expert question, it is necessary to explain their meaning and meaning and the essence of these symbols. The heraldics were mentioned. Heraldists are scientists dealing with, in an objective, scientific way with the state coat of arms, they formed a working group for state symbols a few years ago, to analyse the current heraldic situation, in order to bring about the first state symbols that will be above daily politics and ideological abuses. In order to show that the present coat of arms, flag and anthem are historical and traditional signs, a small historical reference should be made to the fact that the coat of arms and an anthem of the restored Kingdom of Serbia is made. In the early 20th century, Europe was made up of old absoluteist monarchies with feudal order and well-developed heraldics. State coat of arms consisted of the crown of rulers and hermelin robe, which otherwise curves the shield with heraldic symbols. It is rare that the monarchy had a constitution until the mid-20th century, since the government, of course, had unlimited powers. Accordingly, the hymns had a dynasty, not a folk, character, and most often began with "God, keep the king" or "car," but according to who was at the head of the state. The greatest fighter for the Serbian state coat of arms in the 19th century was Prince Milos, and after the great diplomatic peripetia of the Principality of Serbia, an official coat of arms was acquired in 1838, but had no anthem until the end of 1872. After the death of Prince Michael, on May 29th 1868 in Topcider, 14-year-old Milos Obrenovic, the fourth Serbian son of Milos, came to the Serbian throne. His adulthood was celebrated on August 10th 1872 at the National Theatre in Belgrade. After the ceremony, a piece of Mark's Sabre was performed, written by theatre director Jovan Djordjevic, inspired by the 1848 Allegory of Jovan Sterija Popović "San Kraljevića Mark". At the end of the play, according to Slovenians Davorin Yenko, the chaplain and composer of the National Theatre, sang a song without title and of two ceilings, it began with "God of Justice". After the wars with Turkey, in 1876 and 1877, in 1878 Serbia became an independent principality, increased by 14.76% and four new districts -- Niski, Pirotski, Vranjska and Toplitski. To warn the financial uncertainty, Prince Milan was quick, without coronation, because the Obrenovic dynasty had no crown, organised a declaration of the kingdom on February 22nd 1882 at the National Theatre. The final song from Mark's Sabre was taken for an anthem, which was performed for his adult life 10 years ago. The text has been changed because Jovan Djordjevic threw out another ceiling and added three more – the prince became king. The melodies are gone, and that's how the anthem of "God of Justice" came to be. So, the anthem that needs to be officially passed today by this law was made in 1882, with the difference that instead of "the Serbian king, the Serb family", it says -- "Serbian countries, the Serb family", but it is also a matter of time. New Serbia will vote for this law and these proposals of state symbols, but when we come to power, believe me, the day is coming to make this one for us, too, essential, and one technical change, which is to bring the anthem back to its former state and to sing what it is and now we sing: "God, save the Serbian king, the Serb stork." As far as the coat of arms is concerned, what is quite clear is that Serbian history and tradition cannot begin in 1941, not even in 1904 or 1804, but since the 13th century, by Nemnjević. The three main Serb heraldic symbols are the royal crown of the coronation of Stefan Prvočeno in Žica on Spasovdan, 20 May 1221, then, the two-headed silver white eagle on the purple red field and purple red shield with silver white cross and four letters "S", the coat of arms of Serbian despotic, the despot of Stefan Lazarevic since 1402. Otherwise, a two-headed eagle without a crown was used only during the German occupation, from 1941 to 1944. That is why the crown of Nemnjević, which has been a symbol of Serbian independence since the beginning of the 13th century, is placed in its place. Serbia as one of the oldest European states to begin its statehood in the early 7th century, the new Constitution since 2006, has regained its signs, which has lost some six decades earlier. State symbols in their original form, as counterpart Milica Radovic said earlier, were not only under Turkey and communism. Any similarity is random. Member of the 2006 Constitution, Article 7, clearly defines state symbols. The present coat of arms is, by the way, in use before the referendum on the new Constitution, in the light of the Government's recommendation of 17. Eight. In 2004, which still had no binding character. So, as the basic symbols of one state, coat of arms, flag and anthem, proposed by this law, are something that reflects our national and national interests and will, of course, announce that New Serbia will certainly vote for this law. And here I agree with my DSS colleague, that it may have been a little late to pass this law, because while I was studying literature related to the history of these state symbols, I came to an interesting conclusion, that is, on the official site you can find a website of the Republic of Kosovo and their government, where you have the opportunity to enter the state portal of the Republic of Kosovo and see what their law on the use of the national symbols of Kosovo looks like. In addition to declaring Kosovo a false state, in addition to adopting the constitution, they immediately passed a law on the use of state symbols, and it took Serbia a little more centuries to do so. Something that I think is also not insignificant is that it's good that today this technical system has failed, maybe it's God's own thought and that we have to speak straight, standing, from this pay phone. You know, I find it extremely inadmissible to talk about important state symbols and explain sitting. In no country in this world you can speak of an anthem, a flag, and a coat of arms by sitting in a bench, something leafy and mumbling, as if you were talking about something that is secret, not something that is the most solemn and significant sign of every country. Then, obviously things got out of hand with us, so, we noticed, on Army Day, a person in the role of Serbian President comes in non-chalantly dressed, while soldiers are in elite uniforms. On Statehood Day, the prime minister comes with a hat, and finally, when a representative of the government is to address this state symbol law here, they send us "Mr. orthopedics", I really don't mind if it was a health care law, they send us an "ortopeda" as Minister of Spatial Planning, who speaks of state symbols by sitting. You will admit that such a thing is inadmissible and in that name I will read you something that may be a recommendation for the three listed, and not just for them. So the three most sacred signs of every country are the flag, coat of arms and anthem of that country. By them, the earth is recognizable to the whole world. With them in their hands and lips, countless unknown and known patriots across our planet have given their lives, building into the foundations of their homeland's freedom. Because of all this, the flag and anthem symbolizing that fight and that country deserve special attention and special respect. In order to give them the particular importance, the duty of attention...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16828	Ten minutes have passed, Mrs. Jankovic. You said to let you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16829	I'll keep going. ... A special ceremony, protocol, was established in all countries of the world when the country's flag was raised. It has become a civilizational act of universal patriotism, which in people is a special thrill, pride and a sense of belonging to one community, a community that gives above all and has a sense of security. Neretically, we can see the giants of the human race crying during the flag-lifting and singing of their country's anthem. Only heroes and patriots can cry on that occasion, that is. men worthy of respect and admiration. Can you imagine where I read what I read? It's about the Polletar's notebook. "The Poletar's notebook", the reconnaissance organization is at stake, and now a special reference to what I said earlier, means that the inappropriate behavior of the people who represent us in the government and who are in the role of the president is the following: All the time singing an anthem stands in an absolute attitude calmly, meaning that it does not get wrinkled, does not laugh, does not talk, hands that are beside the body do not move. Why does it have to stand? First of all, because it's a question of culture, elementary education and levels of civilization development. Also, as someone will stand when the flag rises and sings their anthems or any other country, and even when it is spoken of, I add, it is a matter of domestic education, of basic order, and what is important to emphasize – respect for ourselves, of your country, of your ancestors, as well as their efforts, of the victims, that we live in freedom today. Why did we have the need and obligation to point out everything above? Not long ago, very unpleasant and degutant things were happening at public gatherings in our country. During the intonation and singing of our anthem, we whistled, screamed, sat, smoked. It was all more than primitive. The need to raise the flag and sing anthem is also denied. It's a great shame for our people and it shows to the world who we really are and what we really are. Thank God, now after receiving an anthem, which is a real Serbian anthem, an anthem of "God of Justice", the situation has changed greatly. We have received symbols that are both traditional and historical Serbian. Now, all we have to do is act in harmony with national and national interests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16830	Thank you. There's five minutes left. I give my word to National MP Nadia Kolundji, head of the ZES Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16831	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the ZES Group will vote in favour of this law on coat of arms, anthem and flag. Serbia has on several occasions been in a position to pass the law and determine what state symbols it is and all these occasions it has missed. In 2006, let me say, the latest date when the opportunity was again set before Serbia, now already, and the obligation to establish its symbols. I must say, on the one hand, it is my pleasure that this composition of Parliament and this parliamentary majority has put this important law on the agenda. At the same time, I want to say that we've done everything we can to make sure that this is exactly the law, estimating the importance of national and national symbols, we want this session and this debate to be a picture of what it's meant to be. I regret to say that some have wanted to turn this topic into what we've seen for the last two days. It is the constitution that has determined that a special law determines the appearance and use of national and national symbols. Not wanting to enter the historical, heraldic, traditional and other reasons why these symbols are the way they are and whether we all agree on that, I want to say that it is our pleasure that these symbols rely on tradition, which we believe is important. They link the present to the past, which we also think is important, although there are those who think these symbols could have been different. We trust those who have established on the basis of history, heraldic sciences, that these are symbols that represent in the best way what is the tradition of Serbian statehood, and therefore we will vote in favour of this law in the day of voting, confident, of course, that in this way and the future we will rely on what is tradition and traditional values, but that in that future, not forgetting what jetradition, we will build a modern society, a society that will know that the values of modern societies are, and that is man and individual and his rights. I am sure, of course, that it will be built and adopted by this law and by laying down rules for the use of these symbols, because there have been certain doubts, so to speak, that we will not know that we respect these symbols, so many times we have interrupted our own tradition and started all over again. I think it's a good thing we don't start this time as if history starts with us, but we rely on what our history is and we build a relationship of respect and respect for what state symbols are. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16832	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I give my word to Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic, from the list of registered candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16833	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at first I would like to say that you've done this very nicely. Which doesn't do the electronic voting system and what our microphones in the places we need to talk about don't do it, obviously, it doesn't matter to you. I have a proposal to install two rearviewers on this pay phone, I think you can finish it in a few million, so we can see if the minister is sitting or standing in his seat, because I think it's rude to turn our backs on him, and I'm embarrassed to speak and turn around, and that's how I turn around. The fact is, according to counterpart Radovic, that Serbia received its first forms of statehood back in the seventh century, which is certainly the order of the oldest European countries, and therefore speaking about this topic with respect, dignity and great respect. Today we are talking about the basic symbols of a country. They are the coat of arms, flag and anthem, which must be respected by every citizen of the Serbian state. Serbia has restored its historical and traditional signs to the 2006 Constitution. Thank God it happened then, because we had a recommendation that wasn't binding. We had no symbols under the Turks and communists, and I hope that time will never return, although some, sitting in this building, would obviously love it. This law should monitor a series of documents that will later be brought in and perhaps need to be incorporated into certain provisions – that our state officials in their cabinets on the wall hold back the coat of arms of the Serbian state, not pictures of the beloved leader. Also, the law provides for the use of the flag of the Republic of Serbia, as it should look, when using the national flag, but look at certain institutions in the Republic of Serbia, especially at schools in Serbia, as we see flags. If they're not new, at least they have to be clean and they have to be placed on a pedestal that at least looks decent. It is fortunate that every house in Serbia in its backyard has a Serbian flag and has raised its children since birth to respect the flag and respect the anthems of their country. Speaking of an anthem, there's an official version known to sound and it's really inadmissible for an anthem to perform estraced stars, to sing opera singers at the official games of the Republic of Serbia. I don't mind artistic freedom, but I demand that it be taken care of, because last week we had the opportunity to hear from a distance anthem of Serbia which is not its official version. So I ask you, when we are already discussing this law and when finally by law we will determine the appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem, to treat these symbols with dignity, because I think that the state of Serbia and all its citizens deserve it completely. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16834	The word is Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, so Mr. Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16835	Dear President, Mr Dulic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the symbols of the Serbian state. Every country, that republic, was a monarchy, has its symbols, which are coat of arms, flag, and anthem. If we've been historically observing things since the Middle Ages, only in the age of national revolutions in the 19th century, these three symbols have become the elements of the identity of every country, beginning with the American revolution in the late 18th century, the French bourgeois revolution, and especially at the time of the creation of national states in the 19th century. The coat of arms, flag and anthem are something that expresses the state's identity and sovereignty. On the other hand, coat of arms, flag and anthem are both a term and a collective memory and a sublimed tradition. That's the way it is in all modern states. So we don't have a state that invents some new symbols, but is always relying on the continuity of the state, on its tradition, on its history, and on the values that have been built into this very history from which modern states came. Through these symbols, through the flag, coat of arms and anthem, the Republic of Serbia is represented and belongs to the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I will remind you that the legal basis for the use of these three symbols so far has been the recommendation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, after that, the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution requires this Parliament to make this matter legal and we are doing it through this law. I will remind you that this law stipulates that a large and small coat of arms is being used, that the large coat of arms is being used in an intended manner only by state bodies of educated institutions, these are the National Assembly, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Court, the State Auditory Institution and the Citizens' Protector. So, all branches of government and legislative and executive and judicial, and what I particularly appreciate, the great coat of arms also benefits the ombudsman, i.e. the patron of the citizens and the State Auditing Institution, as an independent state body. There's no dilemma about the view, no need to argue about our tricolor, red, blue, white flags. The national and national flag, which is prescribed by this law, on which occasions and how it is used, and that the standard national flag used by the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly is a logical solution, given that both the President of the Republic and the Serbian Assembly draws their sovereignty out of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The symbols are very important for a country. So they're a symbol of identity, a symbol of sovereignty. We have defined ourselves for these traditional symbols and they express one state continuity, express a combination of the past and the present. They're used not only by state authorities, but by some of the respected previous speakers here, they're also talking about supranational organizations, as our flag is blowing up in New York, outside the UN building. In front of the MEP group, we will vote for this law, but I want to remind both of our wish and our intention that all the laws that we will pass later, both at this session and in the next period, will be in this capacity for our national flag to flow like 28 or 29 flags of EU countries. That's why I'm asking you to vote for this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16836	Thank you, Mr. Ratkovic. I give my word to Mr. Bozidar Delic, then Mr. Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16837	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a very important issue. When we talk about it, we can go through heraldic science all the way to the seventh or eighth centuries, when we practically meet in our spaces the first signs that traditionally need to be represented today by our national markings, especially the flag and coat of arms. I want to remind you of something that all of us here have experienced, not in such a way as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, we have separated with one of our republics, the brother Republic of Montenegro. We had the same flag. Montenegrins only said their flag was blue with doves, so it's a little different from Serbian. To prove then that Montenegrins were not Serbs overnight without anyone finding it in their tradition, they also changed that flag, wanting to show they do not have Serbian roots. It all says how important this issue is and it says that it may be a shame for all of us to have that recommendation for so many years on the use of coat of arms, flags and anthem and that only today, these days, in a very unpleasant atmosphere we decide on such an important issue. Article 7 of our Constitution speaks of two types of flag, state and national. There's another kind of flag that's not mentioned in the Constitution, it's mentioned in the Army Act, it's a military flag. However, for the sake of knowledge, I would like to tell you that the most important flag in every country is the flag of war, because it is only the bearer of the sovereignty of the state. The national flag is a mark of belonging to a state. To remind you of 1914 and one very important battle – forsaking the Sava River in Srem near Cevrentija. When it comes to that battle, it will be said that a soldier wrapped his regiment's flag around his body so that he might not fall into the hands of the enemy. All units whose flags, regiments or brigades have fallen into the hands of the enemy have been disbanded. That question was settled in the Army Act. Yet, starting in the eighth century, there was no difference between national, sovereign or military flags. Only in the 18th and 19th centuries are they separated and it can be said, however, that military flags are standardised, such as standardised national and state flags. Our flag has a foundation in our tradition. However, when it comes to coat of arms, that's what the President of the Group of MPs has said, Serbia, we haven't gone as deep into our tradition as we should have, because we could have come, when it comes to the eagle, which is also a symbol in our coat of arms, to Nemanjic, and when it comes to the cross with four glasses, to Emperor Dusan. Our anthem has its historical basis and this law lays down the rules of its implementation. What's good about this law? It is good that there are, however, precise rules on the highlight of the symbols and their use, as well as sanctions for the misuse or incorrect use of these national features. I'd like to say that in the bill of law in article 25, Standart appears. Standarts are scheduled for the President of the Republic and for the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Standards belong to a group of specific flags. It's "ranking" or "status" flags, which have the most political personalities of a country. Similar flags exist in the army. However, this law did not lay down the rules of their emphasis and use, which I certainly think is a failure. On the other hand, the question arises whether this form of "ranking" or "status" flags should have been designed by this law at all? In this regard, we have also given amendments, because we believe that this will solve this issue in the simplest way. As for the rest, our objections were especially to criminal provisions and to the Art. 41st and 42nd, where criminal provisions are provided for incorrect use or misuse of state symbols, and in Article 42nd sentence for the use of damaged state symbols. We believe that, in addition to those monetary measures or fines, it is certainly necessary to provide for and compulsory confiscation of unadjusted or damaged state symbols in Article 42, so that the abuse of them could not be done on a continuous basis. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16838	I give my word to Mrs. Golden Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected by the public of Serbia, the NS considers this to be one of the most significant laws, however much he acts as a technical law at first sight. This is a law that we will support, first of all, because it brings us back to that ancient Serbian state, not to forget through the history of the Serbian people, that in those previous several Yugoslavias, which remained in our past, Serbia has brought the most, brought in people, territories, monarchy, its statehood, and that after all the unfortunate and unkind events it has come out with the least. This law, following government conclusions, after various government regulations, finally shows that Serbia is the state it should be. About the coat of arms, about the flag, there's been a lot of talk about the anthem. I'll just say a few words about the anthem, I consider it my obligation, I consider it an obligation of the Serbs of Vojvodina, above all from Somboro. What about the "God of Justice" anthem has to say, it's an anthem where some of the texts have been changed, it's an anthem that's adapted to new circumstances, but what's good and what we welcome, is to mention Serbian countries in the anthem, in the plural. Hymnu was written by Jovan Djordjevic, a Serb from Senta, who was at the studies in Pesta, in 1848, returned after the revolution, and in 1849, at the invitation of Isidor Nikolic Javer, a large Bačka mayor, was invited to Sombor to adjust his legal practice. The "God of Justice" anthem, then only as a song created in the heart of a Serb from Vojvodina, was created in my Sombor. Only much later did Slovenian Davorin Jenko write music on that song, and as all the great works can't come about by order, but they come from the soul, from the heart, that anthem accidentally outlived its creator from its time and how it should be with the anthem, it remained eternal. We hope that this law will outlive many convocations of the Assembly, that these symbols will live long, because Serbia deserves it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16840	Mr. Aleksandar Jugovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16841	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers, Parliament Speakers, the SPO was headed by a column of fighting for European values from 1990 to 2000. That's why we made the biggest sacrifices, we were the target of government, secret service, of all people who wanted Serbia to be taught to rule it more easily. We were the first to stand still in front of the two-headed eagle Nemanje, the first to sing anthem "God of Justice" and many in Serbia, which were blinded by an anthem "Hey Sloveni" opened their eyes because they did not know that Serbia was older than the five-pointed. We're, of course, happy about that, but that's why we've been persecuted, murdered, arrested, kicked out of work, and it's precisely from people who are now standing still in front of national markings and in front of the national anthem. The Bible says that one who repents is better than a thousand righteous ones. I guess that's how Serbia understood it, so we, the Orthodox, stayed in the minority, and those who didn't even repent, were rewarded. I say again, if it's in Serbia's interest, then it's a good thing it is. Almost two decades from the beginning of our struggle, this law was meant to take place in the congregation procedure. This proves the most progressive role of the SPO and the unequivocal truth that the path of the SPO programme is the path of Serbia's future. However, it is tragic that Serbia has to go through many years of peripetia to realize in the end that it is of interest to Serbia, what we were saying at the beginning. The coat of arms, the flag, the anthem bind us to tradition, but tradition in service of future perspectives and preservation of national identity and interest. The coat of arms, the flag and the anthem are the first step, and what follows? Here, for example. restitution. Very short and picturesque. In 1991, on the proposal of the SPI and DS Parliamentary Groups, the Law on the Return of SPC Buildings, Delegations, Legates, Residential Buildings and Building Land was passed. The President of the Republic returned the Law to the National Assembly for re-determination, with a reason to break some kind of 1958 law on building land. Of course, that law has never been restored to congregation procedure. If the property was then returned to the churches and monasteries at KiM, which was taken away by agrarian reform, usurpation, nationalisation, now would be owned by the SPC by 5,255 hectares of more property. So Albanians could not use kidnapped property as their own. Is that top national responsibility? The coat of arms, flag and anthem oblige us to prevent Serbia from dying south of Belgrade. If in Majornik, Crno Trava, Baja's Garden, Majdanpek, Kladova is 30 to 40 times less personal income per capita compared to the Belgrade municipality of Savac, I wonder if it is the same people, with the same anthem, with the same coat of arms, with the same flag. We need to regionalise Serbia for even regional development. All this tells us that the European principles of equal regional development must also be the principles of Serbia. As we knew the "God of Justice" in the '90s and stood still in front of the two-headed eagle, we now know what guidelines are for better, richer and stronger Serbia. Deeply trusting coalition partner – DS, as we did in the '90s, to show the world who we are and what we are, we found ourselves on the list "For European Serbia-Boris Tadic". Because of our common commitment to make strong Serbia, we decided to always tell the truth, even though it costs the most. I almost heard the thought of a famous politician, who says the beginning of his political career came when he began to advocate the truth. I answer to De Gaulle's words: "Politicians care about the mandate and statesmen care about generations." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16842	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16843	Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable fellow MPs, at the very beginning to say that the DSS Group will be proud to vote in favour of this law, because we believe that this country finally needs one law that defines what the flag, coat of arms and anthem looks like. The prerequisite to reach this law was the Constitution, which we adopted on "Mitrovdan" 2006 and was the basis of the 2004 Recommendation adopted by this Parliament on the use of these symbols. Now, once again, we will have clearly defined criteria for how our Serbian flag, our Serb coat of arms and our Serb anthem are used. I want to do a little dipression and say that this flag, that anthem and that coat of arms are the most beautiful flag, the most beautiful coat of arms and the most beautiful anthem in the world. What is not good today is the atmosphere, although the organizers of the transfer of the National Assembly to this building had the best possible intention, because it is not good when we discuss this law, that the law on behalf of the Government represents, with all due respect, the environment minister who has nothing to do with this law, i.e. it has something to do with us, the MPs, as citizens. I think the content of this law deserved, at the very least, the entire government to come here, and without any doubt, the prime minister of the Serbian government, Mr Cvetkovic. This suggests that some other symbols may cause more excitement in the hearts of some than symbols of their own state. That's what's not good. When we talk about our symbols, I want to say that state symbols have, above all, the goal of encouraging and strengthening national and national self-awareness, and that these are very important aspects of the adoption of this law, as well as of bringing us all together, and especially us who are in this House, undertake to respect our past. Many of us are proud of this past, and I think today is the place to say it – that Serbia, the Serbian people, have a lot of reason to be proud of their past, on the one hand, and on the other hand, these symbols, and the flag and coat of arms and anthem, oblige us to provide both justice and justice in our country, and thus provide a better and brighter future for our generations. Speaking of an anthem, she has already earned her place in the people, and the people have started singing it since the 1990s. In the text of the anthem, as well as the title of the anthem itself, there is a factual one folk experience, one faith in justice, in justice which is the foundation and foundation of the state, and as the people say, justice holds both the land and the cities. It is an obligation for anyone who sings that anthem to bear in mind that justice is and must be the foundation of our country and our society. In the end, people are mentioned here, said Zlata Djeric, co-worker of the John Djordjevic anthem, we mentioned Davorin Janko. I think it's a unique opportunity and a unique time to look back at those two personalities. They deserve to get into the stenogram. Jovan Djordjevic, a man who, as said here, was a Serb from Vojvodina, wrote that anthem in the 19th century. I should say, and I will read this, that Jovan Djordjevic was born on 13 November 1826 in Senta and died on 9 April 1900 in Belgrade, to come from the prominent family of Filip Djordjevic and is a significant citizen intellectual in the 19th century; a national worker, a father of the Serbian theatre, a historian, a literaryian, a professor of the Sabbath and Belgrade high school, a professor of general history at the Great School in 1888 and, of course, he wrote an anthem "God of Justice". Also, something interesting for Jovan Djordjevic, he was the born uncle of Stevan Sremac and influenced significantly both in the moral and intellectual and national sense of Stevan Sremec, and he deserved, among other things, what Stevan Sremac gave us. Serbia was a wide open society and many, in the 19th century, came to Serbia, when it was said that the Slovenians who saw Serbia as a "perjanica" struggle for freedom and fighting for justice, and what is important is the mark of our country, were coming, staying and leaving their tracks, including Davorin Jenko. Davorin Yenko was a national Slovenian, a musically educated man. He left a big lead on the expansion of our country's music culture in the 19th century. The highest recognition was given by Stevan Mokranjac, who said he was indeed one of the largest Slovenians who lived and worked in our premises, or in our country. In 1914 he died in Ljubljana, and by 1912 he lived in our country. His personal destiny has determined him to live in Slovenia for the last two years. He was very attached to the Serbian people, and if he hadn't been attached to the Serbian people, he wouldn't have been able to write such a beautiful tune on the words written by Jovan Djordjevic, which is our official anthem today. I would like to say that in his will in 1914, he gave all of his property and legacy to Serbian poor students, that he wrote his will to Cyrillic, however, since Slovenia was then under Austro-Hungarian, and this was happening in the scratches of the war between Serbia and Austria, that Austria then made all the contracts, and also those contracts of a personal nature, i.e. the estate contracts, declared invalid and that the will was not achieved, and that the problem was because Mr. Jenko wrote this will in Cyrillic. So, I think you've heard with great care that these two men deserve to be mentioned today in this assembly, and that once again, we should be proud to vote for this law, because coat of arms, flag and anthem are our identity mark, a sign to the outside world, and above all, by voting for these national symbols we take for future generations, for a better organized state, for the better and better life of our children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16844	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I give my word to Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with my undisclosed satisfaction and pride, I am taking part in this debate on the state symbols of the Republic of Serbia. I am truly happy and proud to vote for this coat of arms, for this flag and for this anthem, which represents the symbols of the sovereignty of our country. Today, in this debate, we had the opportunity to hear various heraldic interpretations, to call on the historical heritage, even an open division of monarchs and Republicans. We probably wouldn't be where we are today if we didn't find a cause for division and such a debate on every important issue. There are many countries in the world that today are non-monarchy, and have a crown, and Montenegro, and Russia, and Bulgaria, and Georgia, so here are Serbia, and Hungary. Of course, I can now speak of the heraldic meaning of this coat of arms, of symbols, of historical heritage. I can say that every field of this coat of arms is soaked with the blood of Serbian patriots, I can refer to the Serbian past, to history, to say whether this is a non-distant eagle or not, so I can remind you that there seems to be a non-distant eagle in the Virgin of the Left, what it looks like on the ring of Empress Theodore, the mother of Emperor Dusan, but I think it's much more important to remind you how many millions of people have died, known and unknown, because of this coat of arms and this flag, to ask ourselves what time and fate await in the future this coat of arms and this flag. Of course we remember and respect our past, but we create a future. It is true that thousands and millions of people died because of this coat of arms, known and unknown heroes, and we worship. Let's create a society and a country where this coat of arms will no longer be killed, where victory will no longer be won on the charge, but victory will be won by skill, knowledge, intelligence, intelligence. Let's all contribute together to a dignified debate in front of this coat of arms. Because yesterday's debate, I have to tell you who you've left with the SRS, has been watched by some people who don't live in this country, who are foreign diplomats. They find it astounding that someone is running, yelling, and resenting the adoption of these symbols. When we talk about these symbols, two very important issues have just opened up, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic said when the day will come to the mast in front of the European Parliament's building, the EU in Brussels will turn this flag. And it will indeed be a great day for Serbia when this flag, this flag, this coat of arms and these anthems will be heard when Serbia becomes an EU member. Some said, "Well, you won't be there." They didn't want the 1991 Red Star in the Champions League, they all wanted to drive her out, so she won first. Let's look up to the best representatives of our people, our society, and be first once. For that, of course, it takes style. Of course it is also necessary to ask when this anthem will be heard in Pristina, both in front of the Pećko Patriarchy and in front of the Decans. And it's a good question to ask those who were energetic opponents of this coat of arms and these anthems when they were in power. Of course, that question should also be asked by those who are responsible for not hearing this anthem, and this coat of arms and flags do not wind up in Pristina today. But let's not remember what, who, how much he contributed to it. Let's all join together to take this decisive step, and there is much more, which will lead Serbia finally to recognise that policy leading to this flag, this coat of arms and this anthem being respected and respected in the world, just as it was heard in 1912, 1914, 1918. Let us, together, all of us, find our place in front of all the established flags of the European states that are members of the European Parliament. Then we can say, as was said in 1918, and in 1936 -- indeed, the glory of the country of Serbia came back to life when we become a member of the EU. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16846	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. The Republic is owned by Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16847	I'll explain the reasons for the replica. The presentation of Mr. Milivojevic looks like that cartoon in which the judge says what it is forbidden to do, and one of the fighters does it – it is forbidden under the belt, and the one hits the one under the belt. So, Mr. Milivojevic, let's not talk about what happened, and you talk about what happened and you accuse others of everything that happens to Serbia. Yeah, you don't play anthem in Pristina, but it's not just one thing, it's everyone's fault. Part of the responsibility for these nine years is for you to take over. Since 2001, you've been one of the quickest distances from KIM. You didn't care until two years ago. You spoke – Europe has no alternative. Your president spoke - I am not optimistic, rather Kosovo will be independent, but within Serbia. Don't go all the way to the others. When you mention those who died for these symbols or other symbols of Serbia, they were killed for those symbols when NATO bombed. It was not justified for you to die then in the fight against NATO that attacked Serbia. Don't invite us to wisdom, reason, cooperation and harmony. You'll have them around the symbols, even though we all have some objections. I don't object to you, I just told whoever suggested what else was supposed to have in mind when he gave us a proposal for these symbols. I don't object. I will vote for these symbols, in order for Serbia to move forward. But you continue to encourage what is sometimes completely shared by us and not to cooperate, even on such issues. In this debate, there was no place to mention other parliamentary groups that were once in power when it didn't suit you, when you weren't ready enough, capable enough, when the people didn't want you in power enough, so then all the sins happened and it was completely wrong, and you can't make it right now. I'm telling you there was no good in the Ahtisaari-Charnomidin Agreement, no good in the Kumanian Agreement, but it was brought by the Assembly in some way, most of the votes. Some of them who voted then and are now members of your coalition, don't forget, at least two parties who voted to accept the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Agreement are in your coalition. Why don't you blame them for what happened back then, but for those who are in opposition right now? I repeat, we need unity, and maybe we don't need to forcely spread it, but when we talk about history, it's all clear, and when we talk about the signs that we all need, there's no reason to transfer anything else, because otherwise this debate can take a very long time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16848	He has the word Mr. Milivojevic, too, replica You were talking about cartoons in Parliament. [[Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: How is this a replica on replica?]] Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16849	I will not, indeed, Mr. Nikolic, replicate to you in a way that will further open any controversy in this room. I understand your handicap, because you didn't beat Boris Tadic in the presidential election, and of course you didn't hear the messages he sent at the time to the voters, because at the time we had a campaign for the president of Serbia. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I didn't talk about Boris Tadic. () Yes, you said that we are saying that we are giving up Kosovo. Boris Tadic in her presidential campaign, as well as the DS, made it clear that we will never give up on Kosovo or on the road to the EU. And we are implementing that policy, clearly, and that policy is recognizable to the voters and citizens of this country. I apologize if anyone is offended in this room by my previous exposure, especially you, because you weren't most of the debate when others were speaking, because I had the opportunity to point to certain gaps in their speeches through my discussion. It's not really my intention to open up the controversy. It's an important topic, it's about the symbols that we have to bring, and I think we need to express unity at least for these symbols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16850	He's got the word, Mr. Chikiriz. You have no right to a replica, nothing was offensive. [[Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I want a replica.]] Mr. Chiquiriz, please. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I want to speak after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) After the injury of the Rules of Procedure, he has the word Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16851	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it really doesn't make sense to let us go here selectively for this pay phone. If Mr. Milivojevic had no right to get a replica on the line, then I have no right either. But if you let him go, and it's under such a sinister comment that I was talking about cartoons, then let me say what I have to say in my own way. He had no right to a replica. I replicated to him, and the Rules of Procedure, once and for all, abolished it forever. After you let me go, I will answer you for a short while – yes, I lost those presidential elections, but from that result I achieved, confidently, your pants are shaking today! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16852	I'd ask you to tell me in the future which member is injured while you're advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Chiquiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16853	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we in the SPO estimate that this is one of the most important dates in Serbia's recent history and that this session should have a solemn and solemn character. I will try in my discussion, with a lot of understanding for all our differences and all our wanderings, to make an argument to the SPO, which is why we will vote for the proposed law. Of course, we might have some objections. If the crown is a symbol of the kingdom, and it's on the coat of arms, and it's not mentioned in the anthem, then there's no logic. My discussion won't go that way. The SPO believes that state symbols are the expression of the people's spirit and culture and that there is no state without them. Supporting the bill on the use of coat of arms, flags and anthem, in this truly significant day, and I think it is important for our political party, because with the support of most MPs in the House of the National Assembly of the SPO, it fulfils one of its programme definitions that is already 19 years old. I will try to point out, according to us, the most significant historical reasons for supporting the adoption of these laws, and we think it is necessary, from time to time, to restore our historical consciousness, because we, with our crown thousands of years ago, became one of the role models of the then civilized world and that then Serbian neimism is now at the top of the world's cultural heritage. Serbia is an old European country. As early as the ninth century, Serbian rulers had their national symbols and a sign. Exactly what most speakers pointed to, symbols and signs have been changing over time, but there is one common thread to which I will point. The oldest sign of the Serbian flag was recorded in 1078 when Zeetic Prince Mihajlo asked the pope to send him discipline and cloak as a sign of royal dignity. During the entire millennium, Serbs pointed out their state signs, not counting, of course, only the period of Turkish rule and the period of one-party dictatorship, in which in the tanks of the red army, the ideological troupe of the Bolshevik religion of Siberian gulages violently replaced the eternal symbols of Serbian statehood with ideological. It only happened to us once in history. The most common form of medieval Serbian flags is a triangulation with one or two feathers, while the colour varies. The flag of King Vladislav, mentioned in 1281, had two colors that the current flag had, which are red and blue. King Uros and King Stefan Decansky also used flags containing yellow, green, and orange. 17 years ago, a referendum on this topic was organised in Serbia, and it was meant for citizens to determine state symbols, but the referendum failed because it did not mature awareness in citizens, and above all in political parties. The flag was then removed from the five-pointer as an ideological, force-imposed symbol, because it was decided by the Serbian Parliament by respecting the citizens' mood. The mood of citizens at the time was not respected in terms of coat of arms and anthem, although the mood of citizens was more than visible in public events. To the official anthem, citizens whistled and sang the forbidden "God of Justice" anthem. Seeking his coat of arms, it is then proposed either to return the coat of arms of the Kingdom of Serbia, or to return the coat of arms of the Prince Vladislav, or to the coat of arms of the Serbian Principality, which is also the proposal of this law. The two-headed eagle's motive appears very early in 1190. Since then, all Germans and part of the owner have used the two-headed eagle as a symbol of government, as well as national flight and national power. The two-headed eagle also appears on the flag of Emperor Stefan Dusan in 1339 on the walls of Skopje, and the permanent heraldic mark becomes 1402 during the rule of the Stefan Lazarevic despot. Serbia's 1882 coat of arms, which we will adopt as a state mark, is the first and only coat of arms that is heraldically composed and defined by Serbian heraldic father Stojan Novakovic and made up of two important heraldic continents. It is the first figure of the white two-headed eagle in flight, with the golden crown of Nemanjic, which symbolically rests on medieval non-distant tradition. The second is a silver honorable cross with four silver glasses in the field of red shield, which symbolizes loyalty to Christ's teaching and to the Serbian nation. The heraldic solution was also taken over by Karadjordjevici by 1918. The declaration of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia complements the symbols of Croats and Slovenians in the shield. This shows his multiethnicity, and two hiding places have been removed, and such symbols are present today in this high House of the National Assembly, and we meet with them daily. That's what the coat of arms looked like until 1946, until in a one-party dictatorship the totalitarian regime imposed a coat of arms with glasses, a class and a five-pointer. Anthemnologists estimate the Serbian anthem "God of Justice" one of the most beautiful national anthems, which is an anthem that sings about God and justice. The writer of the text Jovan Djordjevic, of whom many MPs spoke with great respect today, and the music author Slovene Davorin Jenko, who did much for the Serbian people and who left a significant mark in our culture, not only because of this anthem, but also 127 years ago were particularly inspired to create this work of art, because they caused a lofty sense of belonging to the royal people who prayed to God to preserve his kin. The moral obligation requires us to remember today all those who, under the crown of Nemanjic, with the Serbian tricolor and the "God of Justice" anthem, defended the country in the Liberation Wars, spread its borders and introduced the country among countries that made it a more advanced part of the world. We should also remember all those who, after 1945, paid too much of their loyalty to Serbian winning history with property, civil rights and life, written in a wise state-of-the-art strategy that we are returning to ourselves these days. The social arrangements of time change, but among the people who hold on to themselves, who remember their past, they are proud of their ancestors, their nation, they do not change the national traits regardless of the state order. New national features should have new states. The old state features should have old countries like the state of Serbia. Serbia returns to itself, its tradition, and corrects another major injustice by restoring state traits. You won't mind me saying that today as vice president of the SPO, first of all, I would like to congratulate the citizens of Serbia for correcting a great historical injustice, but also that part of the citizens who gave it seems to me to be the biggest contribution, which are members of the SPO. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16854	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. I give my word to MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16855	Dear citizens of Serbia, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is good that the state of Serbia will receive a law on state symbols. Of course, it's better to have the law than just a recommendation or a constitutional solution that's not binding. As Parliament Group President Forwards said, Serbia-Serbian Progressive Party Mr Tomislav Nikolic, our parliamentary group will vote for this law, although we are not too happy with the solutions given. I think it's two modified solutions, first of all when it comes to the coat of arms and when it comes to the anthem. This isn't the authentic coat of arms of Germany, this is practically a three-dinasties buildup. I remind you that the coat of arms of Nemnjević was adopted by one of the Serbian rulers, Đuradž Kastriotic, whom the Albanians took in, and now he is their national hero named Đurađ Kastriot. It's a historical untruth, except his coat of arms was exactly the same as the minor, but the black color. So I think it was better to adopt such an authentic coat of arms, but this is also a solution that is kind of acceptable to us. As far as the anthem is concerned, the words "king" and the words "Serbian countries, Serbian gender" were inserted. Maybe it's appropriate at this point, but it's still a modified case. In any case, since our party is not a monarchist, we cannot be against this solution, because by the very name of the "Serbian country" it reminds us of both the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, which is basically a Serbian country and the Republic of the Serbian Krajina. In some parts of the law, for example, Article 2 speaks of it being applied in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We have responded to amendments asking that only the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia can be used in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, except, of course, foreign flags and anthems when it comes to international visits or international manifestations. What exactly is this about? It's about Kosovo and Metohija. We have a situation that in Kosovo and Metohija, except in Serb enclaves, or in Serbian ghettos, no symbol, no symbol of the state of Serbia, but symbols of so-called. false countries of Kosovo. That's the problem, and that's why it was meant to be defined by this law. We are also not the happiest flag of the AP Vojvodina, which is more than one combination of the EU flag and the Serbian flag, but much more of the EU flag. If that flag contained the coat of arms of Serbia, then we could accept it as a truly Serbian flag, this is what it looks like to me as the flag of another state rather than the works of the Republic of Serbia. And when it comes to Article 2, there is also a question of a member of the Constitution that says that national minorities are also guaranteed the use of symbols. Yes, of course, it should be, but why is this law not regulated to lower Serbian flags when raising Albanian, Cypriot flags in Presevo, Medvedji and Bujanovac? That's the biggest problem, no one has a problem with winding up and spreading the Cypriot flags where most are, but why then take down Serbian flags, because it is and will always be part of Serbia. These are only some objections to Article 79 and Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates it, i.e. Article 2. It is also said that international events happening in Serbia play Serbian anthem and highlight the symbols of the Serbian state. It's incomplete. We had to supplement that, we reacted to our amendments, and I hope that it would be adopted, and that the law would be more complete. What will we do when the Serbian team or representative of Serbia wins in any sport, collectively or individually? It's not regulated by this law, and I think we need to supplement that member of the law, and it's about Article 36. So it is necessary to insert the 3rd position that will talk about the Serb anthem and the Serbian flag being raised when the Serbian team in any sport or Serb individual wins a gold medal in any sport in the country or abroad. It may seem trivial to someone, but it's really important. Third, as you know, everywhere in the world, even if officials, and most citizens of those countries, when the national anthem is intonated, hold their right hand at heart. We have proposed this by our amendment, because we think it is appropriate that if not all Serbian citizens, even though Serbian officials express their love and respect for their country by putting their right hand on the heart. For example, Orthodox citizens can put three fingers and others, which are atheists or members of other religions, could or should put their right hand on the heart in respect of the state of Serbia. I think that should have been complemented in this law. One more thing I'm going to react to, and I've responded with the amendment, it's a member of the 33rd of this law, which predicts where everything can't be used by the flag and the coat of arms. It's curtains, blankets, blankets, mats, etc. We are witnessing that many flea markets and many shops sell towels with Serbia's coat of arms and the flag of Serbia. I think it is really inappropriate to wipe legs or hands with a flag or with the coat of arms of Serbia. This is one attitude I added to Article 33 of the amendment, and I hope this law will be more complete and better. Thank you for your attention and understanding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16856	Thank you, Mr. Pelevic. Among those reported for the word regarding a principled search that is under way there are no more entries for the word. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? The word is Mrs. Ragush. Mrs. Ragush, you haven't even used your time as a representative of the parliamentary group and your parliamentary group has 68 minutes left. The session of the Transport and Connection Committee will be held today, so on Thursday, April 2nd, at 14pm, at Hall II at the National Assembly Press Centre. Here you go, Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16857	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, thank you. Before I go on display, I think someone forgot their glasses, so I guess that someone's gonna pick up their glasses. Mr. Milivoevich, if you think you're going to lose your response to your exposure, I assure you you won't. So what is the essence of this whole story and what will be the essence of all our exposure, i.e. Most likely mine, during all these days, is a concrete argumentary tale calling for a certain source. In 2002, a man who didn't deserve the end he deserved, because no one normal can look forward to someone's death, responsibility in this country and in this society and this people should be brought to elections, criminal responsibility to the judicial institutions. So, in 2002, Mr Zoran Djindjic wrote the following when he spoke about the history of the national struggle of Serbs, among other things, he said: "The main culprit for this was the international relations that broke the ambitions of a small Balkan nation that sought its place under the European sun, but there were also its own faults, primarily the inability to formulate a clear national project and to gather all the forces around it. "Today many things are very similar to earlier occasions, and internal divisions and lack of true citizenship, widespread poverty, weak institutions, a tendency to populism, with one great difference, Mr. Milivojevic, today the international environment is the first time in history on the side of our ambitions. If we don't make it today, the only reason we're alone. We're both a problem and a solution. That's what the former president of your party said. As you can see, I am not only reading the works of Vojislav Seselj, I am really reading the works of all those who have recorded and marked the Serbian political scene. When you answer the subject of calling for the totalitarian system that you have brought down, you should bear in mind that this is the year 2009, that in 2000 you promised the people systemic reform, and that, as we can see, there is no "s". What is even more important, Mr Milivojevic, and it also motivated me, and it continues to continue on what I am exhibiting, also concerning the Pećko Patriarchy and the High Decana, which the Serbian public very little knows about, we believe that the meeting of the Security Council was held on 23 March 2009. At first I won't tell you who it is, I'll just quote what that man said at that session: "Tomorrow, March 24th, there will be 10 years since the start of NATO bombing my country. I would like to remind you that this tragic event, which lasted for 78 days, was not approved by this body. During a three-month period where cities and villages were killed and bombed every day, two and a half thousand civilians were killed, including 89 children and 12 and a half thousand injured. Of course, this number of victims does not include those who were subsequently exposed to leukemia and other dangerous and lethal diseases caused by poored uranium. As a result of a total of two thousand and three hundred air strikes on all Serbia, 148 buildings and 62 bridges were destroyed, while 300 schools, hospitals, too, and other public buildings were destroyed. Not to mention 176 cultural buildings. "Let's move on, this is going a little slower because the text in the original English language, the Serbian state did not bother to translate this speech, as well as the stenogram from this session into Serbian, so now the Serbian public is listening exclusively to you, I translate directly. So we were collectively accused, and then collectively bombed, and it was claimed that in fact because 800,000 ethnic Albanians were expelled, or expelled from KIM. As a result of the tragic war, the establishment of an international administration and an exodus of about 200,000 ethnic Serbs from the KIM territory. I would also like to mention that 10 years later, Serbs are being punished, again by bombs, by mass banishment from KIM territory, and in return, Albanians have received their independent state. Mr. Milivojevic, in 1998, the SRS entered the "Government of National Unity", just for these reasons. What we were doing back then was the result of terrorist attacks on innocent civilians and not only on Serbs, but also on Albanians who were loyal to the Serbian state. The anti-legal action, the rampage of NATO was called "A Merciful Angel", which did not hit Slobodan Milosevic at the time, but really killed innocent children, women, bombed schools, hospitals, cemeteries. On this point, Mr Milivojevic, President Boris Tadic speaks at the Security Council meeting on 23 March 2009 and in return he gets a hold of the US diplomat, or ambassador to the UN and the British, who reminds him as DS presidents -- do not play with it, because KIM is independent and it is a irrevocable fact, and because Martti Ahtisaari's plan is being implemented in Kosovo. In 2009, Mr. Boris Tadic, as president of the Serbian state, as president of the DS, as a man who ran the campaign by cleaning Serbia from radicals, who constantly respected us to call for wars, although we said we should fight peaceful, diplomatic, legal and political means to protect the human rights of Serbs who were expelled from the former territories, where they lived centuries ago, this same man is in the position in which we were in March 1999, Mr. Milivojevic. What he got in response, and you'll hear later, from the ambassadors of Great Britain and the United States is the answer we got back then, and then there was the "merciful angel." Why? Imagine, the Serbs have dared to say - no, we do not give any part of our territory and we will protect the people from terrorist attacks. If this were true, it's not just the sources of a close SRS, it's not even important what I'm saying, you have a fantastic fact by Mrs. Helen Ranta. Let me remind you, she was the chief forensics officer and she said that NATO aggression was based on a fined report, forced by Mr. Walker. So, this statement itself, her autobiographical book knocks down even the admiration of the American and British administration and gives us as a Serbian state a fantastic argument to fight in the best possible way, to make KiM a sovereign part of the territory. This, of course, Mr. Milivojevic, does not mean that I want controversy with you, in terms of who's better, stronger, bigger, more valuable patriot or patriot. I just want to remind you of the facts, what many before you have tried and failed, because the "greater Albania" project is several centuries old. The very idea of a successor to Disrael’s politics is now being implemented. So history repeats itself regularly in these places. What is expected of all of us and what the people have given us in the amanet is to be wise, to learn lessons from historical mistakes and move on. I warn you, and as a certain part of the professional public has had the opportunity to see the live session of the Security Council, it is a very serious situation. Just because your president came to our positions, he found himself in a situation where some "merciful angel" could happen again, because as we hear both Croatia and Albania have been admitted into NATO membership. So we know that it's not easy for you and we know that this isn't a situation for killing political points in this way, but you can't expect us to suffer calling for some of our mistakes, some of our failures just for two years in the Government of National Unity. Mr. Milivojevic, is there really someone in this room who thought we didn't pay for the election? We did. We had a problem telling our membership and proving that we were in a coalition with people we were angry with, who were jailed by our president and paid for it in the election. You will pay, too, in the election of all your mistakes and leave it where it is, but don't read certain incorrect data. It's just not true, Mr. Milivoevich. But let's go back to what the subject is here and now, and these are state symbols, such as flag, coat of arms and anthem. I thank the ruling majority for the opportunity for the SRS to speak a few words on the subject, which we think is very important and that we think represents the face and appearance of a nation of a state. It's a Christian post, ladies and gentlemen, in progress. Serbia is approaching one of the most important Christian holidays, such as Easter. The church itself, the SPC, is woven into the very essence of the Serbian people and represents one of the most important symbols when it comes to us. This, of course, is also the "God of Justice" an anthem, which is indeed a special kind of prayer, because most often the Serbian people could only rely on the very justice of God and on which ally. The latest events have convinced us in the end by who knows which time it is our traditional allies, and who are those who see Serbia as a small pasaluk, who see Serbia reduced to pre-commence borders, who depriving one nation of the right to face, face, name and name, pride and dignity, to letter, to culture, to symbols. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we had the opportunity to hear at the Security Council session that KIM will not be Serbian, that there are no Serb laws on KIM, but the laws of Mr Marty Ahtisaari. What could be read further is that Serbs who have been expelled from their centuries-old hearths should not even think about coming back, because there is no safe life for them. But what we can't hear is the answer from the Serbian government, the representative is there, I hope that during today's session he will do us the right thing – when? When will the flag in Pristina turn? When will the beautiful two-headed non-distant eagle stand where it belongs and when will the "God of Justice" bring back all those that the Ship's terrorists have expelled? Once again, how small does Serbia need to be, so it shouldn't be big? These are the questions we expect today, with Mr Milivojevic, again, noting that this really isn't the time, you started the story, and now I'm trying to bring her into normal frames for these political points, but I can't answer the subject of the solemn session and the solemn atmosphere. I'm not prone, conditionally speaking, to epic moments, but you can see on your shirt is a character of a man and most often I see ridicule in other colleagues because of how we're dressed. That man is the president of the SRS and is a symbol of resistance to mondialysm. Because of this resistance, he spent six years in The Hague, only because he recognized the group in crime, predicted what was waiting for Serbia and simply finally welcomed him in The Hague. The indictment was written in Belgrade, and as Carla del Ponte says, unfortunately, "your president once said - take him away and don't bring him back"! So whenever you see a Serbian radical coming back to Dr. Seselj, you will see a symbol of resistance, everything that enters into Serbia's national interest. We're really convinced that most of this guy's shirt bothers the British and American ambassadors. We expected that, as you can see, when I say that no man deserves the end that the Serbian prime minister deserves in Serbia, and we will find out, time will show who is really behind it, who was interested, Serbia is not, I say. We humans on your part have never heard the protection of our dignity, that you tell Mr. UK Ambassador Dragan Todorovic is not a man named beard and badge, so he calls it on his blog, that he cannot interfere with the Serbian political scene by saying that we belong to the past, looking forward to the cleavage that he created, just too ousted, as if his plan had failed to the end. Or, if we had heard from you that you were telling the US ambassador -- you can't, it's against diplomatic bonton, that you are thus interfering with the Serbian political scene. Let's be the worst, let's be the most retrograde forces, someone has chosen us. We are in this assembly, and if you want to build such a future, so that we can all gather together and defend Serbia, you will have in us conversators and fighters, we will protect Tadic when The Hague looks for him. He's close, given the last one. We will not give it, like any patriot and every patriot. There's a difference, Mr. Milivoevich, between you and us. But here's what we can do with you and you can count on us as partners only if you experience us that way, only if you experience us that way. It's a sad picture. He doesn't have the strongest opposition party. I'm not saying we're sinless, I'm not talking about it at all. I'm talking about the fact that we've been kidnapped from our mandates, that we haven't been returned and that the democratic government has failed this exam. If there were any irregularities with the resignations, even if some of them were clean, you fell, you failed. You even betrayed Zoran Djindjic's legacy. I don't see any T-shirts with his face, for example. As we treat the family of your former president, Zoran Djindjic, God does not allow a woman to be in the place of Rose Djindjic and his family, God does not give! But Dr. Seselj has a family, too. When did any of you ask? When did the Hague Office or the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal finally convince us that there was mutual co-operation, so he asked those children to grow up without a father or that woman to bear the burden of growing up in Serbia? Do you know what life in Serbia is like for war crimes suspects in front of The Hague tribunal, not just Dr. Seselj, but for all those who have only done what you are now slowly trying to do and are in the minefield? This time, indeed, I can say to all my colleagues from the ruling coalition for European Serbia, God forbid someone comes after you by big international families, and I'll be the first to protect you until the last one, because somewhere you need to draw a line and somewhere you need to stop and move forward. What we see is a terrible and monstrous plan to break up Serbia and all that is Serbian. It's not easy for you, but maybe it's a topic for another story. To return to the Serb symbols. The national symbols of a nation can be classified as basic and derived. The basics are flag, coat of arms and anthem. About the Serbian flag, Laza Kostic wrote a special brochure, while on the issue, the coat of arms points to a basic study by Aleksandar Solovev. The most thorough study on Serbian coat of arms was written by Aleksandar Solovev and published in 1958 in Australia in the edition of Serbian emigration. Imagine, it took more than 40 years for the book to be printed in Serbia. Solov's state coat of arms is considered a sacred sign which is the entrenched idea of the homeland, the idea for which an individual should live, for which he is willing to die. The issue of coat of arms and flags is seen as a problem of state legal and historical legal science. Since the 12th century, the coat of arms in the European herald has been an inherited royal symbol, but the roots have been drawn from, and then the prince's crown has actually been returned to the top of the coat of arms. As regards the heraldic origin of the two-headed eagle, and here today we have had the opportunity to hear several very interesting presentations of fellow MPs, but most often it is considered to be the original symbol of Emperor Constantine, which he marked Roman rule over the East and the West. But Solovev thinks he only appeared in the 11th century as an adornment on court clothes, that he would later become a imperial emblem. The very mark of a two-headed eagle is bound to its origins to the Asian people. He is the fruit of an Eastern imagination that he likes to create in his beliefs and in his art fantastic deities, animals, sphinxes, lions and bulls, many heads and many hands of divinity. The two-headed eagle also appears in the Sumerians probably as a symbol of Gilgamesh or the sun's deity, and later in Egypt, Ethiopia, Babylon, so 2,500 years before Christ, and so on. In later times, a two - head eagle is present on Saracen coat of arms, from which crusaders carried it to Western European spaces. Serbs and Russians have taken over the two-headed eagle from the Byzantine tradition that replaced the former Roman one-headed, since the time of Julius Caesar, as a symbol of Zeus' reigning power. On Serbian frescoes, the oldest golden two-headed eagles are seen on the red cloak of the great prince Miroslav, Nemanja's brother, painted on the walls of St. Peter's and Paul's church near the White Field. The two-headed eagle is then on the seal of Miroslav's son Andrija, printed on a contract signed with the Dubrovnikers. He is also present on the clothes of King Stefan the First in the freshness of Zic monastery, as well as on the red cloak of King Radoslav, on the freshness of the monastery of Studenica. After that, the two-headed eagle is present on the ring of Queen Theodore, the wife of Stefan Decanski, whose mousse is located, Mr. Milivojevic, in the High Decaves, and who you can hardly bow down to, just when you want it, because some foreign people need to determine whether you are welcome in the High Decane. Let me get back to the subject. At the time of Emperor Dusan, it is already the most significant sign of the Serbian ruler present on the emperor's flags. For the first time on a coin, he shows up on the Despot John Oliver coin. Since the time of the Serbian Empire, almost every great man has worn on his royal eagle’s solemn suit, especially if he has a high court rank. In the true sense of words, ladies and gentlemen, as a heraldic sign, the two-headed eagle is rooted at the time of the Despot Stefan Lazarevic, especially on his shield and money. Brankovics kept a partially two-headed eagle, but the primate gave a lion, as their own symbol. The Byzantine state in the last phase of existence has increasingly used the two-headed eagle as an official sign. This eagle later became like the coat of arms of Orthodox Russia, the heirs of Byzantium. The two-headed eagle was also accepted by the Crnojevic family, as well as by the Serb despots in Ugar, the Montenegrin Metropolitan of Sava in 1743, on its seal cutting the old Serbian two-headed eagle, restoring the Montenegrin state-of-the-art tradition. After the Kingdom was declared on February 22nd, June 12, 1882, the law established its coat of arms. The coat of arms of the Kingdom of Serbia is a two-headed white eagle, on a red shield with a crown of the kingdom. The top of both heads of the two-headed eagle stands the crown royal, and beneath each claw a flower of the clan. On his chest is the coat of arms of the Kingdom of Serbia, a white cross on a red shield with one fire in each corner of the cross. The coat of arms is covered with a purple hermelin cloak, with a royal crown on top. Following the declaration of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, the Council of Ministers prescribed a new form of coat of arms in 1919, by keeping the two-headed eagle on the chests Serbian and receiving the Croatian chess room, and at a speedy conclusion in Slovenia, of three six-pointed stars of the Counts of Cell and alleged Ilirian Half Moon. The communists abolished the coat of arms and prescribed new, federal and republican ones, according to the Soviet model, by keeping Serbia a shield with glasses but without an honorable cross. Solovev also writes that almost all Slovenian flags stem from Russia's large tricolour. It is believed that for Emperor Petra the inspiration was the Dutch flag from his second route, but he gave the Russian thigh an original expression, so the Imperial flag of white-blue-red was first solemnly prominent when visiting the Russian naval squadron Carigrad in 1699 on warships. In addition to his official state, he introduced a white flag with Andrija's cross. Both Russian flags were divided into Montenegrins during the stay of Russian squadron Admiral Senjavina in Boka Kotorska in 1806. At the request of Prince Miloš, says Solovev, in October 1835, the sultan's pherman was circumcised to the Serbian people by a three-boy flag with horizontal stripes: red, blue, white. The three colors have already been known to the Serbian people, because they are Russian national colors, only set in reverse order. When it comes to the Serbian anthem, the solemn songs in many peoples of the ages have been expressed with suggestive almost magical power, as a concentrated expression of patriotic, nationalist or religious emotions. The harmony of poetry and music, the message and the rhythm in which it is expressed, have a difficult explanation of the mysterious fact for those who approach it with their hearts, identify and feel love. The hymn seems even stronger than the coat of arms and the flag. Every intonation of the anthem is solemn in itself. A factor in creating a special mood, pride, flight and enthusiasm. The hymn is a song whose own beauty is not the only and superior goal. It is aimed at realising a political interest, so it is also a means of political struggle, mobilization, stimuli, spiritual inspiration, encouragement, creative potentials and giving birth to a willingness to sacrifice, establishing an additional link between generations. Their strongest cohesion factor is to manifest the idea of national unity and historic mission. It strives to become an impenetrable, nadistoral and metaphysical category. We really hope that this generation, the Serb political generation, will be able to release the Serbian anthem in the Serbian KIM, and we sincerely thank you from the ruling coalition that we are talking about today. An anthem's tune is expected to be receptive to the heart, mind, imagination and hearing, to be full of symbols, yet unflammable. It should have March's regularity and wear, however, it must not suppress words. In order to become a general song, an anthem's tune must be carved into the ear and consciousness along with words, painlessly and permanently, such as facial pines and chins on the forehead. The first Serbian song of the hymn character "Vojsta Serbi" sang in 1804, Dositej Obradovic, inspired and heroic by the First Serbian Uprising. Somewhere at the same time, perhaps earlier, was created the most popular Serbian solemn song, an anthem with the world of Savi, whose authorship has never been reliably established, only it is known that its first version was sung in the church language of Slovenia. The composer, Cornelia Stankovic, who professionally formed and processed her melodies in 1858, considered it a folk song. In 1860, Novosadjan Luka Saric sang the song "Oh Serbia's Dear Mother", which gained enormous popularity, and the official Serbian anthem declared Nedic's regime in occupied Serbia. At the request of Prince Milan Obrenovic, the director of the National Theatre in Belgrade, Mr. JovanĐordjevic wrote the drama "Mark's Sabre" and within it an anthem "God of Justice", for which music was composed by Davorin Yenko. The song quickly became very popular in the Serbian people, and in 1882, due to Milan's enthronement for the Serbian king, Djordjevic reworked the text, so his version became the first official version. During World War I, two more Serbian patriotic hymn songs emerged. Stanislav Binski composed "Mars na Drin", which in conditions of the communist dictatorship quickly became a favorite of the Serbian people, as an expression of undeniable pride and renewed defiance. Miloj Popovic only wrote a text for the tune in 1965. The song "There Far Away" was spontaneously sung, which cut its solemn and vow tone into the consciousness of many generations of Serbian patriots. Unofficially, almost spontaneously, the accepted anthem of the communist Yugoslavia was the ceremony song "Hey Slovenije", which was created during the wake of the Pan-Slovenian national and Romantic great-state consciousness in a circle of Catholic Slovenian peoples, which certainly represents a characteristic historical paradox. In 1834, Slovak Samuel Tomashik expressed his idealized vision of general Slovenian unity and freedom, motivated by the predominantly difficult position of his own people in Hungarian slavery. Tomasik's lyrics are adapted to the old Polish tune "Not yet Poland has failed, while we live" from 1777. In addition to Slovakia, the song "Hey Slovenije" was enthusiastically accepted by Czechs and Poles, and then almost all other Slovenian peoples. As an anthem, it was first performed at the first Slovenian congress in Prague in 1848. The rest was recorded when Hungarian authorities arrested a large Serbian national fighter and prominent panslavist Svetozar Miletic in 1876. The Buddhism state prosecutor, cousin of Samuel Tomasik, committed suicide so as not to be the realizer of a directed trial, which, by the way, was sentenced by a Serb patriot to five years in prison. So, already in 1839, the Slovenian anthem was sung in Serbian by prominent writer and high-level Serbian politician, Pan-Slovenian orientation Paula Stamatovic and published in Almanac "Serb Bee". Each subsequent translation, or song, had its specifics, so that the anthem was sung in different versions. Between the two world wars, the song "Hey Sloveni" was accepted as a falcon anthem, but in Poland and as a state, with amended lyrics. The period of several decades of communist dictatorship was also filled with a constant search for a new official anthem that would celebrate the titoistic ideology, while "Hey Sloveni" was officially considered to have a temporary character. On several occasions, failed public or invitation competitions were called. After the break-up of Yugoslavia, the impromptu adoption of the SRJ Constitution, the ceremony song "Hey Slovenije" was first appointed as an anthem of the Yugoslav state, although significantly shortened and reduced to Serbian-Montenegro. The collapse of communism and the failure of a Yugoslav experiment prompted the restoration of Serbia's national consciousness, pride and tradition. The establishment of parliamentary democracy and a multi-party system has accelerated the rejection of rigid ideological prejudices, so the old Serbian anthem "God of Justice", has ignored, forgotten and banned for decades, stood up in the full strength of its heroic instinct and celebrated ideals, justice and freedom. With very small changes in the text, by ousting the prince, or king, as a notional and political anachronism, it became the official anthem of Republika Srpska. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the author of this part of the text is Dr. Vojislav Seselj, who wrote about this in his book, which was created in The Hague's "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism". As you can see, when removed from the context of this word, they can get a completely different meaning and sound. In full context, however, they paint a man who, regardless of his political and ideological attitude, respects tradition, respects culture, respects history. So he was talking here about the history of Serbian national symbols, without having to qualify them in one way or another, because they are an integral part of the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. Since the SRS Parliamentary Group, even if those people, my colleagues who have signed up to speak, has been denied the decision of the chairman to attend this regular session, I will read on their behalf the parts they have prepared, and they seem to be significant and important for this topic. I use the opportunity of the present minister, even with even one qualification, I know that Mr. Dulic is a man who is prone to knowledge and knowledge and who I would like to give the book "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism", in which he can learn a lot about Serbian symbols, perhaps sometimes needed, and frankly, I don't even care that he's not qualified for this topic, there is a Serbian government, and we expect that he has taken some responsibility and that he will find the right answers to questions that I will ask him on behalf of fellow non-EU colleagues. So, Mr. Dragan Stevanovic says, the proposed law in the chapter – Penalties, does not foresee penalties for those who do not highlight national symbols in the days and at a time when, and now, this law foresees. Penalties are for those who abuse insigns or use them inadequately, but for those who do not use them at all there are no criminal measures. It is, in fact, the government's relationship to national symbols and our national values. In all the countries in the environment, for example Bulgaria, in every village or village where there is a state institution, so, schools, kindergartens, infirmarys, you have national symbols. In Serbia, in the middle of Belgrade, you do not have a Serbian flag on state institutions without talking about the interior. What my colleague Stevanovic specifically looks at and draws attention to is a member of the 8th law, which is important in the following context: In the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, Mr Minister, it is not rare for Serbian state institutions to remove Serbian flags and place Albanian flags. We believe you know that. This is especially happening on flag day in Albania, when Cypriot extremists place an Albanian flag on municipal administration buildings in Presevo and Bujanovac. I ask the minister, is the reason for such an indolent reaction by the authorities to these events a matter of political concept and a conditionality of the Mondialist or an analytical definition of the executive authority in Belgrade, or a technical lack of legal regulation? Will this law ensure that the constitutional order of this state is respected in its entire territory and will ensure, for example, that the Serbian national flag is placed on the Mesna Office building in the village of Velika Trnovac in the south of Serbia? Finally, what the SRS least expects from this law is that it will allow the executive authority, in collaboration with its partners from the EU, to highlight all state and national symbols on the buildings of state institutions on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, for example, in Pec, Prizren, Urosevic, Djakovici, Pristina, of course, all of this with the Constitution from which this law came. counterpart Mirko Munjic, who also considered it appropriate to address the Assembly in this way by deciding on the chairmanship of this regular session. – In the past 15 years, there has been no more significant decision by the Western forces without being against Serbian national interests. I guess that's what they pay us back for millions of people killed during World War I and World War II, when the Serbian flag swerved on the side of the Allies, and it was mostly killed by Serbian brave soldiers. Thomas Jefferson said, recalls counterpart Mirko Munjic, otherwise for America who is trying to protect national interests in Serbia's territory, or KIM -- I am concerned about the fate of my country when I know how righteous God is. What is also significant for his fellow Munjic and what has truly hurt us all, we think it is totally unacceptable and politically extremely incorrect, it may be a failure, it may be a protocol mistake, and at the end of the matter is domestic education, how representatives of the Serbian government, and especially the first Serbian minister behaves at certain events. So on February 15th in Orasc on Statehood Day, the first Serbian minister introduced a new custom and thus slapped the entire Serbian people, threw them on their knees in front of the entire EU, that it was not necessary to take the hat off of the head or at the time of the intonation of the national anthem, nor when giving the mail to Serbian heroes, Karadjordje and Serbian rebels. The relationship that the Serbian government shows and the ruling majority in Serbia, it is our political belief, according to national symbols, especially the flag, coat of arms and anthem, has actually shown in relation to The Hague. What we had the opportunity to hear, too, at the Security Council session, which was said on March 23rd 2009, Mrs. DiCarlo's top argument, I hope that I made a good name, was still, Mr. Tadic, we cannot talk about a fair and unfair solution on 2900 pages, the Hague tribunal reached a verdict to the Serbian former summit. It is, therefore, a slap, in the last maybe 100 years Serbia has not received such an aperkat, by the Serbian authorities, I hope that you will correct me if I am wrong, there are members of the ruling majority and Mr. Minister, when this shameful verdict was issued, following the acquittal of Ramush Haradinaj, who is indeed the signator of the most disgusting crime on KIM territory, who is indeed a signator of all those who are today harassing Kosovo, and are Cypriot terrorists, criminals who have traded with the authorities of the innocent people, after a shameful acquittal, because what Serbs, only meat, the body worth fivem euros on the black market, the Serbian government has reacted in a way that only Mr. Ivica Dacic said that it is a shameful and a humble verdict for Serbia and that Serbia must react in an adequate manner. I apologize if anyone else reacted in a similar way, but this was the only one available to me through the media. So what has been invented in The Hague is only evidence of a Serbian criminal enterprise. This is what both America and the UK and Germany, with the help of their allies, predetermined to the Serbian people, long before you came to power, so it came to you, long before we started to think about political action. This is a plan and a project that has its decades-long duration and implementation, patiently, committed, phase by stage. The ultimate goal is Precumenovo's Serbia and the reduction of Serbian power. Why? Because of Russia. The heirs of Dizreli's policy know very well that when needed, no Serb will fire on any of his Orthodox brothers. When Bondsteel was built, extremely wrongly, it was a symbol of what was going to happen to us a few years later. We knew by then that KIM had gone into the hands of those who had turned the fate of the people into these places. Also, brothers and sisters, since it is a Christian fast and we are approaching, say that in Christ we are all equal, especially when we are talking about the prayer anthem of ''God of Justice', we should remind those great and West and all those behind this last experiment that costs us too much and too much – that, too, one of the most significant symbols of the future of the Pecic Patriarch and are High Decani, and that in the history of the Serbian people there were worse times, but that the Serbian people were raised from the ashes of the moment when all of them gave up their hands in turn, so will be this time. Perhaps among you from the ruling coalition there are gullible ones. I certainly know that there is plenty of patriotism and patriotism, and I know for a fact that most of you think that it is doing the best it can and that by choosing European Serbia, it will provide what you promised on October 5th. I don't have any dilemma here, and the SRS doesn't have any dilemma. We just want to convince you that we were in that thinking and that we were deceived. You have the final testimony of someone we held, conditionally, for the former DOS intelligence chamber, which is Mr. Zoran Mijatovic. He was the most informed man in Serbia. Among other things, this man testified about how The Hague works, or The Hague office – that they avoided state authorities. Gentlemen, that's an argument for you, because they just didn't want official cooperation with you, they were working under the grain. And why is that? Because there's always someone potential for some Hague dungeon! And who are these potentials -- all those who stand in defense of what is called everything and undermines Serbia's state attributes, and what should be defined as a Serbian national interest? All of them, but indeed in turn all who in the history of the Serbs tried to build the house equally well for all citizens, paid too high a price – someone with a head. One example was the murdered President Milosevic. To remind you, it was indeed a symbol of another of Serbia's failures, defeats and tragedies. The man told the entire world public that he needed adequate medical help, and that "civilised", "humans", the West told a totalitarian, a primitive Serb -- I don't care, and thus participated in the murder of the former Serbian and Yugoslav president. And that wasn't the end of it. According to Mr. Zoran Mijatovic, to remind you that he was the deputy chief of resor DB, Mr. Goran Petrovic, in the period when he was Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, he unfortunately later realized that all those who are now a Serbian apparatus are potential war crimes indictees before The Hague or other tribunals. We had a really great example of you from the ruling coalition. It's, of course, about the president of the SRS who's been for six years, about the qualification of the indictment, about the crimes, and I'm going to leave that maybe for another topic, and I'm not going to get into that story at all right now. What's this about? So, this internationally developed community, which is so proud of democratic fluids compared to the Serbian primitive people, just seven hours before the end of the proceedings against Dr Vojislav Seselj, broke the procedure. You are all witnesses, as the public followed it in Serbia, what it looked like and how dominant Dr. Seselj played in relation to the instructed witnesses to testify to false allegations. Let's not be too subjective, I won't go further into the qualification of that – mostly, they interrupt the proceedings just seven hours before the prosecution ends the prosecution's evidence and initiate proceedings against one person, a new case for contempt of the court. The allegations of this accusation are, I'm not telling you, that they have broken every rule, that Dr. Seselj has influenced, intimidated, revealed the names of certain witnesses. Now we come to a point, a light example that I really must give, and it concerns the ruling majority. Mr Rasim Ljajic then said -- the Serbian state has never received a request from the prosecution or the UN tribunal to ensure the safety and safety of potential insiders witnesses, in the case of the prosecution against Dr Vojislav Seselj. They never got any indication that any of these people, who were supposed to testify before the prosecution, threatened any danger. Then what are we talking about here? In a way, we can also talk about the portable and derived national symbols here. What is said in The Hague to judge individuals for war crimes, read only Ramush Haradinaj's verdict. What is said about two-way co-operation – please tell me what is she looking at? All Serbian symbols fell for this two-way co-operation, as three thousand DNA samples were destroyed in the UN tribunal's laboratories. These samples, ladies and gentlemen, were to testify about the monstrous crimes against the Serb innocent population during the period of NATO aggression and just now. Nine pages of UNMIK's report have disappeared. An investigation into Albania's territory has been incapacitated, and we have examples of the fact that the VBA had data and lists the first people of VBA all along -- that the Serbian state was on time aware of it, and that it was not responding. We even have allegations, and that was written in certain media, the first VBA man to say at the time – we knew about buses that, three or four buses, which took 60 Serbs to northern Albania. Gentlemen, we are talking about all organ extraction techniques that cannot take place without presence or without the knowledge of competent institutions or organizations. We finally have a secret report from the Federal German Intelligence Service, which has caused a real disturbance in the German Parliament. Many resignations followed, which are in fact direct evidence of the criminal activities of the Cypriot terrorists in the KIM territory, which are also direct proof of the association of the Cypriot terrorists with the highest peaks in America, Great Britain and Brussels. A secret GNI report, or someone from the GNI itself, has made an effort – it is no longer a secret report, you can find it, it is now available to the public on the Internet. It's fraternizing data. The Serbian public found out about it when two spies, not reported as intelligence officers, were allegedly arrested for planting a bomb on certain Eulexes premises in the KIM territory. So, it seems that the Serbian government and the Serbian public live in some parallel realities, and I think that we are all approaching that critical moment, and especially the Serbian government, when we will definitely have to say – either we go to the end and protect what is guaranteed by our Constitution, the UN Charter, the Security Council Resolution, therefore, to protect only the international legal order and then we are all in it and there is no standing there. But I have to warn you, that's what we've been through. Do you think the murdered Yugoslav President Mr Milosevic was not an American ally, was not a man who was a factor of stability in the Balkan territory? That's what you've been talking about in public. Don't you think he wanted to succeed as a politician, as an ideologist, as a man? He only had one problem, he trusted those who didn't need it, and he realized it too late. In the same situation, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you are now. You chose the path, as I said at the beginning of the exhibition, which is completely legitimate for us. People voted for European Serbia. I belong to a list that has only voted for Serbian Serbia, the list that has been so permeated over the past few months, which is being run by an unfavourable media campaign. None of you have found yourself human to protect the dignity of your fellow MPs. What's written about us? How much do we cost Serbia? How are we acting? How are we supposed to behave? How would you all behave if you were in our shoes? You can't tell us in the halls – we understand you, you're right, never in the last modern Serbian history has it happened like what happened to you, and that in the media we're really being crucified daily. The policy of double standards was a policy perhaps of some former regimes, and it was always the head of those who carried out the repression. I belong to a list that won a thousand and two hundred and almost twenty votes. These people voted for Serbia's Serbia, for a strong national, economically recovered Serbia who will know where its borders are, where people will be able to walk normally through Kosovo and Metohija and enter the Pecko Patriarch and the High Decana, where "God of Justice" will play in every place and every opportunity for this. These people voted only for an opportunity for equal participation in what is called daily work, so that no one can blackmail them whether they belong to the ruling set or whether they belong to those who slowly but surely go into the past. They voted in favour of Serbia, which will be an equally safe house for everyone and who will hide everything from the attacks against those they have forced on Serbia. In that Serbia, their children should grow up safely. In such a Serbia, there is an economy, there is an industry, there are some factories, and of course there are foreign companies, but it is known what is given and who is given primate. In such a Serbia, it should not be a shame to learn about Serbian history, to value Serbian culture. In that Serbia, it should not happen that three outstanding artists resign to the post of director of Serbia's most important national institutions. Look, ladies and gentlemen, really, I'm referring to all of you who are honest patriots and patriots, as the National Library of Serbia looks like. She's so devastated that she doesn't have a person who isn't interested in studying the respect of everything someone's written with severe torture and maybe even in prison, and it doesn't hurt every time you walk into the rooms of the National Library. How do we understand that? We can only see that as a concrete relationship between the government and everything that needs to be a symbol of one nation and one state. I can understand, it may be very difficult in a situation where whatever you touch, it's like vicious Olympic circles, one problem solving leads to another problem, but let's sit down and talk about it, to create political will here and see what is a political consensus, what is a national interest and make a political agreement. The situation that is happening to us and why we are in the SRS is the result of the lack of political will to come to a political agreement. I know that you are not directly responsible and guilty of this and I know that you cannot behave differently compared to those who have slowly but certainly brought you into power against Milosevic. I know they won't let you make a political deal here and create a political climate here that will strengthen Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, they don't need strong Serbia, they need a small country, torn apart, easily manipulated. They need a fragmented political scene, the more parties – the better, which they will also be able to manipulate. You, ladies and gentlemen, are neither the first nor the last to face it. Many before you were in similar trouble. There are those honest ones who admit it, confess their defeats, learn their mistakes and move on. I really appeal, Serbia is in a terrible crisis. We seem to be completely alienated, something that does not resemble the Serbian people, and what is recognised, God forbid, as hate. We are political opponents and non-eminents, but we are not enemies to each other. Come on on behalf of that people who lose their dignity every day because they cannot feed their family, who has no institutions that can protect everything that makes a man worthy of man, let us, on behalf of all these people, finally stop all of this, to agree to make this better state, better Serbia, everyone from their positions, you for European Serbia, we for Serbia, you and Mr. Tadic, we with Dr. Seselj. Let's convince by argument the people who can achieve one single need, the life of a worthy man. Let's talk about arguments, not punishments, warnings and exclusions. Let's introduce freedom of speech and responsibility, I agree, but not repressively. Give us some space so we can show up in the media, too, so we can participate with you equally in various TV shows, and say what we think. For God's sake, a million and almost 20,000 people are not a negligible number, it's a good part of Serbia. Don't do what they used to do before you, write rules that will apply to you as an opposition to apply, especially now that we, in addition to all these national topics, in addition to all the problems relating to the concrete survival of Serbia, and that is the relationship with the Republic of Croatia, were the first to welcome Mr. Foreign Minister, Mr. Jeremic, we first said - so should the foreign minister sound. Serbia needs to get off its knees. Serbia won't fight. Who's up to the wars? We are the ones who lost the most, all of us, no family in Serbia, and also you who didn't touch that accident, but we didn't have a choice. The Serbian people were found, ladies and gentlemen, you all know it, caught by the joint criminal enterprise of those who are now down in Kosovo and Metohija, who are now harassing your president, Mr Tadic in the Security Council, brazenly and rudely, just because he says what we were saying. Let's ask the British and the Americans how they'd behave if someone, some foreign force took away some of their territory? Would the British, Americans and Germans say, "Here you go?" Certainly not, as none of them respect the subject's position. The SRS, ladies and gentlemen, was for full, equal co-operation with the EU, but only as a full and equal partner, not as a subject and someone who humbles himself in such a way. I would like from Mr. Serbian Minister to hear, I would really like arguments about how he thinks to carry out the thesis – both Kosovo and Metohija and the European Union?- I'm sorry. Here, we're in front of the Serbian public. Every election is just this scale to assess who's cheating, who's a populist, who's wrong, who promises something he can't keep. I hope, Mr. Dulic, that in today's day, we will hear the answers to these questions that have been raised before you. You here are not only the man who proposed this bill, but the representative of the Serbian government. And how we are sure that every session of the Serbian Parliament is followed by all those who should follow it. This is a message from this place -- very soon when the Serbian government realizes who its partners are in this business, when it realizes that it will not be able to fill the budget, when it realizes that it is in full debt slavery, that there will be no new jobs, that investments will come more and more rarely and less, then Serbia will rise. I'm afraid before that, gentlemen of the ruling majority, you'll have rivers of people on the streets, those you're trying now to burden with extra taxes, except that people simply won't have where to meet the obligations to the Serbian state that missed the chance to come out responsibly and to make it very clear to the people, the people would understand that, what we are in the situation, how much power we need, what we need to do. Do you really think we wouldn't find ourselves on that plan? Yes, because we all represent a part of a nation that has only one desire to live a life of a worthy man. What else did you miss to do and what was startling for us, and there are certain examples that are really painful and embarrassing for the state of Serbia. It is nice to watch athletes who, by the circumstances, did not care for Serbia, remembered when they achieved European and world successes, when they were so beautiful and proud, with medals on their chests, stand upright with an anthem being released and then the whole world knows it's Serbia. These same athletes, when they decide to give their millions of premiums to Kosovo and Metohija, by saving a large number of lives by means of a sanitary vehicle, receive a death threat from Albanian terrorists. The example is well-known, it's about our truly exceptional tennis player, who can't get into Serbia without being guarded by a special terrorist unit, just because the guy wanted a sanity vehicle to help some people in Kosovo and Metohija. You have another example, the same fantastic young athlete, who best known us wherever he was. He wore a "Kosovo Is Serbia" shirt. What did he get in return? They simply eliminated it from the European Championship. It's a disaster. Then all of Serbia had to stand up and give a certain answer, yes, diplomatically, and protect its people wherever they are. It's no shame. On the contrary, this is what you expect, what young people expect. These athletes, artists, actors, scientists, all those who best represent us anywhere to appear and for whom we are so proud, expect to feel what the patronage of Serbia's mother is, they expect to be part of this people and this state. Is that a lot? That is what patriotism looks at, and that is what patriotism looks at. I will remind you once again of the words of the DOS campaign manager, that it is indeed patriotism if you succeed in providing a man worthy of life to a single citizen of Serbia. What about it, ladies and gentlemen? We have over 60,000 people who have lost their jobs in Serbia. A thousand people from July 1st won't have social security, they won't be able to get their own stamp. How many will be out of a job? Half a million people in Serbia live in the line of the lower poverty line. Now people are already putting their finger on their foreheads and wondering how they're going to be able to feed their families. I am not saying that you are responsible and responsible for the crisis that has spread into Serbia, but you are responsible, and that is why you have taken responsibility for the election results, to offer a solution. And you missed that opportunity. What Mr. Buha, otherwise Prime Minister of Republika Srpska in exile, wants to remind, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and Mr. Minister, in the right place of the Serbian public, and is not able, is the following: Modern states pay special attention to state symbols – coat of arms, flags, anthems, because in these symbols the history, tradition and culture of a nation, as well as other cult factors are embedded. Unfortunately, the Serbian state, unlike many other things, has not paid much attention to these symbols, and this gesture has shown its analogy and disrespect for Serbian tradition, and has actively advocated the adoption of symbols and values that are contrary to the fame and rich history of the Serbian people. Today's Serb symbols were first installed in the constitutional justice system in Republika Srpska. The 1991 Constitution of Republika Srpska has selected a two-headed eagle with gold and glasses. The flag was a Serbian trio with a coat of arms, and an anthem "God of Justice", while the second part of the Serbian Corps was exposed to a devastating ideological cliché singing "Hey Sloveni", the fighters of Republika Srpska fought with traditional Serb symbols that we are inaugurating today with this legal project. In addition to the Serbian trio, victories in the defence of the ethnic territories of Serb peoples attacked by Ustasha gangs supported by NATO pact forces were celebrated. As it treats the national flag and anthem, let it serve an example of a parliamentary issue set up by the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The Ministry has requested information about numerous incidents caused by Croatian fans at the World Handball Championship in the Republic of Croatia. First, Croatian fans tried to carry out a physical attack on Serbian handball players, then burned the Serbian flag with the shouts of chauvinist insults directed to the Serb people. At each game of the Serbian handball team intonating an anthem, angry Croatian fans have scanned fascist passwords, ladies and gentlemen: "Kill a Serb", "Serbs on willows!" Also others from arsenals that remind those of World War II. The biggest incident was triggered by the mayor of Zadar, one of the hosts of the world championship, who from the official mast on which all the flags of the participants of the championship were exposed took off the Serbian tricolor. In that atmosphere, our handball players were supposed to play and bring success to Serbia. The reason for removing the Serbian flag, according to him, was a preventive measure avoiding the irritation of Croatian fans. An unprecedented incident, but without conviction from the Serbian side. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, as well as Serbian electronic and written media, have kept the incidents quiet. Such incidents are a regular phenomenon when it comes to sports teams' meetings in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia's foreign courteous voiced regret over the incidents, promises an honorary word that it will punish the wrongdoers and end it. The task of the Serbian state authorities is to protest open attacks on state symbols, to protect against harsh attacks on the physical integrity of athletes, journalists, sports fans and other participants, diplomatic and other peaceful means, to warn the other side that behind these ruthless incidents there are organised groups, assisted by state authorities that do nothing to prevent wrongdoers in an open intention to, through the burning of symbols, the removal of flags and similar activities of national symbols, humiliate one state and completely disrupt our relations. This kind of action is destroying the Serbian state's reputation, destroying the morale of athletes, fans and citizens. The silence of the state authorities cannot indeed be treated as ignorance, but as an open diversion that undermines Serbian national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, we had a chance to watch certain games that took place in the Laura Sports Hall, where once Serb soldiers were tortured. None of the Serbian authorities sent a protest to the organisers of the rally, that there should have been joy in the goals achieved by those who should apologize for what was done in "Lori" and that is a terrible incident. When Mr. Milivojevic spoke of a two-headed non-fat eagle, I really closely followed your presentation, and thank you for mentioning that beneath that eagle a river of people died, mostly innocents, serving as flesh to conquerors who are known in history as representatives, members or allies of great forces or empires. But, Mr. Milivojevic and colleagues from the ruling majority, I would really like to hear what has finally been done to talk about Serbian victims, say, in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Nis. Do Serbian victims not deserve to be built a memorial room, where those who inherited them, who last survived, will at least be able to light a flower or candle. Let me remind you of the truth that is not talked about in Serbia, which is a path that is more rarely followed. 6,635 Serbs died in Sarajevo, in Srebrenica 3,287, in Brod 445, Prijedor 648, in Banja Luka 1,416 Serbs in the period from 1992 to 1995. The number of casualties in KIM territory is still being determined. The number of ethnically cleaned from Republika Srpska's territory during two "Blash" and "Storm" actions exceeds 450 thousand. There are gentlemen I trust with my word and who I know will correct me if I'm wrong. In Serbia since 2000, has there ever been a word about these people, the way these victims deserve to be talked about? Has the Serbian state considered sending a request to other countries to investigate the truth? How do you expect to achieve reconciliation if the truth is carried out by NGOs represented by Natasa Kandic? I personally have nothing against this lady, but I have the impression that she is very subjective and I have the impression that she is very much carrying out the unilateral interests of those who finance her work. But I would like to hear Mrs. Natasa Kandic say that the Serbian army has prosecuted all those soldiers during all these wars, the last, the defences, who have exceeded their powers. If the Serbian state and military courts have prosecuted, we have notes about it, it's public data, you can get to that, all those who committed crimes. In 1994, a group of "Yellow Wasps" and Repic, who committed it, was found to be certain atrocities. The man was just a junkie and an alcoholic, and it's terrible what he did. God never let it happen again, but Serbia spoke publicly of individual crimes. This gentleman, who died in 2006 in prison, was sentenced to ten and a half years, tied himself to the SRS for purely political reasons. All of these are listed by DOS in 2003 when our boss was packed for The Hague, the president of the SRS, was denied by Zoran Mijatovic, Deputy Chief of State Security Goran Petrovic, during the DOS period, when he explained what I am telling you. So I'd really like to see the will to come to that truth. Milosevic is gone! A man has been killed and that time is forever behind us. The argument that you are heirs to something that Milosevic did, I don't think it stands. You rule as much as he does. You have the levers of power that he had. You may have similar allies that he had and who sold him and who told him, apparently, lies and lies. There's no other softer word. One was said in meetings in Belgrade, and in their queens they did something else entirely. That's what we see now. I guess there's no dilemma about it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16858	The Members of Parliament have time at your disposal as representatives and time at your disposal on behalf of the parliamentary group has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16859	I'm sorry. I really need to thank you for this proposed subject and for the opportunity to finish the thought. Thank you all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16860	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic asked for the right to replication, based on direct reference. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16861	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleague and Miss Ragush, I have closely followed your presentations and I must remind you of something we have said. I'm not that close to reading the English ambassador's blogs, I'm not so close to texting him, but I'm glad you're reading Mr. Tadic's and Dr. Zoran Djindjic's speeches, because you can see that through these speeches you can understand, quite late, how you should behave when you're in power and how you should defend Serbia's interests when you're in power. I'm sorry when you quoted the collected works of Vojislav Seselj, which you do not quote and some talk about state symbols, let's say, pledoies for the democratic constitution he wrote, not the second edition, but the first edition in which he proposes "Hey Slovenes". Also, I'm sorry that you don't quote some of his sentences, when you talk about KIM, for example, a 1999 sentence, May – if a NATO boot sets foot on Kosovo, I will retire from politics for life. Ten thousand pairs of boots entered Kosovo. I want him to defend himself in The Hague, I want him to have all the luck, I want him to come back here, so he can figure out if he's going to go to Tom Nikolic or to you, but I want him to have me there in The Hague, not to defend my mother. I'm a Serb. My mother's a Serbian. Whenever he defended Serbia's interests, Serbia died. I will defend myself rather than be defended by him, and I wish him every happiness and good health. I want him to come back here, sit between you, represent the interests of the SRS in the way you think is best for you and him, but I really want Serbia never to defend it again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16862	National MP Marina Ragush is entitled to a replica, based on Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16863	Dear counterpart Milivojevic, you have just done what the whole of Serbia has seen and what I expected of you. Once again I must say that Dr. Vojislav Seselj will return and I mean it very quickly, and let it go of whom he defends in The Hague, and what is The Hague, and what is the process before The Hague, history is already recording it. I just showed you that the SRS isn't just using the sources of its ideologist, it's our political belief, we think it's the best way. People vote for whether we're successful or not, that's what every election shows. What I have to tell you is that you have just illustrated to the Serbian public that it is not the fault of the SRS, which is a political atmosphere full of tension, thoughtlessness and unwiseness, but it is you. What we're trying to do, and it's been a manifestation throughout my entire exposure, to bring in a conversation with normal, reasonable, healthy frameworks, and you don't want it. I have to thank you for this. Every word I said after this would be absolutely superfluous. You've really shown everything we've been talking about, not just us, but the whole opposition for days and months. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16864	I thank and conclude the original search. I'm setting a break by 3:45. In 1545, we will continue the joint principled search on the draft law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, the proposal for a law on protection against non-ionising radiation, the proposal for a law on chemicals, the Proposal for a law on biocidal products, the Proposal for a law on waste management, the Proposal for a law on packaging and packaging waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16865	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for A PROMODATION LAW, PRODUCTION, CONFORMITY AND USE OF THE FUNDING WEAPONS AND ON THEIR DESTRUCTION (Common principled search with 3, 4, 5, 6, 12 and 13 points) I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 94, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Plus MP Group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward, Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group – JS – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina MP group – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes, and according to Article 93. item 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the constituency groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Marina Ragus, SRS MP Milica Vojic-Marković, MP of the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica, MP Zoran Bortic, MEP of the SPS – JS, MP Zlata Djeric, Parliament group of Nova Srboa, MP Siniša Stamenković, Parliament group of PUPS. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, Proposal for a law on protection against ionic radiation and nuclear safety, Proposal for a law on protection against non-ionising radiation, Proposal for a law on chemical products, Proposal for a law on biocidal products, Proposal for a law on waste management, Proposal for a law on packaging and packaging waste. Do the representatives of the promoter, the present ministers, want a word? Does Mr. Dulic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, it is my great pleasure to be back in the assembly with you. I hope that today and in the coming days we will have a very fruitful and useful debate over a set of very important laws that represent a group of laws that create the future of our country and that will, for sure, substantially change both the appearance of this country and the future of generations to come. This package of laws is the fruit of the work of hundreds of people, several ministers from the past, whom we also owe great gratitude, a huge effort and an attempt to question the environment, issues that are important for the long-term preservation of human health, set as one of the priorities in times that were certainly not easy in the past. Many generations, when I say generations, I think, first of all, of the administration and ministers, have tried to impose these questions, and I am glad that we have managed to make several important laws come together into a single package that will represent the real ecological revolution in the Serbian legislation, because never so far in the history of this country, in the history of Yugoslavia, in the history of all other state-of-the-art forms that have been, it has not happened to consider a package of laws that is so comprehensive and which in one concrete and very substantive way regulate one of the areas. The essence of this package is not just the question of the number of laws. Six or seven of them will be debated before you today, nine more will be debated in the coming days, a total of 16. The essence of this package of laws is a strategic change of attitude towards the environment and the state of Serbia and our entire society. It is precisely this change of attitude that is proposed by the law that, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have the honour of representing today. We call this changed attitude in the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning a new environmental policy of the Serbian state. What does that policy mean? In the first place, the importance of environmental issues has changed. The environment is no longer a question that comes to the agenda only when all other issues that may be considered important in the media, in public opinion. The consideration of the environment comes in order parallel or, even better, before we engage in any other developmental project of state policy or strategy. Every other approach from the environmental point of view is too late and insufficient. Environmental care can't begin until it's finished, for example, taking care of economy, industry or any other branch of our society. No one should think it's possible to have a healthy, modern and prosperous economy in an unhealthy environment. Another component of the new environmental policy is a new understanding of the standards of environmental protection in the context of our integration processes. It is estimated that over 30% of the legislative activities of both the government and the Assembly and all the institutions of a single state in the process of European integration are essentially related to the issue of repairing the environmental situation. According to traditional understanding, Serbia will lose a lot of time and resources in its efforts to meet EU environmental standards, and any delay can cost us the delay in the EU accession process. It is only one of the delusions about what the European Union means to Serbia. In Serbia's new environmental policy, insisting on a healthy and quality environment is one of the real reasons why we need to seek to establish standards, quality of life and the way in which both the environment and nature are handled, which is one of the key quality countries that are present in the EU. If it weren't for the EU, the kind of air we and our children breathe in, what water we drink, what kind of soil the plants that feed us, how we treat everything that surrounds us, would probably be delayed for some better time that, unfortunately, would never arrive. The EU is therefore important, because it forces us to think about a healthy environment today and to plan for our development, so that we can live well thanks to the conservation of our natural resources. International standards should be accepted, even if in some cases we define them even more demanding, not because of integration processes, not because of the EU, but, above all, because of the better health of us, our children and our overall society. The third segment of the new ecological policy concerns the relationship between the economy sector and the environment. According to traditional understanding, which is, unfortunately, still rooted in Serbia, environmental concern is an impact on the interests of the economy, business interests, and policymakers should determine whether they are for development or for a healthy environment. In the new environmental policy, which this ministry has promoted, the state is a friend of the economy, but above all, the part of the economy that operates in line with the interests of the environment and which is socially responsible. The state of Serbia will be extremely engaged in helping the transition of economic operators to production processes that have a positive impact on the state of our environment. In the past, I was present in Parliament, too, when there were objective criticisms of an attempt by the Ministry of Environment to install standards in our economy, without respecting, above all, the situation in which this economy is located. We will go through the models of a new ecological policy, and very soon you will find another law that will complement this package, which will be a law on the environmental development fund, promoting models that will help our economies, small and medium-sized enterprises, large polluters, to, using very favourable credit funds, change their technology into cleaner, thus also making them more competitive both in the Serbian state and EU markets and, of course, to preserve the environment. This generation of politicians has a unique responsibility to change the attitude of the entire society towards the environment and I call on you to participate in this together. Instead of selling out our common future by being one of the last oasis of dirty technologies, we are much better off helping the economic activities that are in harmony with the environment. This is so much more because it is advanced technologies that are often more profitable and much cheaper than traditional industries. The state and society must help the economy to help the state and society. I think that segment of consciousness is getting more and more through to these people who are today participating in these mutual relations between the economy, on the one hand, and the state and politics, on the other hand. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to make some basic remarks on the content of the laws that you are addressed to. The first among them is the draft law prohibiting the development of production and storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. We joined the Convention to ban the development of production and storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction in 2000 as SRJ. Member States of this Convention have pledged to disarm themselves by destroying all stocks of chemical weapons held from all plants that used to produce chemical weapons in the past. In order to achieve this objective, the Member States which have joined the Convention agreed to build a verification regime for certain toxic chemical substances to ensure that such chemical substances are used exclusively for permitted peaceful purposes. This primarily implies the obligation to deliver annual reports to The Hague, with detailed data concerning the production, processing, use and storage of toxic chemical substances, which are relevant to this Convention. Also, this obligation includes the acceptance of international inspection and co-operation in their implementation. The adoption of this law, which is before you today, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, would allow for the implementation of the Convention, thus fulfilling the obligation arising from the accession of the Convention. This law gives effect to the implementation of the Convention by two authorities. In the section relating to the production, use and use of chemical substances for military purposes, the Convention is conducted by the Ministry of Defence, and when these substances are used for other purposes, industrial, agricultural, medical and pharmaceutical purposes, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. In addition, this law addresses the issue of education and the tasks of the Commission's national body for the implementation of the Convention. The special chapter of the law regulates the implementation of international inspection and co-operation with international inspectors. Since the state of Serbia, or the SFRY, was one of the few countries in the world with the capacity to produce chemical weapons and own that type of weapon, joining our country had multiple significance. We have gained an enviable reputation among its members, as well as the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in The Hague. This, above all, implies the fulfilment of all obligations under the Convention, which includes the adoption of this law. It is clear that the implementation of this law, with the active work of all institutions that need to worry about it, will further confirm the trust this international organisation, or the Secretariat of this Convention, has towards the state of Serbia. As regards the draft law on protection against ionic radiation and nuclear security, it is a joint proposal from the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning and the Ministry of Science. The draft law was attended by the most innovative domestic and foreign experts in the area of protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security areas. Public debate has been held, relevant international institutes, such as the International Atomic Energy Agency based in Vienna, have been consulted. The main reason for the adoption of this law is the need to harmonise the rules in this area with EU regulation and to strengthen the nuclear and radiation security regime in your country. This aims to achieve a level of security that can meet the increased requirements that have arisen as a result of significant changes in the world over the last decade. Implementation and continuous improvement of measures to ensure nuclear and radiation security and security have become priorities of the international community. The basic concern is no longer just the control of nuclear weapons and the prevention of its further expansion, but, above all, the provision of conditions for effective control of the abuse of radioactive and nuclear materials. In addition, it is necessary to provide a legal basis for the formation of an independent regulatory body. The agency for protection against ionic radiation and Serbia's nuclear security, which is the most significant newspaper in this law, will allow for increasing the efficiency of control and surveillance of the safe application of the source of ionising radiation. In view of the strategic importance and complexity of the area covered by the proposal for a law on the protection of ionising radiation and nuclear security based on internationally accepted principles, the highest standards prescribed by the world's leading organisations in this area have been incorporated into it. Here, first of all, we are referring to the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Nuclear Energy Agency, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the International Commission for the Protection of Ionian Emissions. So by passing this law, the state of Serbia would be classified in the order of countries that have the most modern arrangement in the area. The draft law on protection against non-ionising radiation is the fourth time in the assembly procedure. According to the World Health Organisation, the Republic of Serbia ranks among a small number of countries that do not have a law governing the area of protection against non-ionising radiation. The adoption of a law on protection against non-ionising radiation is necessary, as conditions in the area of protection against non-ionising radiation in the Republic of Serbia are considered unsatisfactory. Many sources of non-ionizing radiation in the environment are widely used uncontrollably. There are no measures to protect human health and protect the environment from non-ionizing radiation in the use of these sources. There is no database of the type, characteristics and number of sources of non-ionising radiation used in the environment and used in the workplace. A systematic examination of the levels of non-ionising radiation in the environment has not been established. The bill provides for decentralisation in determining the measure of conditions and supervision by the competent authorities, which will lead to more effective implementation of protection and supervision measures by local self-government, AP Vojvodina, or the Ministry. Also, the bill includes recommendations from the World Health Organisation related to the use of the source of non-ionising radiation. Based on the recommendations of the World Health Organization, sensitive cases such as schools, kindergartens, nursing homes, health institutions, etc. will be defined, on which facilities will not allow the setting of sources of non-ionising radiation, i.e. the setting of antennae systems of telecommunications devices. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the chemical industry plays a very important role in Serbia's overall industrial production and external trade. The basic need for the adoption of the chemical law lies in allowing chemicals to be produced, imported and used in a way that is safe for human health and the environment. How old is the current 1995 law that regulates chemicals tells the fact that some of the solutions under the law have been overcome in EU countries in the 60s or 70s. The main objective of the adoption of the chemical law is to regulate the safe placing of chemical products on the market, while ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment. The specific objective is to improve free transport of chemicals with EU countries and other countries. Also, law-making will foster the development of safer alternatives to risky chemical products. The aim of this law is to establish integrated chemical management for the whole life cycle of chemicals from production, or imports to their disposal. This law allows for the creation of a national strategic paper for integrated chemical management through the creation of an information system for the security of chemical management and the establishment of an institutional framework for the achievement of these objectives. The regulation requires proper notification of the impact of chemicals on people and the environment, the introduction and issue of authorisations for the use of the most dangerous chemicals, the implementation of the consent procedure based on previous information on the impact of chemicals on health and the environment and the implementation of tests on substances for which there is no knowledge on the EU market will contribute to the major improvement of citizens' health and environmental protection. Special benefit from the adoption of laws will also be given to workers who handle chemicals and will receive more information on the substances they use. This, of course, will not only apply to workers in the chemical industry, but also to other industries where chemicals are used. The main objective of the adoption of the law on biocidal products is the establishment, maintenance and improvement of the single system, placing on the market and use of biocidal products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Until now, only certain types of biocidal products have been regulated through several different laws and not in the right way. This approach did not provide adequate protection for human health and the environment from these products, which are often very dangerous because of their function. Also, such arrangements are contrary to European regulations in this area. The bill provides for an appropriate procedure, even before placing biocidal products on the market, to carry out a risk and risk assessment. In addition to regulating the placing on the market of biocidal products, the law also regulates safe use in such a way as to regulate the adequate use and packaging of biocidal products. In doing so, it is particularly important to give warnings of danger, prohibitions and instructions for use. In addition, the law will ensure that biocidal products that pose the greatest danger are used only by trained professional users. The most significant effect of this law is that only safe biocidal products will be placed on the market of the Republic of Serbia. This law also ensures that the user of the biocidal product is adequately informed of the properties and manner and use of that product. Special benefit from the adoption of this law is also the need to regulate the area of transport and use of biocidal products in accordance with EU rules. This will ensure a significant improvement in the transport of biocidal products with the Member States of the European Union and other countries. The next area of activity of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, which is ahead of you, ladies and gentlemen, is related to waste management. These rules are largely not in line with EU legislation, and there are also a number of regulations missing, so that the area of waste management is fully regulated. This, of course, applies to laws that have been in force until today. The inadequate treatment of waste is one of the biggest environmental problems in the Republic of Serbia, and I think we are all witnessing it. This conclusion came from a number of environmental analyses in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which have been done over the past few years. One of the answers of all of us together and Serbia's countries to the problem of inadequate waste storage and the emergence of huge amounts of waste in the environment, is the bill on waste management. The bill is a strategic step towards national legislation in this area with EU legislation. The reduction, reuse, recycling and regeneration of waste is one of the basics of sustainable management of natural values and protection and promotion of the environment. At the same time, it is an important form of prevention, reduction and control of environmental pollution. The reason for the adoption of this law is to establish integrated waste management, from waste generation, through collection, transport, storage, treatment, to final disposal. The law also regulates a complex system of applying modern waste classification principles, waste management organisations, waste management of specific waste flows, waste management permits, cross-border waste movement, waste reporting, and waste management financing. The main objective of this law is to provide and ensure conditions for the reduction and production of waste, in particular by developing clean technologies and efficient use of natural resources. The passing of this law will give a great momentum to the reuse of waste recycling, the separation of secondary raw materials from waste, the use of waste as energy, and the proper disposal of waste. It is very important to stress that most of the proposed environmental laws, including the waste management law, are designed to decentralise competences. Thus, the proposal for this law confers jurisdiction on local self-government to deal with hazardous waste. So far, the local inspector has not had the possibility of imposing measures and filing applications in the illegal treatment of waste, which now will not be the case after this law. One of the key shortcomings in the current rules is that they do not provide integrated and efficient management of packaging and packaging waste, with respect to the principles adopted in the EU. There are also a number of sublegal regulations missing to ensure that the waste management area is fully regulated, and therefore the management of packaging and packaging waste. For this reason, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning has proposed to you today promoting the law on packaging and packaging waste. The draft law specifically provides for the establishment of a standard of environmental protection that packaging must meet, the establishment of conditions of integrated packaging management and packaging waste, and from the creation of packaging, through its collection, transport, storage, treatment, reprocessing, or recycling, use for energy purposes until final disposal. I'll speak very specifically. The law regulates the type of packaging and packaging waste, management planning and management competences of packaging and packaging waste, management and authorisation organisations for the management and reporting of packaging and packaging waste, as well as economic instruments in this area. The long-term objectives of this law are to ensure, in accordance with the principle of sustainable development, the conservation of natural resources, the protection of the environment and the development of modern packaging technologies. At the same time, it is our intention to ensure the establishment of an optimal packaging and packaging waste management system in accordance with the principle of sharing responsibility and avoiding disturbances and restrictions in competition. This objective is particularly important given the significant economic implications of the different models of regulation of packaging waste management. That is precisely why compliance with EU rules in this area is necessary when we consider the fact that most of the trade exchange is being achieved with EU countries on a daily basis by the Republic of Serbia. At the end of the presentation of the contents of the laws that are before you today, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would like to say a few words about the position of the Ministry of Environment and the spatial planning regarding the application of the laws for which this ministry is competent. Of course, I want to point out from this place that this ministry will not have a dilemma that law enforcement sometimes has to be provided to bulldozers. We can also find confirmation of this readiness in the activities that are happening these days in protected natural resources, where for years there was a wild building that no one could touch. They felt it was impossible to implement the law and remove wild construction in those areas for which the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning is responsible. As we have carried out action on Zavojsko Lake, these days we will have implemented similar actions in all protected natural goods where people are arrogantly, incorrectly, without any sense of measure, built their wild objects, and poured out their sewerage directly into lakes and rivers, from which water affects our municipalities and villages, knowing that they can't get any permission, nor can it be legalized in any way and legalized. In the same way, with the same strength and determination we will try to implement the laws that are here before you, because this is the answer to one of the biggest chronic problems that we have as a state, which is, unfortunately, the case that very often the laws that the National Assembly of the RS does not implement in practice and do not live in practice. At the very end, I want to present to you one of the key actions that the Ministry intended to work in this year, and it is called – "Let's Clean Serbia" action. The aim of this action is not only to clear Serbia of thousands of dumps, which have been created in recent decades, due to the chronic negligentness of our citizens and the communal businesses for the environment. The idea of this action is to raise awareness of the harmfulness of waste that is being delayed in nature today. The idea of this action is that through education our people learn how important it is that this is no longer happening in the future. The idea of this action is also to raise the capacity of the municipal structure, in those urban and suburban environments, where there is no systematic waste disposal to create places where waste could be delayed. The key thing is the next idea of this action is to awaken the awareness of all our citizens how important the issue of environmental protection is, because we have not created the environment in which we live today ourselves and we are essentially borrowing it from generations to come. Any action that will help our environment to be healthier is an action that directly affects the health of our children, the health of their children and the health of generations that will come and that may one day wonder why we haven't done it. The answer to the question – whether the "Let's Clean Serbia" action will be conducted on such difficult economic occasions, is that it will be implemented, that no reason can be put before us anymore, which is why we would delay the action concerning raising the level of consciousness, quality of life and, of course, with help, hopefully, and all of you can manage to solve one of the burning problems that we have today, which is the burning environment, in this way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for your attention and invite you to come along with us to lay down good laws that we will enforce in the future. I call on all MPs who have submitted the amendments to sit down these days and agree, because there are many good amendments that this ministry will accept. I call on all parliamentary groups to talk intensively in the coming days about how these laws can be improved even more in order to be the laws behind which we all stand, because I am sure that in addition to many antagonising topics, which we very often put before each other in this assembly, the question of the environment is not something that can separate us, the issue of nature's management and the environmental issue is certainly something that needs to bring us together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16867	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, president of the Committee want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16868	Madam President, Mr Dulic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you that Article 74. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia contains a norm according to which "Every person has the right to a healthy environment and to a timely and complete notification of its condition. Everyone, especially the Republic of Serbia and an autonomous province, is responsible for protecting the environment. Everyone is obliged to protect and improve the environment. ''Otherwise, this member is located in the chapter 'People's Rights and Freedoms'. That's why I started quoting this member of the Constitution. The question of environmentalism, the issue of environmental protection, should be viewed first through the human rights and freedoms Corps. The issue of environmental protection is one of the central issues and planetary matter, and when it comes to supranational organisations, such as the EU, I believe that this system is just as standardized in the EU. The issue of harmonising our legislation with EU legislation is only one of the aspects when we talk about a set of these laws in the field of ecology, these first ones, I think, nine, and later in the united debates. Another very important aspect of what we are going to discuss in the coming days is that these laws are not just one normative-legal framework, but they are also the basis for a broad affirmative social action. Most of the norms in these laws represent one, so to speak, the narrow professional matter to be applied in practice by state authorities, beginning with ministries, autonomous province, local self-government, etc. but surely all of these laws, which I think is one of the intensities of these projects, will foster a broad social action in which we will all have a healthier environment and in which generations that come behind us will have a better environment and better living conditions. I'll remind you that there are several approaches to standardising this matter for environmental protection. One of the ideas is the codification of legislation in this area. Therefore, the EU does not impose on the countries applying for membership, and those already in the EU, which will choose the model. The second model is to pass one roof law on environmental protection, while the rest of this issue is brought down to the level of regulations, sublegal acts, i.e. to be placed in the government's jurisdiction. We have been defined as, to put it this way, one system law on the environment. Otherwise, we will discuss amendments and additions to this law and a series of these sectoral laws. We believe that this solution is most comprehensive, most practical, and we believe that it has a greater weight if MPs, or the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, adopt these laws, by, of course, having to adopt a series of regulations, the government will have to bring these laws into practice. The quality of these laws needs to be appropriate, it is necessary to comply with EU legislation, and of course respecting all the specificities that exist in our country. When we talk about ecology, I expect that we will achieve perhaps the broadest consensus that can be reached in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, because this is not just a question of any government, not one parliamentary majority, not one moment in the historic walk of a country, this is one universal issue and I expect that, if not all MPs, the majority will vote for these laws. I will remind you that Serbia's EU accession requires bringing 160,000 legal and sublegal, not acts, but texts in A-4 format. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, according to my knowledge, will bring about 30% of these acts. This speaks of the importance of ecology, because in Europe, these are central themes in the EU: environmental protection, agriculture, human rights, consumer protection. So, once again, close to a third of the regulations, so the law and sublegal acts will be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. I would like to mention another aspect that implies the adoption of these laws, which is what the proposing representative, Minister Dulic, spoke of. The environment, environmental regulation, cannot be isolated from investment, from development, from economics, from economic development. Many of the solutions that exist in the legislation so far simply choked investors in, say, huge, inappropriately long time-limits for obtaining permits. For example, 260 days was required to conduct a full procedure for making a study on environmental impact assessment. With these legal solutions, and later by adopting sublegal acts, this procedure will be shortened to about 100 days. So, with 260 days of procedure, if I'm not mistaken, it'll be shortened to a much shorter term. Also, making a study for small and medium-sized enterprises where an inspector can impose measures on what needs to be done in two to three measures, not wasting time from three to four months to make a study. Therefore, small and medium-sized enterprises should be one special category in order to encourage these laws to develop this sector as well. Dangerous matter, integrated waste management is a very important area, such as the important area – packaging and packaging waste. We haven't had, by the way, this law on packaging waste, so it was necessary to pass a law on waste management and with some sublaws to regulate this issue, because it is a segment of a general waste management law. There was a need to extract packaging and packaging waste as a specific problem with special weight and process it through one law. So, one, let me say, side sector law. This law, in my opinion, allows for two basic models that have been applied in Europe, which are: the deposit system and the integrated packaging waste management system. So two models are allowed here. A whole set of these laws will certainly contribute to creating one base, one base in our country's normative system. Once again, this will be an incentive for a broad social action on the development of environmental consciousness. It is therefore necessary not to think in this matter and not act fragmentally, segmentally, it is necessary from the state to the non-governmental sector and all citizens at all to influence that environmental awareness is rising. In the end, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I'm going to paraphrase one thought that there's one general idea that if a large number of people, a significant number of people in one system, learn something and do something in one society, then there's a quality of social change, there's a development of one consciousness that we need so much in the field of ecology. I invite you to take active part in the debate both in principle and in particular. I've seen almost all the amendments submitted to these laws and I think one significant number of these amendments will be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16869	Thank you, Mr. Ratkovic. Do MPs who have their opinions, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Sasa Maksimovic, want a word? Mr. Nikolic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16870	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have injured Article 93. The Rules of Procedure, which discusses the order in which the participants are given a word, are said to be first spoken by the proposing representative and then by the rapporteur of the committee. On what basis is the Legislative Committee responsible for laws governing environmental issues? Why do we have a Committee on Environmental Protection? This is not about the matter that is being discussed in the Constitution, the laws that regulate the legal order, yet these are laws that regulate environmental protection, our relationship to the environment. The promoter's representative is not a minister of justice, but is in charge of protecting the environment. If you do not have a rapporteur at the Ministry of Environmental Protection who can speak on this subject, do not insult us by proving to us by hurting the Rules of Procedure that you must always have a word. For all there are rules and those rules have to be respected, and I draw your attention that you spoke of autonomous provinces in one, I suppose it was a lapus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16871	There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure because the Legislative Committee, I have established competent vice-presidents and secretaries, or deputies, are considering all the drafts of the law and absolutely this order is not foreseen in the way you have said. Thank you. Does one of the MPs want to know who has issued an opinion, given that the rapporteurs of the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on European Integration are not in the O.R.? The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16872	Thank you, Madam President. There's a gentleman here in the O.R., so they let the lady go first. I'm from that environmental protection committee and I've taken my opinion off the table. I'm sorry there's no president of that board here, I wish he were here, because I think that board worked well and I think we should say everything that that committee has brought together. I'll start with what my predecessor said, that he'll paraphrasise the thought, I won't paraphrasise, I'm afraid I'm not wrong, I'll start with the quote. Mr. Boris Tadic says, "It doesn't take much sense to conclude that Serbia should have 12 or 13 ministries today." Ten months after this large, massive government was made, there was a conclusion, there was an ex-post mind, that Serbia has many ministries, and since Mr Tadic has ordered, and he seems to be completely uninvolved in these affairs, that he will analyse, evaluate the work of ministers and ministers, I fear that according to the ministry's activities, this ministry does not go under ice or join another ministry. Sir, I've got to excuse the very large activities that were involved in matters of the Duke's Statute, but I don't think that's the jurisdiction of this ministry, so I don't know if it's going to be evaluated in that direction, so what it is is my question is what Mr. Minister said at this time, it was really a sight for my ears, about where the environment is in this country. But unfortunately, it does not stand exactly as he stated, because today many years later we are discussing a set of 16 environmental laws and three conventions that are and how long ago we should have ratified and it shows where the environment is. The then president of the Assembly, Mr Dulic, and today's minister who also has an ex-post mind in this direction, did not put many of these laws on the agenda that were in the process and then, and were ready to be put on the agenda, without having to discuss them today, but to apply them to joy, health and environment and citizens of Serbia. So, the state of how and where the place of environmentalism is today also shows that the committee in charge has practically passed all these laws and prepared to enter the agenda in December 2008 and that at that time all the opposition parties signed the proposal for the committee – we are asking for an emergency procedure in an emergency session to discuss these laws. Remember, dear colleagues, we had before us these laws, they were on the agenda and then, too, the day before the meeting just magically disappeared from the agenda. It is a place of ecologicality and it is a place that the minister determines our environment in Serbia. What's on the agenda in the first package today, as he says, although I would not use those terms, seven laws that I, as my group's authorised representative, can speak for two minutes and a little less than 30 seconds about each of them, simply shows the place of environmentalism and shows how the ruling majority, and how the government and how the Ministry of Ecology understands these issues and where the place of ecologicalism is according to their understanding today. The minister says that the strategic change in public attitude is something that he and his ministry contributed to. I must remind you, dear colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia, that the attitude on environmentalism and change of attitude, as well as the education of Serbian citizens through this assembly speaker, I am speaking on behalf of my parliamentary group, MPs of the DSS have and how much to say about this area, MPs have been prevented from talking about it in one serious way. So, in two minutes, I can sing you a child's song, but I can't tell you about the serious laws I'm going to talk about in a different way, simply because I think you need to say where the problems are, and that's how I educate the citizens of Serbia, and that's how I change Serbia's strategic attitude towards the environment. I think that's a more mature way. The most mature way would have been if you'd let every law be discussed publicly here. Then the citizens would understand where the essence of these laws is and where their benefits are for their health, for their children's health and for protecting the environment of Serbia. You're not particularly interested in that either. The next thing I mentioned to the Committee is that in the light of these laws, gentlemen, there is no need for any additional means to apply these laws. That's just not true. When an ordinary man thinks clearly, he will conclude that for the application of these laws, such as packaging and packaging waste, such as waste management, that I am not talking about other laws, it is really necessary and that a lot of money is needed, and it costs a lot of money, environmental costs, environmental protection and health protection of Serbian citizens just a lot of money. That's why it's very important that we say it publicly. Don't be like pre-election promises -- everything's beautiful, wonderful, until we get there to form a government, and then there's no 500,000 jobs, the flag doesn't work for us, and the investments are gone. We have to tell the citizens the truth. The next thing is that the Ministry of Ecology is also in the past term, and for God's sake and in this mandate, a huge wastes the money of Serbian citizens from the Republic of Serbia's budget. At that time, we had some activities related to ambrosia, mosquitoes and ticks that we counted, according to Minister Dragin, referring to the bill, and now we have some other actions that also spend money, but do not contribute much to what Serbian citizens expect from this parliament, the government and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16873	The word has a People's MP Milan Dimitrijevic, followed by MP Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16874	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS MPs have issued an opinion on this set of laws, along with four other SRS MPs, and there are a few words to say and to state the reasons why we did so. Serbia's public needs to know what the fate of this agenda was, as it was created, as the agenda came, withdrawn from the agenda, in order to find itself again in the assembly procedure after several months. Before I clarify this situation, just one question, since the president is not here, for Madam Vice President, that's the question, it seems to me he's been asked twice and I'm going to ask the third time – why don't we have a committee reporter? Why do we have someone who is chairman of the Legislative Committee and what is this about? Another confirmation of what kind of work the Assembly is doing here. And what kind of organisation of this session is it when laws that are important and important are heard by Mr. Minister, and this will be a creamworth that I will say a few words about, that without proper debate, without sufficient time, run through certain laws and these laws will be passed by the will of the ruling coalition? There's a time, and time is the best judge, when there's a responsibility for what's been done and for what's not done. But to go back, to see what was the fate of this agenda? Already in December 2008, all parliamentary groups in the Assembly agreed that a set of environmental laws is on the agenda. I remind you, November 2008 and now we are at the end of the first quarter of 2009. Is it possible that it takes ninety and more days for such important laws, as the minister said, and I fully agree, to be on the agenda? So, the minister says these laws don't come to the agenda until everything is exhausted from the agenda, only then, referring to environmental laws. I totally agree with that fact, but let's see what's going on. How many important things were before these environmental laws were withdrawn in December and then in January? We didn't know. Let's talk about that time that was lost when the Assembly didn't work, talk about these three days when the Assembly was wasting valuable time, and all that costs Serbian tax collectors. There's one more thing, most of these laws have been in the process for a long time, but let's remind the Serbian public what's been going on. Why weren't these laws in the last assembly? Who was the president of the Parliament in the last session? Mr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Ecology. At the time, there were no more pressing and urgent matters for this kind of law, and there were more things to worry about than the state, than making up pre-election lies. These were the ancestors of things that did not allow these laws to be found on the agenda. The result of such a policy is the current state in which the state is located. The current state is hopeless. Let me remind you what pre-election promises were, should I list them? What time are we in today? Fear of losing a job...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16875	Five minutes, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16876	... out of fear of the police! It's that story back in the 1990s, thanks to the ruling coalition. That's the only thing you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16877	The time available to the rapporteur, or to a member of the committee who issued the opinion, has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16878	Finally, Mr. Minister, in the principle debate and in the discussion of details, you will see how many amendments we have submitted, which should improve this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16879	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic. He's not in the O.R. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Does the rapporteur of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The MPs remained unclear about the order of giving words in the principle debate, and they are getting out of the O.R. In turn, it is asked – the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee and the parent committees. The Committee on Environmental Protection for the Laws that are before us is the Committee on the Environment, at which the word Parliament was to be given in the script, and now it is to be given the opportunity to say the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16880	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, just a few brief notes that I think are very important for the very course of this debate, important for the parliamentary majority who must show more hearing than the one currently showing debate, in our opinion, when I say to our opinion I think of most members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, on very important issues in one irresponsible way. There is no theme in my opinion that crosses and intertwines the interests of our society, the processes of European integration and Serbia's integration with the world. I think that our joint work on the Committee, the work of all members and members, has shown that, despite the divisions, there may be some agreement on the quality of the answer to those problems and issues that have been inherited and threatened all. Much is said by the fact that today we are discussing a set of environmental laws, and that we are in the last place countries that are trying to do it in such a comprehensive and unique way. Certainly, the government deserves support and understanding, given that in a dense agenda and overcrowded agenda it has managed to find space and has allowed us to discuss these laws and thus allowed Serbia to draw closer to the order of the countries that take care of itself and take care of the future they leave behind for generations. What is our common problem is the fact that in this debate there is no possibility of a responsible conversation and discussion. Unite what cannot be done in such a way as the ruling majority in itself will not increase the problem itself, but it will deny us for all those without whom the concept of fighting for a better and healthier environment cannot be valid and efficient. I think that as representatives of the parliamentary majority, you have had to show more tolerance to this subject and thus respect and respect for the representatives of the opposition who at all times showed great understanding to both the Government and the Ministry, respecting their obligations and thus allowing the parliamentary majority to vote in favour of such an important set of laws. These laws stem from EU fluids, a civilized world, and that is what their quality is. These laws show how much we need this Europe. These laws at the same time show some of our inner weaknesses and we need to talk about it openly, and I hope there will be an opportunity for us to do so during the assembly debate. Initiatives that the Committee has faced, which are not only from the Government but also from a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, Chambers of Commerce and individual initiatives of representatives of numerous local self-governments, and we cannot run through them in a united debate in which MPs will also have to talk about environmental laws, laws governing waste management, laws dealing with the field of chemical weapons. It's all mixed up, and it's actually speaking in a critical way very negatively about the government's insecureness, not only of the Ministry, because it's obvious that there is a need for wider support, but also of the government's insecureness in the approach to resolving such big and important issues. I remind you to read all the laws carefully, carefully interpret the amendments that have been submitted, there are many of them, and to try to reach the level that was characteristic of our committee's work here in plenary debate. I hope that these laws will pass, we as a Committee will do everything possible to make these laws better from the Assembly than those who have come to the Assembly, and I am convinced that people who have worked on these laws deserve a lot of respect, people who have been denied this debate for years, ready in advance to understand any intervention and to show beyond understanding and willingness to accept such a thing. Some amendments will make these laws significantly better and better quality and parliamentary majority should take care of it. As for the way in which we as a Committee will treat all these amendments – absolutely evenly, we will discuss each of the amendments, which has been submitted, regardless of the scope and the fact that this will require additional engagement from us, and on behalf of all members and members of the Committee, I would like to thank those representatives of the Ministry who have made it possible for us to work normally and efficiently. What is our common problem is, in fact, everything that follows after these laws, and this problem stems from the devastating fact that life here is still on the edges and that we only remember the environment in the moments of great incidents, and maybe it all commits us to a completely different relationship to such an important subject as the one we're talking about today, and the attention we give it is offensive. As a result, we will work more on the Committee, and I hope that there will be more space in some of the campaigns ahead of us in the area of the environment. Once again, no parliament in Europe has discussed a set of laws in the field of environmental protection in this way. If that's the case, let's at these short intervals that we have to do our best to show the ability that wasn't on the side where there had to be more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16881	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word from the smallest to the greatest? National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, the MP group of the United Pensioners of Serbia's United Party, authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16882	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, has long been put off the need for the harmonisation of regulations with the European Union and the harmonisation of legislation with the European Union to be implemented in the field of production, storage and use of chemical weapons, as well as in the field of organic and non-organic waste management, as well as the law on packaging and packaging waste, and to launch strict application of domestic regulations in this area. The security of nuclear radiation security, responsible handling and destruction of chemical weapons are a permanent and difficult task to which an answer must be provided that engulfs complete security and prevents any incident situations and consequences for the population and facilities. The provision of conditions for the possible prevention of abuse in the use of radioactive and nuclear materials, as well as in the use of chemical materials imposes a strictest and highest level of responsibility on all safety factors. The legal basis for the formation of an independent regulatory body to exercise and exercise control over the ban on the development, production and control of chemical weapons has existed so far, but the development of these weapons in the world requires a new regulation. The agencies envisaged as the best response to a valid and new regulation in order to increase effective control and control of the use of these funds are not in itself sufficient guarantees. It is necessary to care for all the responsible factors in the ageing chain for the application of this law, which would definitely eliminate even the existence of an idea that someone could be involved in the development, manufacture or use of chemical weapons in our country. In addition to several procedural and technical amendments to this bill, improving the quality of the solution in the law, the PUPS will support the adoption of the law on the ban on development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons, as well as its destruction. The PUPS considers that the laws on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety and on protection against non-ionising radiation are another step in full harmonisation of the rules in this area with the global regulation of nuclear and radiation security. We respect the need to define all the legal basis for establishing the necessary capacities to carry out effective control over the application of the measures prescribed by these laws, which relate to the protection against radiation, to the provision of nuclear safety, to the safe management of radioactive waste, and to the safety of all transport nuclear and other radioactive materials throughout our country. The Republic of Serbia has already committed itself as a signatories state to meet all requirements of the Vienna Convention, the Convention on Nuclear Accidents, the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, and so on. These laws only need to be a bridge between the international regulations adopted by ANE-OECD, MOR (International Labour Organisation), FAO or other organisations or our regulations according to our own monitoring. The proposal to take the mandatory measures listed in the standards and contain detailed instructions and assess the level of internal exposure, assess the level of exposure to external sources of radiation, protect patients from radiation, and recommendations for improving the protection and safety of the use of ionising radiation sources in our country are quite well applied. However, the measures to be carried out in the use, reconstruction and modification of research and medical reactors have shown that there are minor small gaps in some places that must be removed in walking, as these are prescribed by security measures from 35-S1, 35-S2 systems up to 50-C-S systems. The PUPS refuses to provide support at any time to select the location of a nuclear facility according to any safety standards and any recommendation on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The PUPS believes our country is rich in renewable energy sources such as solar heat, winds, mass, etc. The WS-R-2 Radioactive Waste Management Directives as well as the recommendations for the classification of radioactive waste to control the emissions of radioactivity in life and in the environment, as well as the TS-R-1 safety transport Directives, are more than combined in the draft of this law. What is a worrying issue for PUPS is material, technical and technological, and professional and personnel preparedness in case of emergency from GS-R-2. It is undeniable that the directive is well set up, and that administrative capacities are also needed to monitor the security of nuclear radioactive security, but it is necessary to know more significantly more about material security in case of emergency. The Directives for the establishment and implementation of the insurance programme on all nuclear and radioactive activities in our country have been implemented and implemented in our practice. The PUPS fully supports the adoption of this law because of the introduction of new higher standards in implementing measures to protect against ionising radiation, and in order to make the law more effective and strictly comprehensive surveillance of radiation sources. The proposal for a chemical law should be the reason for the regulation of chemical management in accordance with the EU, as the current legal regulation did not cover all areas but rather regulated the conditions for the placing on the market of chemicals as well as the way in which chemicals affect human health and the environment. Regulations relating to conditions that must be met by legal and natural persons producing and carrying out the transport of chemicals are governed by other regulations in several laws and not by this special law. This law now obliges states to carry out, from one place, the classification of all toxic substances placed on the market, with responsibility, professionally and scientifically. This applies not only to plant protection and biocidal products but also to chemical substances that pose a risk to carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic processes in the living world and the environment, as well as to the reproduction of living organisms. In addition to this obligation, the country classification refers to the danger of all toxic substances, substances and mixtures based on the definition of poison, giving another approach to classification in domestic regulations. With this approach, classification and labelling of chemicals, the State obliges manufacturers, control body, distributors and end-users to be finally and permanently informed about the properties of chemicals, what they cause, what they promote, what dangers of inadequate use are and whether there is harmfulness per product or citizen who consumes the product. The PUPS supports the proposed measure in the bill, in which both state and distributors and consumers commit themselves to a rigorous and permanent assessment of the impact of the chemical substance on human health and the environment that must be made public and pre-published. It is commendable to move the risk assessment limit from the dangers of using chemical resources between our European regulations, because this is another scale more in risk reduction and gives assurance that any means identified as iolah risky will not enter the list of chemicals. Our list of banned chemicals is much narrower compared to the EU list, which is good for this period of transition and what the PUPS supports, because our area, due to known events, of sanctions, through bombing, has been identified as risky. Elimination of substances that cause concern, and in particular a certain determination of the quality of detergents, in the area of their biodegradability, assures us that the state has a serious intention to make harmonisation of EU instructions and provisions even more stringent in eliminating any danger of bringing unwanted substances into our country. Integrated chemical management, with full involvement of the state and its bodies, strategic access to domestic and international chemical management, as well as full classification, labelling and control of the storage of chemicals and their use, and monitoring of the use of detergents and other chemicals, guarantee that this law on our market will introduce a order that is so necessary. The PUPS believes that the state cannot give up on this obligation, as announced and that the transition period and the economic crisis, and poverty, cannot amnesty anyone responsible for the proper use of chemical resources. The Biocidal Products Act is closer to the definition of chemical products and substances, and it stems from the Chemical Act. Chemical substances and mixtures consisting of micro-organisms, fungi, viruses or composts and other substances, in the area of production, transport and use, shall be governed by this draft law. The state has an obligation to regulate this area, as EU members, and to carry out an assessment of the technical file and to obtain authorisation when placing biocidal products on the market, through reference institutions and laboratories. The PUPS will support solutions under this law, along with a number of technical amendments submitted in terms of repairing expert solutions in the draft law. Proposal for a Waste Management Act and Proposal for a Law on packaging and packaging waste shall be compatible with the laws which have largely responded to the resolution of one of the biggest problems our country has, namely the disposal of municipal organic and non-organic waste and the production and disposal of packaging and packaging waste. There have been long controversy over the development of an important document that would represent a national strategy, and for the rational management of waste at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps this law is a real solution, and perhaps it will contribute to the partial or total fixation of this matter that is so important. The principles and institutes of sustainable development of environmental protection, as well as waste management and packaging waste, have largely been achieved by this bill, and the PUPS has submitted several amendments that should improve legal solutions. We will support the adoption of these laws. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16883	The word is from MP Zoran Bortic, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16884	The Honored President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, respected ministers and representatives of the Government, respected fellow MPs, this set of laws regulates the most important area of social life - environmental protection, which is why the SPS-JS Group came to their preparation with the aim of regulating environmental protection in the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with European standards and international conventions. The adoption of these laws will also create assumptions that sanction all individuals and legal persons who, in their pursuit of profit, violate the ecosystem and endanger biological survival. I would like to remind myself that during the time she was the holder of the government in our country, she paid considerable attention to the legislative area that regulates environmental protection and that in that period from 1991 to 2000, both at the level of the Republic of Serbia and at the level of the SRJ, in which the Republic of Serbia was, adopted a series of laws and ratified several international conventions and agreements that regulate these issues. Most of these legal proposals rely on existing laws and adapt them to modern European norms and standards. Our parliamentary group has put its ideas and initiatives into the drafts of these laws. This time, I'll point only to some. First, by entering the coalition government, we have made it clear that Serbia's integration into the EU is our goal, which means respect for all European values and compliance with domestic normative rules with the European one. Secondly, starting with our programming goals, which place as a priority the preservation of all natural resources for the present and future generations and putting modern technologies in the function of development and better life of every citizen, not just in profit function. These laws regulate social conditions, that every individual, economic operator and community in general, protect the natural resources that we have. Third, fighting for the preservation, application and development of international law and partnership in the international community, in all areas, Parliament's SPS-JS believes that the area of environmental protection, regulated by the laws under consideration at this session of the Assembly, is the best indicator that Serbia joins a group of European nations and states that cultivate and develop high standards of freedom and citizens' rights. In this sense, these laws allow these living conditions of Serbian citizens to be uniformly equal to citizens' standards in the most developed EU countries. Let me briefly refer to the drafts of these laws. First, I want to point out the draft law on the ban on development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. In addition to the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, we are bound by the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination, signed in 2000. Member States of the Convention have undertaken to ensure that legal and natural persons at national level strictly implement the Convention and to build an appropriate legal regime of control through national legislation. This Convention has been further addressed by the adoption of UN SB Resolution 15-40, which further strengthens its implementation. Starting with the fact that the former SFRY was one of the few countries with the capacity to produce chemical weapons, our country's accession to the Convention had multiple significance. This time should point out that the Republic of Serbia, as a legal follower of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, has gained a significant reputation with its responsible attitude towards the Convention. Therefore, the adoption of this law would be fully possible and Serbia would meet its obligation to join the Convention. I would like to remind you that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law on protection against ionic radiation and nuclear security is in Article 97 of point 9 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. During the last decade in the international community, significant changes occurred in the area of control and strengthening of nuclear and radiation security regimes. In order to put this area under tighter control than the existing legislation, it was necessary to create legal assumptions for the formation of an independent regulatory body – the agency for radiation protection and the nuclear safety of Serbia. The formation of this agency increases the efficiency of control and control of the safe application of the source of ionising radiation. I want to highlight the fact that out of the total number of ionising radiation sources used in the Republic of Serbia, 80% are used in medicine, about 15% in industry and about 5% of waste in other activities. A series of newspapers on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety have been installed in the proposal for this law in relation to the legislation previously regulated in the Republic of Serbia. This paper concerns, above all, the introduction of a new format from the content of the laws recommended by the International Atomic Energy Agency to Member States on the harmonisation of the legal frameworks and administrative capacities necessary to provide nuclear and radiation safety and safe management of radioactive waste and safety of transport of nuclear and radioactive material. The paper in the bill is the establishment of an ionising radiation protection agency and the nuclear safety of Serbia, which will implement and implement this law independently as a regulatory body, in accordance with the recommendations of the International Atomic Energy Agency and by the reputation of EU countries and countries in the environment. The law legally regulates the conditions for conducting a nuclear object decommissioning, which has not been regulated so far. The paper in the bill is the adoption of a training and training programme for professionally exposed persons and persons responsible for protecting against ionising radiation. All these measures will be in the role of reducing risk and increasing security and security. In the proposal for a law on protection against non-ionizing radiation, a very complex area is normally regulated, so before there was a system in our country to control the use of a source of non-ionizing radiation. The recommendations of the International Commission for Protection against Non-Employing Emissions of the European Committee for Standardisation of the Council of Europe and the World Health Organisation have served as the basis for this law. In short, all mentioned regulations and standards aim to tighten and standardise the protection measures against non-ionising radiation. It should be pointed out that this bill is also based on knowledge so far from cloud protection from these radiation and regulation not only from EU countries but also from other developed countries of the modern world. In the area of industrial frequencies, the accent is just a place of protection from electrocution, while the adverse effects by human health from the unwanted fact of these radiations have not been considered. The development of the expansion of modern technologies over the past decade, as well as their increasingly massive application, has imposed the need to protect the area from non-ionising radiation in our country's legal office. At the same time, the law will eliminate the monopoly of certain persons on the exclusive right of study, analysis of the impact of monitoring and other measurement and will create conditions for anyone who has staff and equipment in accordance with this law to be involved in one of the areas and activities that he regulates. A particular reason for the adoption of the chemical law, in addition to the obligation arising from Article 97(9) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is the establishment and improvement of a single chemical management system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The law serves to ensure the competitiveness of the economy and to encourage the development of safer alternatives. It should be pointed out that the accent of European regulations governing the management of chemicals is given to the conditions of placing chemicals on the market, i.e. the way to determine their impact on human health and the environment. From the definition of toxic matter, this law concludes that dangerous chemicals are being arranged. This termological inaccuracy has created major problems in law enforcement, which is one of the reasons for the adoption of a new law to regulate this area. The proposal for this law regulates the so-called so-called. the restriction of placing on the market and the use of dangerous chemicals, i.e. the prohibition of certain means of use of dangerous substances, as well as their quantities and concentrations. The current list of banned chemicals in Serbia is much narrower compared to the EU list, so the bill limits and bans are taken over from EU rules. This brings our regulations closer to European standards and contributes to making chemical management easier. The main objective of the application of this law is to put an accent on the proper management of dangerous chemicals, and the current legislation of these areas covered the part relating to plant protection and biocidal products. Biocidal products are chemical substances and mixtures made up of chemical substances, as well as microorganisms, fungi and viruses that are common to have a negative effect on undesirable organisms. These products are used to chemically or biologically destroy undesirable organisms, where these organisms endanger human health or affect their activities, products that humans or animals use for the environment. Biocidal products protect human health, improve product performance and their importance is growing daily. These products are often called agricultural pesticides and have a wide range of applications. These are disinfectants, various preservatives, insecticides, rhodenticides, wood protection products, etc. According to their properties and purposes, these products are similar to plant protection products, but unlike plant protection products where it is legally regulated that they cannot be placed on the market until their impact and effects on human health are checked. The current legal regulation in our country does not provide for the uniform regulation of the production and placing on the market of biocidal products. This is one of the basic reasons why this law is passed. The proposal for a waste management law, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption, is a brand-new concept of waste management, since there has been no organised legal regulation system in this area so far. The 2003 Waste Management Strategy will review these legal texts. The law will oblige economic operators to submit reports on waste management annually. The proposal for this law is based on the principles of EU law and its adoption and application will contribute to greater and faster compliance of our regulations with the European law. The text of the law includes the concepts, types and classification of waste and the way in which waste planning and waste management are carried out at all levels. It should be pointed out that the law very precisely regulates waste management entities, manufacturers, owners, carriers, collectors, operators, etc. For each of these categories, it determines precise obligations and responsibilities. At the same time, the law clearly lays down competences for the issue of waste management permits. The application of this law involves the development of public awareness of adequate waste management and, of course, it is a process that will take a long time. In this regard, education of the population and training of staff in charge of work and control in this area is necessary. The adoption and application of this law will lay down rules in the field of waste management from its creation to final disposal, as well as the right and obligations of each entity in the chain of responsibility, from citizens to the state. The proposed legal solutions regulate the responsibility of all those entities in the field of waste management, but the legislative, technical, economic and social aspects of its application are realised. In particular, it should point to the social aspects of the application of this law concerning public awareness development, professional training and better human education. Dear fellow MPs, a basic document providing conditions for rational and sustainable waste management at the level of the Republic of Serbia is the 2003 National Waste Management Strategy. This document provides for the need for institutional strengthening of this area, the development of legislation that will regulate waste management and the education and development of public awareness at all levels of society. For these reasons, in addition to the indicative management of waste regulated by the waste law, the need to pass packaging and packaging waste laws is imposed and that this area is permanently regulated. The objectives of this law are to ensure, in accordance with the principle of sustainable development, the conservation of natural resources, the protection of the environment and human health, the development of modern technologies, the production of packagings and the establishment of an optimal packaging management system and packaging waste with the principle of the sharing of responsibilities and functioning of the market, prevention, the creation of trade barriers, the avoidance of disturbances and restrictions in competition. The harmonisation of these rules is also necessary because of the fact that our country is making most of its trade exchange with EU countries. It should be pointed out that the proposal for this law has been prepared in accordance with the Directives on packaging and packaging waste of the EU whose principles are respected. In this sense, the text of the law incorporates the European principle of sharing the responsibilities of all economic operators, in accordance with the principle of 'paying polluter'. A formal agreement between the Government and all interested business entities and partners is being introduced as a voluntary agreement. Such a principle refers to the achievement of national objectives, i.e. the quota for the recovery of all types of packaging waste in accordance with the best practice of EU member states. It also provides for the possibility of the transfer of the obligation of packaging waste management to a third party, which, on behalf of the mandatory parties in this law, provides for further management of packaging waste. The law will also have a positive impact on importers, exporters and end-users, with clear inclusion of their rights and obligations, as well as on chargers, suppliers and suppliers, packaging and packaging waste carriers and packaging system operators. The proposed legal solutions shall provide the rights, obligations and responsibilities of all those entities in the field of packaging management and packaging waste, on the one hand, and of the competent authorities, on the other hand. Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to point out, at the very end, that many international experiences of countries that have already established these systems have been used in the draft of these laws, as well as different designs, studies and evaluations of domestic experts. That is why the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16885	The word has been passed by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16886	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I will try to cross these few laws within these 20 minutes, some of which are very important system laws and tell everyone about what is a problem and why citizens need to know what the essence of that law is. So I'm going to start with a chemical weapon, which is first in this order that was established here. It is a kind of weapon whose aim is to poison and incapacitate enemies, i.e. humans and contamination of the terrain, as well as to poison cattle and plants. Serbia's problem is the contamination of the terrain, because after 1999 and the NATO bombings, we have come to a situation that Serbia's territory is covered with radioactive uranium, an impoverished uranium of 238. What is important is to comment publicly, although this is not the way to speak in this country, i.e. I should mention that before the Italian Parliament there was a debate on why their soldiers who were in one part of KIM were sick. Of those 225 soldiers 47 died of cancer, and 25 children of soldiers who were then on KIM territory, who were shot with poor uranium, were given children with some genetic defects that were directly the consequences of this bombing. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia speaks little of it. Unfortunately, we here as Parliament are silent, and when such a law comes before us – we need to run it in two minutes and 17 seconds. I have one more thing to say. It's not just us out there being hit by this poor uranium, but that ammunition contained -- and cobalt, and cesium, and radium 226, and thorium and uranium 235, which is all harmful to human health, and it's all a problem that we're facing today, because medicine says that we practically have "a cancer epidemic in Serbia's territory, especially in KIM territory". This is also the data from medicine – that one third of this poor uranium is 238, which is inhaled, rapidly soluble and quickly leaving the body, while two thirds of it remains long in the body and the gradual accumulation gives high doses of radiation, leading to disease. This uranium has another unpleasant feature of being a strong ionicator, so it starts to act very quickly on the energy value of the cell and the cells are starting to get sick. Only in 2005 did the state start to deal with this issue a little more seriously. In fact, in 2005, 2006 and 2007, then Minister Aleksandar Popovic began activity – decontamination of the terrain that suffered, which is four territories in Serbia. The first layer of land has been removed and stored in Vinci, which is quite inadequate, because Vinci has no adequate way of accepting radioactive elements. On the other hand, the next series was to be done – land remediation, in fact, at these speculative locations of the crew of culture that have such properties to extract radioactive particles and to melt it into their root system. Such a culture is an oatmeal, of course, it cannot be used either for human or cattle use after harvest. I purposely say this because many political parties, as part of their political programme, have stories that Serbia should join NATO. Just to remind ourselves, that maybe NATO would have bombed Serbia a little better if Serbia had been among them. I must also say that the Law implementing the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons since 2005, i.e. for the purpose of applying this Convention, has been prepared and the draft law in 2007, of course, was the Government of Vojislav Kostunica, and since 2007, is in the process and here today, my dear colleagues and dear citizens of Serbia, is the first time ahead of us. Serbia is otherwise dealing with this problem very seriously. We also formed the ABHAO Center in Kruševec. We have a VMA mobile toxicological chemical team and they worked very actively and very sacrificed during the war, so that this team has not only passive knowledge, but, unfortunately, it had to be very active on the ground. The chemical law is just as interesting. This is one set of chemical laws. The chemical law is interesting, because it does not determine this whole area, does not regulate this whole area, but only regulates the placing of some chemicals and chemical products on the market, which is at all the intensity of European laws. On the other hand, the question of the safety of people's health at work is governed by some other law, the other ministry, as well as the protection of the environment, which I think, from what I see in practice, which is why people most often address us, where there are more competences, simply has a problem with law enforcement. We really have one problem right now, it's repeatedly pointed out here, that I'm not talking about it now, because it seems to me that I'm going through some very important things, such as waste management, and I'm not going to be able to talk about it, the goal is to set up, maintain and improve a single chemical system on the chemical market and reduce their adverse impact on people's health. We have a revised and clear way of classification in the law, but our problem is that the law provides for the establishment of the Chemicals Agency – it is a weak link in the chain, because it takes a lot of resources and space, and people, and also means of education. That's how I find this law in this part inapplicable. Although I have been collecting for years newspaper articles relating to various problems, so I have gathered some interesting things, which have been public for the past few months. Here in some parts of Belgrade, i.e. we have Zvecanska Street, where, for example, in the warehouse, in the warehouse of the company "Protekta", therefore, it is all in settlements, in populated areas, found very many chemicals that are not protected. We have a story about Helios, that I don't talk much about it, because I'm really afraid that time is passing and that I won't be able to tell everything. A set of these laws on biocidal products is actually a set that can be classified as chemicals, although biocides themselves cannot be classified as chemicals. Mr. Bortic said a lot about what biocidal products are. They are, therefore, simply afraid that the citizens of Serbia will not fully understand me, that some MPs will not understand me because it is a lot of products used – in households, especially where bathrooms are, where kitchens, resources used in hospitals, in restaurants, in swimming pools, in air-conditioning, in pipes, in pests. It's something that's part of our lives, and it's good that this law is in front of us, because it's a law that regulates one matter that has been completely unregulated so far. We had a situation that many biocidal products were on the market, and then it was later concluded that they were harmful to the health of citizens and the environment, but it's very complicated when you do damage to reduce that damage. It's interesting what the objectives of this law are, which is why it's important. Thus, the adoption of this law protects the health of people, animals and the environment. It should allow free flow of goods with EU and other countries and make our products highly competitive. It is very important that this set of laws be adopted on a one-time basis because this law governing chemicals when the law on transport and the production of toxic substances, which partially regulates this area and biocidal products, will remain unprotected. It is therefore important to adopt a law on chemicals and biocidal products at the same time. Furthermore, the law on ionic and non-ionizing radiation – what makes it an interesting topic for citizens? First of all, everyone uses virtually mobile phones and radios and TV devices, and lately they are popular and solarium, and that area is legally completely uncovered, and doctors do not always serve whether solariums are healthy or not healthy and how negative they can affect people’s health. So that's basically what every citizen of ours is interested in and that's why it's important for this law to be in front of us. Also, I'm talking about non-ionising radiation, the problem is that many mobile phone base cells have appeared in Serbia. Also, there are shared opinions on how they affect human health and environmental protection, and we have to admit that they are practically placed in settlements and some are very close to settlements. This matter is not regulated by law today, as many ministries interfere with jurisdiction and give licenses to set up base stations. This law needs that story finally to be courted and solved. It is very important to say that citizens need to be informed about radiation from non-judicial radiation and that it is quite a task to do so and therefore we need to talk about it. When it comes to ionizing radiation, it's much wider. Sources of ionising radiation in Serbia are used, about 80% in medicine, 15% in industry, and only 5% is used for other activities. What I was practically saying was a little through this first set of chemical weapons, and I was talking about four locations in the territory of Serbia, without KIM, it's Bratoselce, Borovac – Bujanovac, Reljan – Presevo and Omlječevica – Vranje, which were contaminated by poor uranium, which then started to decontaminate these areas in 2005, 2006 and 2007. I must say, it's interesting that three times this law was in the assembly procedure, one time while Mr. Dulic was president of the assembly. To say a few more things that are interesting, about these laws, about the simplest life of citizens, these are medical devices, because 80% of radiation comes from medicine, so doctors and patients are exposed, and it's a good time to ask the question of when and how long x-rays will be used as they are in Serbia, although I must admit that in recent years a lot has been done to replace outdated medical equipment. Now we have digital x-rays, but there's still a lot of x-rays of the old generation, they're semi-wave and four-way X-ray machines. Of course, it's very important to say the possibilities and speed that this is going to change, but it's also important to mention another source of radiation, these are radioactive thunders. You know that by 2000 virtually at all public facilities, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, such thunderstorms were placed and that only in 2000 did one great action to remove these thunderbolts begin and yet 1,300 objects still have radioactive thunderbolts. This law covers the area in part, actually covers it. It is very important to achieve the deadlines by which these thunderheads should be removed as soon as possible and in this direction we have given very concrete amendments, which I think should be accepted. I think that's what needs to be said about this, and if I had more time, I'd have a lot of concrete things to talk about. Now I'd like to talk a little bit about waste management, because that's one topic that's interesting in Serbia. It is one of the biggest environmental problems in Serbia, and I think it should be spoken of much more than those unfortunate two minutes. In Serbia, we do not have integrated data on the production, quantity and method of disposal. An estimated 2.2 million tonnes of waste is collected annually, including household waste, around 63%, the average citizen of Serbia annually generates around 290kg of waste. Then, we have what is important, non-hazardous industrial waste about 20% and all that over 17% is waste from health institutions, slaughterhouse waste, waste from oil wells in Vojvodina, construction waste, therefore, waste that can really be a problem for Serbia's citizens' health. All this waste is delayed at dumps, official in Serbia is around 180, but they are not technical, they do not meet the technical conditions of sanitary dumps, except Vranj. It is estimated that about two-thirds of the municipal waste is collected in cities, while one-third of it is wastes in villages and other settlements, which means that villages and other villages are left behind and left to themselves, to create wild dumps and dumps throughout Serbia. I think we should finally get rid of it. According to the project's Dangerous and Medical Waste Management Plan, between 230 thousand and 460 thousand tonnes of hazardous industrial and medical waste are produced annually in Serbia, including that waste on motor oils, mixed organic-led emulsions and others. Of the 40,000 tonnes of medical waste, which is produced annually in Serbia, a fifth is dangerous to people's health. These are treated needles, syringes, bandages and gauze. It should be said that these are dangerous wastes for the citizens of Serbia and for the health of the environment and for the citizens of Serbia, but it should also be said that in recent years it has been very much done in this direction, that many health institutions have received a complete machine for crushing and breaking these unused syringes and can then, under such circumstances, be placed on dumps that are otherwise used for all other types of waste. To what extent was the case left behind in Serbia, you know the media case, that radioactive thunderstorms were found in municipal waste. So I'm not talking about dogs and cats dragging all this junk that can be and how dangerous it is for Serbia's health. I already mentioned Vinci from two warehouses for solid and liquid radioactive waste. Also, there are underground tanks for liquid radioactive waste, but instead of helping Vinci get rid of this radioactive waste storage project in some way, we practically shut down the payment of projects, so what she was getting from the state now won't have a chance to get any more. In 2003. Serbia has adopted the National Waste Management Strategy with the EU approach programme and we are now coming up with a famous topic of recycling, a topic that is both important and important and much to talk about, and how much we have had this story, especially in recent months, that about 5,000 cars will, in principle, be recycled in Serbia. Since there are a lot of questions in this direction, the minister remains to answer how he's gotten to nine companies that can do car recycling, because 50 of them, as far as I know, all meet the conditions, because they work, I suppose, meet the conditions. Interestingly, some of these companies have reported that they did not participate in any competition, so they do not know by which criteria they were chosen, so it would be good to hear that too. In addition, we have a national strategy of how many tyres we can burn in cements, and we have a new 25 thousand tires, because five thousand car times five tires is 25 thousand new tyres, so the theme of recycling is, and the minister mentions, I'm very closely following the press, that concessions will be possible in this area, so I just don't see it in the law, and I find it interesting to get a few answers to those questions, because the public is very upset with who, for example, is going to burn the tires. As a Committee on Environmental Protection, we are constantly getting complaints from the citizens from Koseric, Mr. Minister was in the field and concluded that the cement factory there does not meet all the conditions for burning tires. It's very important this area, and it's very important to talk about this, because we have a pretty distasteful environment, or the environmental situation is quite alarming. More than 400 organic bombs have been set up in Serbia. I have an article here that's very interesting, that says how many places it is, where it's stored all over Serbia's cities. Look, in Serbia's cities, what happened with "Long" is just one of those things. There's a lot of interesting things here that need to be discussed. That's why it seems to me that I've been taken away from time from myself and other MPs to speak very clearly and very precisely about those laws that are and how important they are, because the system laws, the first laws in this area that are completely unregulated, which can bring a lot of money to this country to Serbia, but it can create a lot of problems for her if we treat it lightly and if we get into this with our throats in strawberries, how else do we have the habit of doing it? We have a problem with the waste storage, so I'm interested in the storage of 5,000 cars. Where they're going to be stored, since our manner has been lately, since we have this incompetent government, to cover a campaign first in the media, and then watch what hit us behind it, because we're asking where 5,000 cars are going to be stored that are going to show up at one point, or 100, or 250, or 700, that are going to show up at one point, and you said how many people have reported wanting to participate in this program. So, who's gonna store it? Who's going to do the Limaria recycling? Who's going to do the tire recycling? Who's going to do recycling, say, seats and everything? These are interesting questions for the citizens of Serbia, especially for those who know that our businesses are not fully prepared for recycling, i.e. it is very important for us not to do what lies in these companies...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16887	It's been 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16888	... but what comes out of it. So these are interesting questions. I'm sorry I haven't been able to say a word about packaging and packaging waste, as a very important law, but it all goes to the soul of the President of Parliament and the one who made this agenda. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16889	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16890	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, this item of the agenda or the set of agenda points that we are discussing reminds me of that password of the 'green', that without democracy there is no ecologicality, as there is no democracy. It is good to at least bring a set of environmental laws in 2009, which is a good sign that democracy is knocking on Serbia's door. I want to remind you, perhaps someone remembers, someone not, that the first rally of the opposition in Serbia, a rally that was banned, was to be held here on 29 May 1990 in the Square of Nikola Pasic, practically in front of this building, and the idea of this rally was to prevent it from doing 'Basno chemistry' in Baric, because it produced a plant based on fosgen and liquid chlorine, the same matter as Bopal in India, and the title of that rally was 'We Prevent Bopal in Serbia'. That rally was banned by the authorities back then. They brought in water cannons, cordon, tear gas, save God, the organizer of the rally was DS, it was original, integrated, and I must in some way praise that I was then, twenty years ago, the initiator of that action, since Baric was in the Obrenovac municipality area, and then by sticking to the second password of the 'green' – think globally, act locally, I just want to draw the public's attention to the dramatic situation regarding the protection of the environment in Obrenovac. Obrenovac is an ecological ghetto in Serbia due to the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant. The soil, water and air are polluted. That's more or less what you're talking about. The construction of the new "Nikola Tesla B-2" or "Nikola Tesla B-3", along the "Nikola Tesla B" thermal power plant, is announced, on the mouth, on the way from Obrenovac to Šapac, about 20km. I'm taking the opportunity to ask the Honorable Minister Dulic, in this western part of Europe where the last thermopower plant was built? I'd like to hear the answer to that question, but not in Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Belarus, but in this Central and Western Europe? The thermal power plant is a source of pollution especially in our conditions. I would also ask for the protection of life, standards, health of the citizens of Obrenovac and the environment to ensure the setting of measurement cells, to see every day the percentage of pollution, at least air, of several tons of ash coming out through the chimneys of the Termoelectrica, more tones on one power plant, more tons of other power plants and more tons of ash from one and another dump, and in that ash you have both carbon dioxide and heavy metals, because there are lead and especially live. All plants are polluted. I would also ask Minister Dulic to make known to the public how much in Obrenovac and the surrounding area has increased the rate of respiratory disease, respiratory organs, cancerous diseases, and it will be seen that it is several times more than in other parts of Serbia? Maybe a few dozen times. There are even court rulings. The children are suffering from allergic asthma. The verdicts have been made. Institute of Vinci and Medical College experts have established a causal link between child disease and pollution coming from the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant. I see Mr. Dulic had one critical interview in "Politicals"...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16891	Mr. Batic, it's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16892	... I'm finishing up, so I'd like to make it public, whether non-purposely spent funds transferred to the Obrenovac municipality for environmental protection, as well as another detail, since I started, with this ending, no more TDI campaign has yielded fruit and this plant TDI in the composition of the pool chemistry has been sold, but TDI has been sold. As raw materials were placed in some 20 tin barrels of 50 liters each, they pointed to some associations for a better life, a green obrenovac, and they were buried on a dump in Obrenovac. Experts say the consequences can be inconclusive, but compared to those of existing thermopower plants and possibly new ones that have to be built, this is to a lesser extent. I appeal to the minister and the authorities to take action to protect the health and life of the citizens of Obrenovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16893	Mr. Dulic wants a word. I'd like to inform you that we won't be in direct transmission from 17.55 hours, so I suggest we finish at that moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16894	Madam President informs us there will be no transmissions since 6:00, so let's finish, and we'll proceed tomorrow. At 17.35, the transmission is interrupted. I've got six minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you very much, you have asked a few very important questions. As I understand it, most of you who spoke on behalf of the parliamentary groups essentially support the adoption of these laws and, as I understand it, most of you support the laws themselves, along with some changes. I can say, Mr. Jovanovic, above all, I thank him and all members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment for correct co-operation. We've done a lot together and we'll do it in the future. What I must also give you as one promise is that these laws are just the beginning of the introduction of the instruments of a new ecological policy. Following the adoption of these laws, a large number of sublegal acts will be produced that will help to regulate these areas closer. We will, of course, meet through the Committee on Environmental Protection both MPs and citizens of Serbia on the measures we intend to take. I wanted to give you a few concrete answers to the questions you asked in these very short four minutes. It was mostly criticism and nobody says that we don't deserve criticism, but we want to say that we do a lot of work, I think, personally. I think it's the opinion of many, that in the last few months, the topic of the environment has become one of the topics around which much more is considered and which appears in the media than it used to be. It is, among other things, the consequence of working and you as MPs and us as people who work at the Ministry and the overall concern for the environment that exists at the level of the whole world. I think it's good, it shouldn't be criticized, it should be supported. We did a public opinion survey that showed that the degree, or level of awareness of the importance of the environment, of citizens at a very low level, and we can say that we just started to work on raising the level of consciousness. We hope that we will succeed and I think that by the end of the year we will be carrying out the "Let's Clean Serbia" action, at the end of the year, when we are doing a public opinion survey, we will find that many more citizens and have taken part in environmental actions, but we understand the importance and reasons why we need to pay much more attention to the importance of a cleaner environment in the future. As for criticism about why I was president of this house, there were no more environmental laws, or no more environmental laws, I must say that that is not true. So, in the period since 2007-2008, when we were together in the coalition, I am giving this in response to an esteemed MP who asked that question, the National Assembly ratified the Kyoto Protocol, and has passed very important laws concerning environmental impact assessment and strategic environmental impact assessments in the cross-border context, defining several very important documents concerning the protection of certain species of birds, European wild flora and fauna. At that time, we did not pass a few laws, the fact that they were in the congregation procedure, because we were then in pursuit of the constitutional law obligations, and you remember very well the very difficult period in which we also had the declaration of independence of Kosovo and our reaction as states to that and many other topics that burdened political life and it was not realistic then that we expected to pass any of these laws. If it had been a little longer, I'm sure these real life topics, such as the environment, would have come to the agenda, but we worked very hard to get some of them. As for the issues of our reaction to the consequences of the NATO Pact bombing, it is not true that we are covering up the truth about it, it is not true that we are actively not involved in promoting what they are, unfortunately, the consequences. The Ministry of Environment has actively participated in a publication that will be promoted on 29 April in the Academy of Science and Art, on the consequences of NATO bombing, and this will be our contribution to the marking of this sad event that happened 10 years ago. It is true that it has left a very severe impact on the health of the population in areas where the used missiles in which the uranium was also poored, and it is true that it should be spoken of openly. And we stand on it and we talk about it openly. The question was also about car recycling and the question to me was very small, which is – who defined the nine companies that are now authorised, I must say, for this temporary action concerning only one number of vehicles that will be replaced at the price-subsidized? All those in Serbia who meet the conditions given in the Government of the Republic of Serbia's manual are on the list. If anyone exists in Serbia who meets those conditions and is not on that list, at the same time contact the environment ministry and will be on the list. We did not make a list and did not call a competition, nor did we assign it to any kind of belonging, sympathies, etc., but according to strictly defined conditions that imply the previous impact study on the environment and the existence of different types of procedures that involve safe disposal, disassembly of the vehicle and monitoring of the flows of each of the types of waste resulting from the disassembly of the vehicle. It is also an answer to your question – what will happen to 5,000 vehicles and where it will be placed. It will not be placed anywhere, because they break down according to the standards of how it should be done in the European Union. They're folding into components. It is precisely known that the procedure for monitoring each of the waste streams and that it is antifreeze, that it is waste oil, that it is about tyres, that it is about batteries, and that it is about chess and that it is about other parts. On the Ministry site there is a list of all companies that manage specific waste flows and which have adequate permits to do so. So everything is circled as one well-organized system. Please help us, if you know someone who meets these conditions without being accidentally registered by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, we will do it very quickly, because we believe that everyone must participate in the recycling industry. Recycling is the future, recycling is one new industrial branch. I'm sure of it this year, when many industrial branches are about to drop, they're going to record growth. Recyclation is an industry in Serbia that is likely to employ a lot of people this year, and we need these laws to do so. To solve all these problems and to answer all these questions that you've been giving us today, these are the laws that are the solution. We need these laws as a powerful tool and a weapon to bring a whole new reality into the environment, to create new jobs, to fix the situation. And again I repeat what I said at the beginning, these aren't the things that need to separate us, these laws aren't antagonistic, these laws are laws that, I agree, I think we all have to agree, we all have to support them together in these days, and hopefully we'll do enough to vote on the last day, most of you, I'd like you all to vote for these laws, because they primarily help our citizens and future generations live one better and cleaner life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-02-0.u16895	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the exact quorum, given that the electronic system is not yet in operation, please the service, in accordance with Article 86(7), to count the members of the National Assembly present. After counting, it was found that at this point in the Hall of 129 MPs, that more than one third of the MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the National Assembly to begin work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending meetings of MPs Velimir Ilic, Jelena Travar-Miljević and Susana Grubjesic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for meetings, apart from the proposing representatives, to be attended by Miladin Avramov, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, Aleksandar Vesic, Ljiljana Stanojevic and Jelena Cvetkovic, assistant ministers, then Ivica Radovic, State Secretary and Momcilo Zivkovic, director of the Environment Agency. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the ban on development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction (joint principled search with 3, 4, 5, 6, 12 and 13) Mr Milan Dimitrijevic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Dimitrievich, you have your word.
