ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of MPs, 129 MPs are in the Assembly. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the MPs' voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs have found that there are working conditions. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, let me inform you that part of today's session, from the very beginning, will be accompanied by a group of students from the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade. Please welcome them. The gallery includes the following students: Viktor Šogorov, Ivana Vlajić, Vesna Miskovic, Ivana Pajić, Sanja Ješić, Aleksandra Pejović, Olja Milevic, Lav Boris Kozakievich, Enes Dinić, Filip Milenković, Igor Radak, Nenad Zelelac, Miroslav Balas, Jelena Vujasin, Djordje Radojić, Milos Marković, Predrag Stojanović, Jelena Andrejić, Nikola Drobot, Mihajlo Protic, Milica Đoković, Bojana Brajkov, Goran Damjanović, Nebojša Manojlović, Ana Mitić, Marija Javic, Dragana Savić, Slavica Marković, Adriana Askrabić, Filip Lesarovski, Andrej Boj Bojić, Natasaž and Helena Tomić. [[Applause]] Whether one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups present or not wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I'm reporting under Rule 27 of Paragraph 1 of the first indent 3, and I think the chairman of the Rules of Procedure is taking office. Yesterday I tried to exercise my right. Unfortunately, I have not come across an understanding, so I would ask you to answer me when I can use the right of Article 202, where it is said: "After the answer to the parliamentary question given, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. After receiving an answer to the additional question, the MP has the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes." Yesterday I tried to get a notice from the chairman and I earned two warnings. You know, I have a feeling that there are more orderly things in the penitentiary home than the Serbian Parliament, because it's not allowed to behave like it thinks and what it thinks, but there are certain rules that are precisely defined -- when it has the right to use force, when it has the right to use some other means, and when I can use my right based on Rule 202, I get two warnings, and I don't get an answer to my rights arising from the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you most nicely to answer me when I can use my right under Article 202. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31232	Mr. Todorovic, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The contents you have just presented relate to yesterday's session, and you as an experienced parliamentarian know well that you can contact the Rules of Procedure immediately after it has been done. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure in today's session, and there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. But if you are not satisfied with this answer, in the voting day, the Assembly can be declared. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Todorovic, re-advertises.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31233	Reporting under Article 104. You really insult dignity, Mrs. Djukic. You, too, are not a young Parliamentarian, you have a lot of training as far as it goes, and you know that the Rules of Procedure means certain rules and that, if someone asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't have to be because of a breach of procedure or anything. Article 27 paragraph 1 of the third indent speaks not of a breach of procedure but of your obligation to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. I do not complain about a breach of procedure at today's session, I appeal because I have been denied the right as an MP to use Article 202. I'm asking you, just like I asked yesterday, and you're answering me for something I didn't ask you. Imagine me asking you what your name is, and you say, "I told Veljak Odalovic, let him tell you." What does that have to do with anything? Please tell me, when do I have the right to exercise my parliamentary right under Article 202? Simple question, give me a simple answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31234	Mr. Todorovic, what I would like to say to you yesterday, you received an answer from Mrs. Comic. Does anyone want a word in accordance with Article 235? Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31235	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, I think the whole of Serbia knows what I'm going to ask Mrs. President. So, it concerns 520m euros that were marketed by companies whose owners are in the closest environment of President Tadic. I'm talking about Mr. Shaper, Mr. Nebojsa Krstic, Milica Delevic-Gilas and Mr. Dragan Gilas. For the sake of truth and for the sake of what I promised the citizens, both in my Chačka and everywhere I was in Serbia, that I would not give up this question, I want to say that some answers to the questions I asked, which I did not get a business response to, have begun to come. For the sake of truth and for the sake of informing all Serbian citizens to tell you what I got from Mr. Miljko Radisavljevic, the special prosecutor. I'm going to multiply and I'm going to give it to the press here, to those who are allowed to publish it. He gave confirmation of one as if he was looking for Dragan Gilas, you know when you're taking out confirmation that you're not convicted and that no investigation is being conducted. I'm asking the D.A. to conduct an investigation. I got an answer from Home Secretary Mr. Dacic, who says the police are not doing anything about it. I didn't ask this, Madam President, for the sake of order and for some glory. I have serious threats and it's not easy for me. Perhaps I have moral encouragement for being approached by MPs from all MPs and congratulating me on civic courage. I don't think I'm particularly brave, I just think I'm holding on to saying that something I promised the citizens, both in my Casca and in all of Serbia, I want to drive out here as much as my power is. I repeat, our students are here today, they're on the streets, they're looking for free schooling, because they claim, and all over Europe as far as we can see, that knowledge is not a commodity, that conditions must be created that everyone is studying who wants and who can, and not just those who have money. Therefore, Madam President, I ask how these people have earned, have received 520m euros, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 520m euros I will repeat as long as I live and while I am here an MP and until the investigation is launched. I don't want worthless papers from the rest ministers. It should be said for the truth that Mr. Sabic called and since Telecom Serbia, Clinical Centre, Parking Service, Refugee Hair, Madam President, a health institution where the director has been arrested, they will not give answers to questions about what type of contracts with companies and companies the owners of which are listed gentlemen. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests replied that it has initiated proceedings against Mr Gilas, Milice Delevic-Dilas and Mr Krstic. They say he's not a functionary. Today being a member of the presidency of the all-powerful DS is much more than a functionary. Mr. Radyuko, director of Telecom, reported to one of our officials and voiced a voice that said he wasn't guilty. Now I want to remind the citizens that this is the company Telecom, which last year has increased, in the profit of several tens of millions of euros, increased the price of services on impulses for citizens, we all protested here for that, 63%. I doubt that money's in private pockets. Therefore, we are obliged as people, as representatives of citizens here in front of this young man who looks at us like we are here, in front of these students to say that it is possible that there is no money for students, that they have to, like, 10 or 12 years ago, when you were in power, Madam President, to protest again, to see yesterday and the Orthodox symbol -- the cross, that they must come before the government and with the cross, and with their spirit and joke. Have we lived in a democracy for ten years, have we made some shift to come again? I repeat and repeat while I'm here - I'm not satisfied, I didn't get answers to the questions I asked, I didn't get an answer from you president. In your announcement of the fall session, you said that this National Assembly would play its own supervisory role in implementing the law, so in implementing the law that should prevent corruption. What do you do and what do you intend to do personally? I stand at your service to help. And finally, since there's obviously no answer, I'm looking for a polling committee on what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31236	Mr Markicevic, on many occasions you ask a question, you say it is your civic and parliamentary obligation. On several occasions, all these issues are being passed on to those in charge of all the issues you raise. That is the maximum of what parliament can do at this point. Mr. Dragan Todorovic advertises the Rules of Procedure or are you answering? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31237	First of all, Mrs. Dejanovic, I have the same problem as Mr. Markicevic. Where are the answers to questions? I asked you last quarter to invest all of your authority to get a final answer regarding the assets of the former SK, SSRN and the Alliance of Socialist Youth. It is something about 300 objects, and I am expressing a serious concern that these facilities are being sold, that they are being misused, and under the Law on the financing of political parties 50% of the use of these objects has parliamentary parties. After all this time, and without an answer, I objectively doubt it's a major crime and someone has to answer for it, and you're not doing anything about it. That we live in a country of crime, it's a day-to-day fact, and we find out about some new things every day. We have now learned that our Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and the owner of actions in the Yugoslav Copyright Agency, 5.62% of shares. You remember "The Duke of Meridian Bank", and so he had actions worth 11m euros. We don't know how much these Cvetkovics are worth. I asked a few questions when it comes to the Privatisation Agency, which was headed by Mirko Cvetkovic, that at the time Ces Mekon had done a consulting privatisation worth about half a billion dinars. At the same time, he was CEO of Ces Mekon, so the son of the owner of Ces Mekon was with Mirko Cvetkovic at the Property Directorate, and as far as I can hear his son, Mirko Cvetkovic's son, is now in Ces Mekon. It's just amazing, you're destroying this country, so you steal every step and there's no boundaries. Instead of doing something about it, you just fold your shoulders and explain to us that you have passed the question. But there's something else you need to do. Look at today's newspaper, says - the directors of the Privatisation Agency set up a financial consulting firm. Well, that's what I'm talking about, consulting the mob, four billion dinars have been taken for allegedly consulting on the sale of Serbian assets they sold for nothing. Everybody shut up, pretend like nothing's going on. Unfortunately, you're not just destroying the state this way, robbing it, you're essentially destroying it to the limit when it won't be able to restore it. I ask the question: who granted approval to take a training flight over Serbia on the AN 30, Romanian Air Force, with eight crew members on November 19th? At the head of this mission was Colonel Rainhold of the German Armed Forces and two Italian Armed Forces. He says the action was within the open sky. We are not a member of this association, and this flight says it is possible to gain insight into military and civilian infrastructure. I'm asking a question-- amen people, did anyone have any normal in that government, do they have a normal man? We are not members of this open sky.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31238	Mr. Todorovic, if you continue to use those terms, I will give you a warning. Keep an eye on the terminology you're using.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31239	That's a rhetorical question, I didn't say no, I'm just asking a question, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and you already think it's something different from me, but it's up to you, not me. So I'm asking a question to give me an answer: who approved this flight? Because this is what the law says, and it's a serious crime. You know, in any normal state, if someone did this, they'd have to answer in accordance with the law real quick.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31240	It's been five minutes, thank you. Dear Members of the Parliament, there is no problem in using a strong argument if there is one, but the terminology must be suited to the dignity of this high home. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is currently under way in action designed and implemented by Serbian President Boris Tadic's immediate environment, people extremely paid to help a government that has no strategy, to make it a survival tactics in power. All the media and all the press are under a lot of pressure. This is seen by behavior, and by titles, subtitles, headlines, questions asked by the conversators. Simply, the goal is to preserve power at all costs and DS and its president, Boris Tadic, in order to achieve that goal, do not choose the funds. Since this immediate environment is unsatisfactory with its salaries, which it receives as a cabinet or as a court chamber of presidents of Serbia, they have their own private firms that co-operate exclusively with public enterprises because it is the safest job, since it is the job that is paid in Serbia and because it is a job that is extremely well paid. I ask the question of the finance minister, the minister of education, the minister of health, and I could include all the ministries this year, since Serbia's budget was cut by about 500m euros because public enterprises, under the control of DS, G17 plus and other peytos, co-operate with these companies -- how much of the money that Dilas, Shaper, Krstic and others in the environment of President Tadic could be spent on schooling students this year? How much out-of-body fertilization could have been done free of charge for Serbian citizens who otherwise cannot have a birth, from extra-profit money earned by companies that have an office, mobile phone and owner who is directly surrounded by Serbian President Boris Tadic? Serbia is sinking deeper, and they are becoming richer. They have been so isolated, that even for them they no longer represent the DS MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to whom the burden of responsibility for the poor work of the government falls, which they embarrass every time they come in a car, their own or their friends, to a session of the Assembly, which is beset by those who are fighting and against the SNS, they also fight very well against their colleagues from the DS, who count even the money spent for lunch at the congregation restaurant. Those who have hundreds of millions of euros earned on the basis of the DS being the party that has been in power for nine years in the Republic of Serbia. So, how much trouble we could solve if it wasn't for people who had become engrossed in obtaining money by using the privilege it offers that they could enter the Serbian President's office without knocking.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31242	The word has been given by MP Zoran Ostojic, as an authorised representative of his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31243	Dear presidents, colleagues and colleagues, the management of the Oil Industry of Serbia, a stock company, a company whose privatisation you all participated in and agreed on yesterday. What the LDP was saying was confirmed. A super-audit report was adopted and the company lost 90m euros in last year, eight billion dinars are a confirmed loss. Since last year the price of oil was almost $150 and there is no company in the world that made the loss under these conditions, I have a few questions for the president of the NIS Shareholders' Assembly, Mr Skundric, by the way, as well as the Energy Minister. As the loss was made during last year, when NIS was in Serbia's 100% ownership, and as a member of the administration, Mr Petrovic said yesterday that citizens will not suffer loss, my questions for Mr Skundric are next. How damaged are Serbian citizens because NIS had no gain, or how damaged is Serbia's budget and budget users? Other information, how many Serbian citizens, because NIS had no gain and did not participate in the budget, had to pay more taxes for Serbia's budget? The second question, since the beginning of the year, how many times has fueled Serbia since the Russian partner took control of NIS? How much did the total fuel go? How much fuel was sold in Serbia? What is the difference that Serbian citizens paid through more expensive fuel from the beginning of the year to today? On this occasion, I am not asking for information on the damage that all Serbian citizens pay through car development due to the worst fuel sold in Serbia. The third question for Mr. Skundric is this. Since a member of the administration said that the value of these eight billion dinars will be reduced, the value of NIS, how much will it affect the reduction of those free actions that you promised to the gullible citizens of Serbia? How much is it going to be in dinars less value of these free shares? After all, this NIS situation would have to be responsible because, you know, in this country, falsifying the final account, falsifying the data is a criminal offense. We heard yesterday from a board member that the board didn't adopt that final bill that showed that NIS was dealing with a profit of two billion and 300 million dinars, that it was adopted by some sort of executive board. I ask the question -- how could he then be handed over the final bill, unless it was adopted by the board of directors, because the board of directors, under the Company Act, is the only one in charge of adopting the final accounts. To not be left without an answer, because I too have not received an answer to many questions, a question for you, Madam President - will you allow, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, to vote on the law on expropriation, whose debate in particular is over yesterday? Despite the fact that several parliamentary groups have indicated that the law is against the constitution, will you allow us to vote and that the law is passed without the opinion of the Legislative Committee, which has been avoiding for two weeks to declare the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31244	Since no one else is involved with Article 235. The Rules of Procedure don't answer for a word, we keep working. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Milica Radovic. In accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to all the members of the Government, I called for the meetings to be attended by Darko Radojčić, Deputy Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Nadežda Mitrić-Zitko and Ranka Vujovic, assistant director of the Republic Secretariat for Law. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Tuesday, 24 November 2009, so within a short period of time, as set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with the minutes of the 11th edition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, the minutes of the 2009 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 National Assembly, the minutes of the 2009 Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the minutes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly in the Day to answer parliamentary questions concerning the current topic of 29 October 2009 and the minutes of the third session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to remind you that the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Parliamentary Group sent the Administrative Board of Objections to the minutes of the 4th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, and for this reason the adoption of this minutes was postponed. However, since these observations were subsequently found to be not related to the minutes but to the discrepancies of the stenogram and the tone record of the session, there are no longer any reasons to delay the statement on this record. At the minutes of the other sittings, none of the MPs submitted any observations in writing. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 30 and 31 March, 1-9, 14-16, 21-23, and 30 April, 4-5, 11, 12 and 13 May 2009. Of the 163 MPs, 125 were declared. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I am voting on the minutes of the 11th edition of the 2009 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session, held on 16-18, 20-29 July and 31 August 2009. Of the 137 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I am voting on the minutes of the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 25 October 2009. Of the 130 MPs, for the 126 vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 25 October 2009. I am putting to the vote the minutes on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions concerning the current topic, since 29 October 2009. Of the 128 MPs, 126 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a report on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day to answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question since 29 October 2009. I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 30 October 2009. Of the 128 MPs, 124 were declared. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 30 October 2009. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency act. A group of 21 MPs of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 148 MPs, 25 were declared. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 51 MPs proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for discharge of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 November 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 151 MPs, 24 were declared. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill amending the Security and Information Agency Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of 140 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Insurance, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 November 2009. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 136 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 November 2009, be put on the agenda. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 November 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft loan agreement (K10) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm asking you to come forward with this proposal from the government. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the Proposal for the Statute of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 November 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Justice and Administration Committee has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for a decision on the discharge of the public prosecutor, No 118-3449/09, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 November 2009. I'm asking you to come forward with this proposal. Of 127 MPs, one for. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The Justice and Administration Committee has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for a decision to suspend the public prosecutor's office, No 118-3450/09, as of 18 November 2009. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The Committee for Justice and Administration has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, No 118-3451/09, as of 18 November 2009. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on international transport in road transport be put on the agenda as of 20 November 2009. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law on the debt of the Republic of Serbia to Eurobank EFG A.D. Belgrade be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the confirmation of a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Autoput Corridor 10) be put on the agenda as of 20 November 2009. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development be put on the agenda as of 20 November 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the confirmation of a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "A loan for municipal and regional infrastructure B", which was submitted on 20 November 2009. I pray we plead 129 MPs, no one for, against one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to make a statement about the draft agenda in general. Of the 135 MPs, 131 voted in favour of the proposed agenda. I find that the agenda of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was established in 2009 as a whole. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - THE PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF THE AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF THE PRIORITY (principles) You have received the bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the political groups of approximately the number of MPs of MPs, i.e. the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS MP group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Group of MPs - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups if you have not done so by now to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. Mr Dragan Todorovic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31245	I'm reporting to Section 94 of Section 3 and I suggest we double the time we have to discuss. I think it's extremely rare that such a significant thing, I could say a dangerous thing, comes as a bill in the Serbian Parliament. I think it would be necessary to give twice the time, because I believe that the ruling majority MPs will also try to explain to Serbian citizens the reasons why this law is proposed, as well as the MPs of opposition parties, that they will eventually try to convince the ruling majority not to vote in favour of this law, because it will be one of the greatest historical mistakes. I would also take the opportunity, since Mirko Cvetkovic is here for us, to ask him – is it true that his actions in the "Yugoslav Copyright Agency" are worth a million and 375,000 euros. We have the Duke of Meridian Banks, he has 11m euros. This is the Duke of Grand - million and 375,000. It's not that small. Because of the public and citizens of Serbia to give us that information so they don't speculate, so they don't waste time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31246	Mr. MP, in accordance with Article 90, I would remind you that to change the order of the dots, i.e. to combine the dots and to extend the time, it would take no later than 24 hours before a certain beginning of the session to deliver this proposal to the National Assembly, so you did not do so. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31247	Madam President, I have tried to respond and to tell you that this session is scheduled for an emergency procedure, and it was not called in time. On the other hand, I suggested to you, unlike my colleague, Vice President Mrs. Comic, who has been constantly speaking since entering the O.R., she probably informed us, or you of the weather outside, to shine the sun, who will arrive at any time, because it is impossible, sometimes the vision of torture, that we can do, which is what counterpart Popovic and I have noticed. Mr Todorovic clearly referred to Article 94(2). Rules of Procedure, and you answer him by referring to Rule 90. Please remind yourself of the practice that exists in this House and since this Rules of Procedure and all the Rules of Procedures were before, and Mrs Kolundzhija, who cut her head off, kicked her right away as soon as Mr Todorovic said she needed to extend the time. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Therefore, I ask you to respect the right of the MPs of Article 94(2) and, as you did a month ago, when Mr Todorovic asked for the 2nd item of the agenda, put this proposal to the vote, so let the MPs make their statement. There are probably those who think for themselves, and they're not just air-headed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31248	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31249	I don't know if it's worth any more to you to object to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, from the moment you started voting on records from previous sessions, you completely ruled out the possibility that we should apply here, because you think that as long as you're talking, and you could talk today about different points of the agenda, on various issues, that no one has the right to interfere and to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So as soon as the vote was completed, you should have given me a word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've completed the vote on the records, determined the agenda, and our microphones have been turned off without being able to log in. I wanted to suggest an extension of the time for debate because I believe that such an important law must be allowed for MPs to debate in a longer time than anticipated. I also wanted to tell you that you can tell me now that it's too late, since I didn't object in time. Who can object to you in time, when you turn the agenda to suit you? So, absolutely recklessly, sometimes you run the sessions of the National Assembly, as if there were only you in the O.R. It's all set. I know that. There's nothing you can do about it. But think carefully, one day you'll be sitting somewhere in the O.R., or you'll be watching the National Assembly sessions from home. The ruling majority will not be at your will, you will wrinkle your teeth and wait for an opportunity to vote. I'm telling you -- these new makeups of yours, your new hairstyle, and some look, a styling one you're worried about, isn't enough for people who are against your political options to forget what you did at the National Assembly sessions when you were president. So, what can I say to you when you made a mistake 15 minutes ago and since then you haven't given me a chance to point that out to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31250	Two of your findings, Mr. Nikolic, are quite accurate, although there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. One, it's true you're too late with the proposal you made. So that's quite true, and it's quite true that I don't allow you and me and any two MPs to speak at the same time. So only one can speak. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, and you will. Excuse me, Mr. Jovanovic. You're not happy with the answer. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: You should ask if anyone wants to discuss it. You always talk, and some important things you skip. ( ) Do you want in the voting day that the Assembly declares whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Jovanovic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31251	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, I think we've got off to a bad start discussing such important issues. All that has been recorded by the very law of jurisdiction and the statutes of the Vojvodina is so irresponsible - that today we do not have the right to act as a republican parliament. There were no previous consultations, because if there were then we could agree on these consultations eventually and on the extension of the time that the Rules of Procedure itself would normally have provided, in order for Parliament to be asked here in a serious way, reasonedly, about important issues, which we are discussing today and which we should give an answer to. You yourself know what the debate on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs looked like. No government official was present. We don't have a problem with the fact that we're spending our working day here today in the Assembly. We would like to implement it in the same way and in an atmosphere that is an appropriate topic that we are talking about. Unfortunately, Madam President, you were wrong. Nowhere in Article 90 provides for an extension of the time for discussion. It is foreseen by the last position of Article 94, which makes it very clear: "The president, or representative of the parliamentary group, before the opening of the search, has the right to propose a longer debate for the parliamentary groups than the time set out in paragraph 1 of this article". The fact that some MP groups are going to abuse their congregation time cannot possibly be an argument for us who don't see it - why should we hesitate to debate and limit the time of debate. On the contrary, I think that all day long should be used -- to see how much they are, who build their argument on the politics of the past and fear, weaker and powerless. In this way you deny us this possibility, and you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, so the radicals, which we do not agree on, are absolutely right about the statutes and the law when they say you have made a mistake, because you have not done what you are obliged to do. Put it to a vote, we'll vote to extend the debate, and most will decide. If we start working this way, it's going to end very badly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31252	Mr Jovanovic, you know that there was a meeting with the heads of the parliamentary groups and that we agreed on some initiatives, for example, that there was no connection point. So, all the initiatives that have been presented, which you suggested at that meeting, as you can see, the parliamentary majority has respected. As far as this particular initiative of yours is concerned, in addition to being too late with all the suggestions, I think it's rational to make a statement. I put on the vote a proposal from the MPs asking for the time to be extended. Of the 191 present MP, 75 voted in favour. I find the proposal not accepted. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorized them to represent: Slobodan Samardzic, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group... (Dragan Todorovic, from the site: I ask if the system is working or not?) It's working, just wait till I let you know. Please, you will have your word, just to let you know, I've already begun to inform you who will represent a group of MPs. In accordance with Article 37, the SRS parliamentary group Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, Mr Djuro Peric, the PUPS parliamentary group. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Before I ask if the proposing's representative wants a word, Mr Tomislav Nikolic appeared before you, and Mr Todorovic. So, Mr Tomislav Nikolic is advertising his Rules of Procedure. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I did not answer to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, I already answered for the discussion, and now I do not want to talk. ) Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31253	What are these people today? What's happening to you? Here, Madam Chairman, when you report to the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure do not only mean that you report for violation of the procedure or violation of the Rules of Procedure, but also the right to possibly report for something. There are some who don't know it, and it's free to talk to them. Here, next to your very valuable instructions, and my experience, based on Article 120, I propose, in time, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, when the time comes for the vote to take place through a roll call. I think it's a historic thing and everyone should be loud and clear, by name and by name, standing behind their voice. I don't suppose you're going to get off the line, because Mr. Clooney, Clooney, as his name is, he likes the line. Therefore, I think that you should follow him, go out on the line and vote in a roll call, publicly state whether or not you're a law on the transfer of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31254	National MP Sasa Milenic will represent the G 17 Plus parliamentary group. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: What about my proposal? ) Please, your proposal had a form of advertising of the Rules of Procedure. You cannot use the Rules of Procedure advertising institute to make suggestions. It's just not possible. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic has a word. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31255	Dear People's MPs and People's MPs, you have before you a bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. In the preparation of the Proposal for a Law on Determining Jurisdiction, it came from three basic principles. First, the need to extend the existing competences of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina in order to consistently implement the Constitution guaranteed the right of citizens to the province autonomy referred to in Article 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, all the proposed solutions are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Third, to consistently implement the process of decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia and the concept of rural autonomy, without elements of statehood. The competencies of the AP Vojvodina can be divided into two groups. These are, first of all, original competences, based primarily on the provision of Article 183(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate matters of territorial importance in the Constitution of certain areas. Second, that entrusted competences based on the provision of Article 178(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that the Republic of Serbia can legally trust autonomous provinces with certain issues under its jurisdiction. The draft law laying down the competence of the APV has been drawn up, above all, by the following constitutional provisions. First, the provisions of Article 12. The RS constitution, which found that state power is limited to citizens' rights to province autonomy. Secondly, the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia governing the province's autonomy and legal position of autonomous provinces are provisions of the Constitution from Articles 176 to 187. In particular, in the preparation of the draft law, the provisions of Article 183 have been made. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which first established that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the Constitution and their statutes, regulate jurisdiction, choice, organisation and work of the bodies and services they establish. Second, that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate issues of regional importance in the following areas: spatial planning and development, agriculture, water industry, hunting, fishing, tourism, catering, spas and spas, environmental protection, industry and crafts, road, river and rail transport and road planning, fairs and other business events and, finally, education, sports, culture, health and social protection and public information at the province level. Third, to ensure that autonomous provinces ensure that human minority rights are exercised in accordance with the law. Fourth, that autonomous provinces manage the province's assets in the manner provided for in the law. The fifth, that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, have original revenues, provide funds to units of local self-government to carry out trusted tasks, bring their budget and final account. The draft law provides for the competences of the AP Vojvodina to settle matters of provincial importance in the areas provided for in Article 183(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The issues of property and financing of the powers of the AP Vojvodina will be governed by specific laws under the planned system solutions in those areas. Therefore, the draft law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is in line with new constitutional solutions. A process of decentralisation of Serbia and the concept of rural autonomy, without the elements of statehood, is being carried out consistently. Dear People's MPs, I hope you will support the bill, of course, after the exchange of arguments and discussion that I now call upon you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31256	Thank you, Mr. President. Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee at the session of the Legislative Committee want a word? Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by saying that I have issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and concerning the proposal for a statute and related to the proposal for this law on the transfer of competence. I'm just going to read one sentence from the stenogram -- I said nice, I want to say I'm giving out an opinion on one and another proposal. Why this discrimination occurred that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs found that I had singled out opinions only on this bill, I don't know, but it's not the first time. It was obvious your anxiety, and on the day that we had the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as it did today before the beginning of this session, it speaks of the fact that you are still aware of the evil that you are preparing for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia by adopting the proposal of this law and the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Of course, it's not a subject. Today's topic is this secessionist, autonomous and anti-constitutional bill establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. We do not want to be birds of the ominous, but it is our duty to warn the regime of Boris Tadic, to warn citizens of Serbia, and especially citizens of Serbia living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, that on Thursday or Friday, I do not know when you were planning to vote and vote these bills, the AP Vojvodina will be a state in the country. This law and statute outlines the statehood of a future state and I would like to remind myself of June 2009, when the SRS was the only political party in Serbia, I stress the only one that strongly opposed the signing of the Chernomidin-Ahtisari agreement. Unfortunately, we proved to be right. Today, just over ten years since the signing of this agreement, we have 15% occupied territory, we have a self-proclaimed state of Kosovo on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or AP KIM. We have hundreds of thousands of displaced Serbs from their centuries-old hearths. Also, I would like to remind myself of the Belgrade Agreement, in March 2002, when the SRS was again the only political party to strongly oppose the signing of the Belgrade Agreement. That's when we said the Belgrade Agreement meant the introduction to Montenegro's secession. Only three years after that, Montenegro left the SRJ assembly, that is, at the time of the Serbia-Montenegro community. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are still warning today that this bill is something that will lead to similar situations in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, something that will lead not only to the secession of the AP Vojvodina, but also raises issues in other hunting areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. After a few years, some other people will sit in this House and remember what we talked about today. That is why we, the Serbian radicals, want to make it clear and loud to the citizens of Serbia that the Boris Tadic regime is seriously entering the Serbian state's decommissioning session today. It's a danger that will soon come to pass. It is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the case. 1, 2, 4, 8, 9, 179, 182, 183 and 185. We want to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia that, as a politically serious state-run party, we have done everything in our power to distract you and by maintaining the stands in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and here in parliament, that you do not do what you intend.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31258	Time. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to, on behalf of the SRS, as an MP who has issued an opinion on the Constitutional Affairs Committee on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, although it does not appear in the report, so I warn you that first of all, I realize that this law is not only the opposite of the Constitution, because I think you all know it and that there are in your ranks those who deal with constitutional theory, but it suspends the Constitution in its own way. This law and the statute as sublegal acts are laid down above the Constitution. That's why I'm convinced this session is historic, that one day someone will judge. Maybe today someone doesn't understand us very well, but in a year, two, three, five, they'll realize that we were right, as that, of course, proved in our close past, when we pointed out what the creation of the SCG would lead to. I don't like this parliament building because this building just disappeared from the states. Are we ever going to preserve the state and is anyone working to preserve the state, not to further disperse? Mr. Cvetkovic, you will be remembered in history by the Cvetkovic-Chanak agreement. Don't look at the sky, when you came in, you winked and smiled at Mr. Chank. He will be completely forgotten by history, and you as Prime Minister and member of the DS will be remembered for what is wrong. Take care first of all of your integrity and your political party that you represent. If you were a true statesman, you would have answered Canku – no, let the government fall, I am resigning, I will not let the state be dispersed. I guarantee you that in the next election you will win even more votes than you have now, probably, but you are not a statesman. You are blind and obedient. You've led to the fact that you're even turning the wheel of history backwards. Twice, citizens living in the premises of today's AP Vojvodina pleaded with whom they wanted to live and where they wanted to live, in Serbia, and in 1918 and 1946, but you want to go backwards. You keep pulling back, and some of you accuse others of doing it. Let's once pull the car forward, and let's say it's really going to be better, as you promised it would be better, that we'll keep the state safe, that we don't have asymmetric autonomy, that what applies to Kosovo is also true for Vojvodina, but you're now sending a message to this law that you're ready to recognise the unilaterally declared independence of KIM. This, gentlemen, is not about any mere declarative law, but about a kind of organic law, which, once passed, will no longer be changed. Even if we have a two-thirds majority one day to change the Constitution, gentlemen, we won't be able to do that. You've blocked some future change of constitution with this law. What if the two-thirds majority decides, there's such a climate in the country, that we have a unitary state? No, these are already acquired rights. Do you know what responsibility you take on yourself? You know, you, when you were working on the Constitution, you from the DS, that it was such a political moment – gone Montenegro, had to bring the Constitution. You were the strongest, he had to be who he is. It's not good. He's not good at everything. But what if one day we want to change it? Nothing. You're going to meet what Jelko Kacin is asking of you. It says – this law and this statute, in fact, will confirm the democracy of Belgrade and Serbia. The one who called you "mirdita" in the Serbian Parliament yesterday, and you as Prime Minister, and your foreign minister has no intention of reacting to such a thing at all. For you, it's a passing thing. They're humiliating us all. How far are we going to duck, Mr. Cvetkovic? Look at me when I speak to you. How long will you bend? What do they need to ask you for more?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31260	Time. The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31261	Ladies and gentlemen, the statutes and the law on jurisdiction are also related to acts, in that sense, in the Article. The 27th, 34rd and 63rd statutes state that the AP Vojvodina is entitled to foreign borrowing. However, the jurisdiction law does not mention this important issue anywhere, although this law on jurisdiction has 91 members. We find this scandalous and it is most dangerous for the Republic of Serbia, more dangerous than the so-called. Dukean Academy of Science, more dangerous than so-called. The representations in Brussels, since the Constitution was respected, should have been invoked in the statute and in the jurisdiction law to Article 93. The constitution, where it is said that the province can only be owed under the conditions laid down by law. It's the 2005 Public Debt Act. In this respect, it is determined in this law that the Ministry of Finance can approve the borrowing of the AP. It's not in the statutes, nor in the jurisdiction law. It's clear that when one state wants to be broken, it's the easiest thing to do through finance. I will only give you an example of Montenegro, where a German mark was introduced in 2000 and thus the integrity of the common state of Serbia-Montenegro is shattered. The same is happening in Kosovo, because the quasi-fitness was admitted to the World Bank and the IMF. In that sense, it can be very easy for the European Commissioner, Mr Bojan Pajtic, to say that his goal is in a political sense to be a European commissioner and his coalition partner present here, to take some credit and that the government of the Republic of Serbia opposes it. Article 5 of the Jurisdiction Act stipulates that some so-called A mixed commission. It does not say who will have a majority in the commission, nor does it write whether this deadline of the Public Debt Act will be respected for 15 days to resolve the opinion of the borrower. In that sense, it is clear that Vojvodina is given the right to take loans abroad without any control. This is an irresistible reminder of the 1974 Constitution, when so-called Vojvodina had its governor and its own national bank, when Serbia had no jurisdiction in this regard. Even this scandalous draft statute and jurisdiction law is worse than the 1974 Constitution, because in the event of a conflict between the republic and the province, then the Federal Assembly would be in charge. This is not here, nor is it written anywhere in the law of jurisdiction and the statute that we need to adopt or vote against it if our conscience is clear. In that sense, all this justice is so-called. European integration, European law. But it's not a new story, it's an old story, it's a neotitoistic story, and I'm going to give you examples of our older citizens of famous politicians, for example. Bosko Krunic, who was chairman of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia's presidency and who on 25 May this year said we should go to the EU and that the modern European state is the only one within the EU. It's a famous story. It's something that happened at the time of titoism. Also, another known official of the autonomous regime, during communism, Zivan Berisavljevic, tells us in 2008 that Serbia should become a modern European country. Same passwords of the same phrase, just replace "communism" for "EU". In that sense, there is no difference and the consequences will be equally devastating. It is also scandalous that the European Commission report, which was in fact the trigger for the adoption of the statutes, is that one of the authors, Mr Kacin, is otherwise a war criminal, should say so openly. He justified 1991 at a press conference to shoot down a transport helicopter then the only Yugoslav People's Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31262	National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31263	Ladies and gentlemen, I have issued an opinion on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on both points of the agenda. I'll use the time if you allow both points of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, if Joseph Broz Tito and Edward Cardellj were alive, they would sue the writers of the statutes of the AP Vojvodina and this proposal for a law to hijack the copyright of the 1974 Constitution. What He said: “I am not afraid of the son of a son of a son of a bitch; let him be like the one on the mountain list; but I fear the evil of the house. ” As far as the laws and statutes are concerned, the irresponsible and incompetent leadership of the Republic of Serbia presents the Canka and Pajtic Constitution, which pushes Serbia into a deep political, spiritual, socio-economic and cultural crisis. On November 5th 2009, the Serbian government passed a bill laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, so the AP Vojvodina regains federal status, which it had under the 1974 Constitution, leading in perspective to a complete secession from Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is making many wrong moves, including a move to get Serbia into NATO's pact. Serbia's government is subjective, condescending to the West and Serbia has no use for it. We're sick of it, we don't have our dignity, the government of Serbia is too courting the West, which makes Serbia a destiny. Serbia must be free of this incompetent leadership as soon as possible so that we can finally preserve our sovereignty, our reputation and the dignity of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. When it comes to AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija, the current government in Serbia does not think well of its people and its state. This government does not think about Serbia's future and the future of its people, but thinks of the daily-political squishy interests that lead us to an ever-increasing political crisis. No state interest can be subordinated to party interests, which, unfortunately, seems to us for years. The constitution must be respected, under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia constitutional unity has been established, however, whenever you step away from the Constitution, everything becomes risky and dangerous, which leads to the adoption of this law of the identity of the AP Vojvodina. The SRS sees it as an anti-state act which, from the authorities, is looking to satisfy their bureaucratic and Shicardian interests. Regionalisation, as the government of Serbia is introducing, in this spiritual state in which Serbia is located, damages the entire state of the Republic of Serbia. The problem is that state policy is being run towards the AP Vojvodina and the AP Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the Rak area. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not the one who can respond to a very delicate task. What are the statutes and this law for? It opens up two possibilities. First, the creation of the state of Vojvodina in the state of Serbia. Second, the secession of the Subotic County and secession of the entire AP Vojvodina. Serbs in the AP Vojvodina do not want to live under foreign rule -- Austro-Hungarian, but Serbs in the AP Vojvodina, as well as many other citizens, want to live in their country of Serbia. The historical and cultural reasons for which separatists are called cannot be an excuse for the education of the state of Vojvodina. One of the traits of the statehood of the AP Vojvodina, according to these acts of Vojvodina, given to it, is the right for the AP Vojvodina to conclude international contracts, as stated in Article 16. However, Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not give this right to AP Vojvodina, and one of the blackest and most difficult powers that you carry is the next designation of statehood, it is the right to establish representations in regions and Europe, and even with the Atlantic Pact, where the Supreme Command is in Brussels.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31264	Mr. Zoran Ostojić, advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31265	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, I think that after Mr Mirovic's discussion, you failed to determine the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, so I suggest you do. I'm talking about the dignity of this house. To call the MEP, who was your guest yesterday, a criminal, is absolutely an insult to this House. You belong, your party, so-called. The pro-European government, which as the deepest pillar of these various pillars, said we should move towards EU membership. Please make sure that if you are absent today or want to speed up this session, take care of the reputation of this home. To tell someone that the war criminal, for Mr. Kacin, the MEP who came here doing the job and in our interest, is really inadmissible. Please concentrate. Here, I think, otherwise, it often violates Parliament's dignity when it defends more the interests of another state than the state of Serbia. It is often among the MPs of some parliamentary groups, but come on, I'm not answering it then, calling 104. But this is still scandalous, saying to someone that the war criminal who was visiting yesterday, who is a friend of Serbia, a European Parliamentarian and you to be silent, reminds me of the one from the beginning of the mandate when you allowed the late Prime Minister Djindjic to be insulted here, and when unfortunately, the ruling majority voted that it was not an insult and a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please respond or warn the gentlemen who have obviously prepared themselves for this item of the agenda to choose words. Some limit must be maintained.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31266	I ask all MPs to take care of qualifications, especially qualifications of a type of war criminal. I think this remark is in place. If you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting for damage to the Rules of Procedure, I will vote that the Rules of Procedure has been injured because I have not responded. Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31267	Madam President, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 138. I am advertising it because of the fact that the draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina does not contain a constitutional basis as the proposer explained it, Prime Minister Cvetkovic. You have probably deliberately or reading this prepared synopsis, Mr. Cvetkovic, forgotten to interpret the Constitution, because probably, like your other colleagues, you deliberately throw it under your feet, step on it, because you really want to deceive the public with a fact, referring to Article 183 of Section 2. The Constitution and Article 178(1) that the state of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia, can determine the competences of the AP Vojvodina, which is not true at all. A new Serbian constitution with such members, if Vojislav Seselj were in Serbia, would never have passed, since he had objections to that member of the constitution. Now I have to go back to the fact that there's been a long preparation and a coup in the U.S.S. and all the things that some of the constituents used to write here. But as it stands in the Constitution, don't deceive Mr. Cvetkovic, the public that it can be done by a law that will determine it. Article 183(2) The constitution clearly speaks of 23 demarcated, possibly entrusted responsibilities that the state of Serbia can carry out towards the AP. Here is also the question for you, here for Mr Micunović, and also for Mrs Kolundzija, who later came to the DS, but still, she has been in the DOS since the beginning as a member of Covic's alternative, as you have deviated from the original DS programme. Zoran Djindjic said in 1994 that the future of SRJ is in strengthening and centralising state competence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31268	No injuries to the Rules of Procedure, absolutely no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr Tomislav Nikolic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31269	First, Article 104 and then Article 100. So you have really injured the dignity of the National Assembly by dividing us into MPs of the first and second order. I'll prove it to you if you let me. In fact, Mr Ostojić objected that you hurt the Rules of Procedure and could only do so immediately after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. In the meantime, since you injured the Rules of Procedure, another MP has spoken. In such situations, you all of us who don't want to vote for the law on the transfer of jurisdiction notices, and even get fines. This time you allowed the entire tirad of Mr. Ostojić, because you liked his speech, because you needed that parliamentary group to vote on the law on the transfer of jurisdiction, and allowed you to severely harm the Rules of Procedure by not telling him - Mr. Ostojić, if I hurt the Rules of Procedure, it was at the previous presentation, not on this after which you answered. That's your manners, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Just yet, I have to say that this constitution may have written its feet, but the MPs of the SRS and their heads, and their minds, and their souls, and their hands voted for it. So, as far as the constitution is concerned, the constitution is an expression of the will of most Serbian citizens expressed in a referendum and would never allow myself to belong to a party that will attack the constitution and bring it closer to the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31270	When two MPs report at the same time and advertise the Rules of Procedure, I really don't know what anyone will say. So, Mr. Ostojić, like all the other MPs, came forward after seeing that I hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I did hurt him. Mr. Ostojić, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Replica, then Mr. Mirovic has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31271	It was my personal attitude and it's based on Article 10. The European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees me freedom of expression and freedom of opinion. I applied the same principles as those applied by Mr. Kacin, who accused Slobodan Milosevic, who died or killed as an innocent man, of being guilty of everything and of being a war criminal. So it is the same freedom of expression as it is applied to the late Slobodan Milosevic. On the other hand, my opinion is based on arguments, unlike this other one, because this same Mr. Kacin was the Minister of Information in 1991 when the JNA transport helicopter was shot down and then said: "We are sorry that this helicopter was managed by Slovenian, Captain Anton Merhel, ten hours after our call that all Slovenians leave JNA and move on to our Territorial Defence. When there's a helicopter in the air, no one knows if it's carrying bread or rockets." It's an excuse for a crime. That's what my position was based on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31272	Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31273	Mr. Mirovic, I don't want to talk to you, I said what I had to say to the president. I can only tell you that I don't understand anything you're talking about, that helicopter was as much yours as Jelka Kacina. So, this JNA was an army of both his and ours, but let's not talk about it now. Mr. Nikolic, how do you know I didn't answer the phone right after Mr. Mirovic finished, do you have any kind of device so I didn't get the word? Don't, Mr. Nikolic, if you've already become a European, you could have contacted me right away and advertised the Businessman. But since it took you 20 years to learn geography to realize that Carlobag and Karlovac are not in Serbia, it will probably take you 20 years to figure out what European values are. Not, Mr. Nikolic, all Chetniks are dukes like you. Please don't take me in the mouth when there's no need for that. I answered, the lady didn't give me her word, she gave it to me after I told her other signs and I don't see any reason to continue this controversy. I'm just warning you, Mr. Mirovic, that you may have an opinion and that's your position. I can have my opinion and say about you what I think, but I think it would violate the Rules of Procedure and hurt the dignity of the Assembly. So we can't always say what we think.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31274	Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31275	You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, have injured the Rules of Procedure as well as Mr. Ostojic. How an MP in the Serbian Parliament can harm the dignity of someone who is not an MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as I know, Jelko Kacin is not a National MP. We are obliged to protect the dignity of members of this high house. As far as I know, Jelko Kacin has never been a MP before. Perhaps you will promote him as MP, as president of the state, as Prime Minister. He is not a MP and does not enjoy protection under Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you followed, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, what Mr. Dejan Mirovic said, he just read a statement from your great friend in Slovenia that he was sorry that a helicopter pilot who is Slovenian died. In other words, I wouldn't be sorry if he was killed by a Serb. Pure racist statement. Such a man should now write a report on whether Serbia allegedly meets some European standards. You instead of reacting yesterday as National Assembly President because of that statement, because more than 20 JNA soldiers were killed in Slovenia in 1991, because the government of Ante Markovic did not allow JNA soldiers to use combat ammunition and were there as clay pigeons and as rabbits, and you instead of reminding that great friend of yours from Slovenia, the great Democrats and the great European man of the fact that he blessed a war crime, you say here - he injured the dignity of the National Assembly of the SRS, who only read the statement of Jelko Kacin. So, you have injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have rudely questioned the dignity of the National Assembly, for here you have provided hospitality to someone who is an open enemy of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31276	Obviously, Mr. Martinovic, our systems of values are different. It is clear that the dignity of the congregation cannot be protected only by mutual communication. It is clear that all officials have a certain reputation and must not label themselves in the way Mr. Mirovic did, and in fact I acted on it. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you're not satisfied, we can make a statement in the voting day. You're not satisfied. In the day for the vote, we will declare ourselves, parliament will plead. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31277	No, that's my application for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31278	Mr. Todorovic is reporting for violations of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31279	Article 27(1), second subparagraph Mrs. Dejanovic, we can have different values, different value systems, but there are some things that have been widely accepted and I think there are certain changes in your system of values. Whether they are better or worse, let the citizens of Serbia judge. When it comes to not only Jelko Kacin, but Slovenia's behaviour towards Serbia in the last three decades, it is undoubtedly hostile to Serbia. I'd like to remind you of 1987, Cankar's home and the savages of the Cypriot separatists under the auspices of the Slovenian political oligarchy. If they had the same system of values that Serbian radicals had at the time, they wouldn't have come to this situation we came to. Yesterday you received a man who, entering the hall, welcomed the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the peacemakers. If you don't consider it a humiliation, both by demeaning both Serbian MPs and citizens, then we really don't have the same system of values, but we don't allow you to impose your system of values on us. We will fight for the interests of the Serbian people, because for us it is the greatest system of values and interests, and we will not give up, regardless of these stories about Europe. And he also told you that you don't have to rush to Europe, you won't enter Europe until you admit KIM, then Vojvodina, in the meantime Sandzak, when there's nothing from Serbia. Now, that's your system of values.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31280	Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31281	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the honourable members of the Government, are before us the points of the agenda in these two days, when virtually possibly the fate of this country is resolved very negatively. Mr. Prime Minister, on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have issued an opinion, but as a previous question, I would like to tell you that MPs on this Committee on Constitutional Affairs have experienced a great humiliation because none of the representatives of the Government have come, that we are able to engage with competent people, with the legislators of this law, possibly engage in some debate. Serbian citizens should know that you sent the Secretary General to the board. It would be as if Mr. Veljko Odalovic, secretary of the National Assembly, discussed it on that committee that day. I think it's incorrect, I think it's totally anachronous, totally unacceptable to do this for such important questions. However, it is generally a manner when we also discuss many laws here. Mr. Cvetkovic, in May and June I asked the question that you would send competent ministers to the National Assembly sessions and you said it was a good question and that you would make sure that it was done in the future. I can tell you it's even worse than it was in May and June, and all the MPs can testify. As for constitutional deadlines when it comes to these laws, 90-day deadlines have long been broken and I can't accept what such a haste is, what to interrupt a regular session, regular agendas, in the middle of a session so that these laws are suddenly a priority. Serbian citizens should practically know that this is a matter of blackmailing minor political parties because the budget is coming and, simply, if it is not supported, this has nothing to do with the budget. That's why it's such a rush. If the budget were made in May, believe me, this session would be in April. Therefore, when it comes to concrete things, New Serbia will in principle and in particular try to fix something that is practically incorrigible. You're extremely interpreting the Constitution the way it suits you. In particular, Article 178. The constitution says the Republic of Serbia can legally trust autonomous provinces and units of local self-government with certain issues under its jurisdiction, but no, Mr. Prime Minister, full jurisdiction. It is precisely an interpretation that makes here a complete confusion, which is why surely generations in Serbia will feel the consequences and New Serbia will surely try to bring down what you are likely to adopt through the Constitutional Court initiative. I don't think I can ever sign international regional agreements without the government's consent. Such practice is nowhere in the world. The transfer of competence cannot be carried out in the fields of science, academy of science and art, etc. Surely, the provision of the capital is unacceptable. Surely what you've been doing all this time, allegedly in the middle of a technical mistake, is returning from Vojvodina to Serbia, that's something you've only received in time and that you've made a rotten compromise. As I said, Serbian citizens will experience great consequences. There is a great responsibility before you, and I believe that if the Constitutional Court has a Constitutional Court and if it is surely the greatest instance, it will bring down this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31282	The rapporteur of the Committee on Legislatives, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31283	Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the autonomy of Vojvodina and its quantum, content, quality, institutionalisation of Vojvodina's autonomy is something generated and defined in the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A vast majority of Serbian citizens voted for this constitution. The constitution was voted by the vast majority of MPs in this high house, as the highest representative body of Serbian citizens and a body owned by the legislative and constitutional government. I would be happy if the debate and dialogue on this very important topic, from a superficial and demagogue discourse, were brought back into the framework of a constitutional and legal debate and an approach that implies that we systematically and linguistically interpret the provisions of the Constitution, and in the same way that we should interpret the provisions of the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, in order to prove and confirm that the provisions of this proposed law are in complete harmony with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Lately, some of the parliamentary groups, MPs, as well as the public, and also in this home, have been able to hear certain objections and a certain perception that autonomy is not necessary at all, that the autonomy of the Vojvodina allegedly splits the statehood of the Republic of Serbia. There was a completely unargued and universal approach, a demagogue approach, at the level of phrases and parols. It is necessary, I say, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, that we approach this very important matter by means of interpretation for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The need to extend the existing powers of the AP Vojvodina in relation to existing legal solutions is a consistent implementation of the Constitution of guaranteed citizens' right to province autonomy and this constitutional law is set out in Article 12. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the state government is limited to the rights of citizens to province autonomy, among other things, as well as the right to local self-government. Another very important reason is to consistently implement the process of decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia and the concept of broad rural autonomy, of course, without any elements of statehood. In short, as far as the bill itself is concerned, the competences of the Autonomous province are divided into two groups. The first group is the original competences and this is based on the provision of Article 183(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate matters of territorial importance in the Constitution of certain areas. The second group of competencies is entrusted to jurisdiction. This institute stems from the provision of Article 178(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which found that the Republic of Serbia can legally trust the autonomous province with certain issues under its jurisdiction. The issues of property and funding issues of the AP will be governed by specific laws within the framework of planned system solutions in these areas. At the session of the Legislative Committee, some MPs held certain arguments that challenged the constitutionality of individual solutions in the draft law on determining jurisdiction. I'll take a brief look around, and I'll try to make an argument both to the Legislative Committee and mine as president of that congregation working body. What is particularly highlighted as being unconstitutional is the provision of Article 3(3). The bill, which says the AP Vojvodina, as a region in which European principles and values are traditionally nurtured, can be a member of the European and world associations of the region and, within its jurisdiction, can establish representation in the regions of Europe, or Brussels, in accordance with the Law and Statute. The importance of the legislator or the legislator in this provision, especially as it has been demonstrated by Brussels, in the very context of the norm as a European centre in which the centres of the association of the region of Europeans are located, and in this sense the very provision of ''in accordance with the Law and the Statute' has been apostrophysed, also leaves the possibility and need for the subsequent parallel application of this law with legal solutions which will make this issue more detailed. I will remind you that the AP Vojvodina and according to the old constitution had its own representation in a European region. Not to mention that all European regions, within the EU Member States, have representations and that this is something that is not only in line with the quoted constitutional norm, but is also in line with what we call the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 4 has been particularly attacked and criticised by the opposition. I'll remind you, it refers to the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The position of the first member says that the territory of the AP Vojvodina is made up of the territorial units of local self-government, in its geographical areas of Bacak, Banat and Srem, laid down by law. I will remind you that the Law on Territorial Organization, adopted by this National Assembly, has determined what local self-government is in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. They're 45. Traditional geographical areas are Bačka, Banat and Srem. The criticism of the alleged unconstitutional nature of this member, or this attitude, is completely unfounded. As regards Article 5(3), the proposalor’s intention, in my view and the opinion of the Legislative Committee, was not to leave control over the legal work of the AP to the Government and the executive bodies of the AP, since the Constitution and the applicable Code governing this issue had already been settled. As regards entrusted transactions within the framework of supervision, in order to comply with the provisions of the applicable State Administration Act, the relevant constitutional provisions relating to the supervision of the work of the AP authority are relevant. In this respect, the objective, the intensity of this provision was precisely to enable the provision of a type of coordination of the necessary consultations within the competent authorities, with all the measures that the law requires to apply, in particular, in the framework of the application of the supervisory powers of the Government, which it has under the relevant regulations governing the organisation and way of working of the Government and the position of the authorities of the State Administration. As regards Article 7, both by political parties and by individual so-called Independent analysts have been attacked by a provision on the assets of the AP and on financing. Article 7 contains a principle provision indicating the direct application of the Public Property Act. The property of the AP Vojvodina will, as a special form of public property, be elaborated in the future public property law, which this assembly will hopefully adopt very quickly. I would return to what is interesting for both the public and MPs who have issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, and who have criticised this mention of Backa, Banat and Srem as geographical categories or geographical areas in the AP Vojvodina. The mention of these areas is not a legal category, they said, they are now becoming a legal category and, reportedly, according to critics of this norm, can otherwise challenge state borders, because parts of these geographical areas are partly located in the state of Romania and Croatia. I believe that mentioning these geographical areas is a finding of notor facts in the highest act of the AP Vojvodina, which is the Statute, which we will also consider, and also in this law. So, no one has ever challenged which units of local self-government belong to Bačka, which Banatu, which they are meeting. It's not a fact that Kikinda is a city in Banat without being a city in Srem. Therefore, I again refer to the Law on Territorial Organization adopted in 2007, which precisely established units of local self-government. (President: Time. If you only allow the closing sentence. The bill was fully agreed, fully harmonised with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31284	I would like to thank Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, the rapporteur and the chairman of the Legislative Committee. Mr. Zeljko Tomic is advertising his Rules of Procedure. You haven't been since this morning, and now you're here to advertise the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31285	I heard everything Mr. Ratkovic said. It was worth it, but don't laugh, stay dignified. Madam President, you had to respond to Mr. Ratkovic's words. First, he accused certain political parties and short-time speakers of demagogy, and then he personally used top-notch demagogy. In what way? He said there are certain political forces that believe that the autonomy of Vojvodina should not exist. That's what you said, Mr. Ratkovic. It's against the constitution to be against the autonomy of the Vojvodina. The constitution guarantees the Duke's autonomy. Who claims that Vojvodina has no autonomy against the Constitution. You have a duty to point out what political forces are. You're obliged to say who's claiming that Vojvodina has no autonomy. You said it so easily in demagogue. All parties present here, the vast majority... Excuse me, can I have some peace in the O.R., Mr. President?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31286	Mr. Todorovic. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: I apologize. You've got another minute. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31287	You, Mr. Ratkovic, are obliged to say what political forces are acting in opposition to the RS Constitution. No, you've defined yourself as a demagogy, an empty steam that you want someone to charge. You still have to watch what you're saying, and when you talk about Banat, and when you talk about Srem, we can narrow those areas down to even smaller units, so we can say that there's a pig's happiness from which you come and that there's wine happiness, etc. Where's that going? They're all non-constitutional categories, anti-constitutional. There's nothing in the Constitution about geographical areas, but on that path, we'll talk about it in the amendments. Don't say that there are political forces that stand up against the autonomy of Vojvodina. One is the autonomy of Vojvodina, and one is a state in the state and the citizens of this country know very well. We'll prove it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31288	Time. Mr. Samardzic advertises the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Mr. Todorovic advertises his Rules of Procedure? There's a Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31289	Either the replica or my five minutes that belong to me in the Rules of Procedure as chairman of the Legislative Committee. Mr. Tomic, dear colleague, I just said I commended your representative's participation in the Legislative Committee, Mr. Palalic. I didn't name him because he was on the board with one argument, from the DSS's point of view, and he wasn't moving within phrases, parols. That's what I apostrophysed. My intention was to call on the MPs to return to the analysis of the provisions of this law in the context of the RS Constitution. Therefore, there are definitely parties that say the Serbian government is a traitor because it will confirm the statutes, that parliament is a traitor to confirm the statutes, and thus the conclusion is that such parties are against any kind of autonomy of the RS, with these same parties swearing and swearing today in the RS Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31290	Mr Dragan Todorovic, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31291	I'm advertising Article 104. Mrs. Dejanovic, please follow closely what the MPs are saying. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, on several occasions, accurately expressed the political views of the SRS and there is no dilemma there. The SRS is against the autonomy of Vojvodina. It's our political stance and it's our right. Normally, no one normally thinks of being against the Constitution, but if conditions are met and the time comes in any case we will be pushing for an end to autonomy, because autonomy in the Serbian case was aimed only at breaking Serbia, and in 1974, and now in 2009. We're not giving that up. That the government is a traitor not to speak, but to speak its works and there is no dilemma. We're not running away from it. If someone executes EU orders, America, what is but a traitor? I guess that's simple stuff. Giving these powers to Vojvodina today is an absolute step towards creating a new federal unit in RS territory and we are against it. You can say whatever you want, as you said in 2003, the Belgrade Agreement, the SCG State Community. It'll all be the same, it'll just get a little better, and then a little bit better goes Montenegro. Today you convince us the same thing when it comes to the Duke. It's not a neck. It's a neck. You're explaining who you're explaining to? You don't have to explain anything to Chanka. Explain to the citizens of Serbia. Canak has his way and he never hid it. It's not him who's responsible for this. It's DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31292	Mr. Palalic, do you want a replica? In a positive context, you are mentioned. It's all clear. So there's no ambiguity, we all understood that context, so there's no basis for replication. We move on to the participation of the president, or representative of the parliamentary groups, from the smallest to the greatest. Mr. Đuro Peric on behalf of PUPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31293	I'm sorry, my discussion is more about the statutes, so I'm going to talk about it tomorrow, and I wouldn't talk about this right now. I've got a little something. I'll talk about the statute tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31294	Do you want someone within the Group of Minorities, New Serbia, LDP? Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31295	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Cvetkovic, if you are as Prime Minister and a representative of the Executive Authority who comes to parliament with such an important law all reduced to five minutes of quoting the arguments that are otherwise in the law itself, then someone could conclude either that the Government and the ruling coalition do not care about this law, so it practically leaves the job behind, or that this law is completely insignificant and does not deserve any particular attention. Neither is good if it's true. I hope I'm wrong. What's the problem and the law and the statutes is actually the essence that we have to talk about today. On the one hand, it is obvious that the need for society to change, by defining the state itself, rather than adapting itself to the state. On the other hand, the government issue that took responsibility for the country's leadership, to do everything to meet those needs. What is it that followed this law in public? Before and after all, the great impotence of the ruling coalition that has been chosen to change the country, not in order to open up the space for re-affirming that policy and return to the political life of the country that we have listened to so many times in the past and that we have normally paid in the most expensive way. Some new Slovenians, new Croats, new Montenegrins, new Macedonians, new Bosnians are wanted in the debate before the Constitutional Affairs Committee. In this congregation, where five states failed, they were spoken in a language marked by the collapse of the previous five, and the government must not be silent before that. That's why we needed a serious debate and a whole day of conversation. If the government doesn't have the strength for such a thing, who does? One party of the ruling coalition is not interested in participating in the debate on the law. The Prime Minister and his ministers spent five minutes explaining this law. All of this cannot be pushed into another plan by the fact that the ruling coalition's arguments were given by the party before they entered this room. One part of the government said that this law is the greatest defeat of the idea of autonomous Vojvodina, in one more rude way. The second part of the same ruling coalition said it was a triumph. When was the ruling coalition telling the truth? Do both of those ruling coalitions have the right to consider themselves a party that has told the truth? We have said as a party that at any time we will support the European efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we have done so so far. We have not seen our meaning in opposition action versus something that we define as a public interest, but over the past year, tampering with the statutes and laws only today further obliges us to formulate that policy that will prevent your critics - that they do what they know very well, because you are not able to do what you owe. If the ruling coalition is unable to affirm the concept of decentralisation in the country, to fully affirm the concept of autonomy, be sure - that those who defend Vojvodina today as they defended Kosovo three years ago, five years ago, Montenegro, ten years ago, the Socialist Yugoslavia, know very well. Fears launched in society must not be ignored. We won't get anywhere if you leave this parliament with the support of 140 MPs, but unable to convince citizens -- how pointless it is for Serbia at the same time that Serbia defends itself against Vojvodina and Vojvodina from Serbia, with the same argument and the same dictionary. "Who, who has robbed - New Sad Belgrade or Belgrade Novi Sad? "Where is the difference in the life of the people of Novi Sad and Belgrade when they are equally disfigured and powerless, and without any chance of affecting their lives? This law does not answer that problem of theirs, that common problem of ours. All that stands in this law is actually running away from responsibility. That's what the most fierce critics of the law know very well. Why are they doing this - taking advantage of their chance? They are taking advantage of their opportunity, and we do not have strong enough partners to build a modern, efficient Serbia in the ruling coalition parties. What's a Novi Sad? Is Novi Sad "the capital," "the main administrative center"? Is the capital in the title, but not in the sentence? Where is the meaning of what our society needs in the first place, and here we are talking about the right people to influence their lives? That right is equally denied to someone in Novi Sad, and to someone in Subotica and us who were born here in Belgrade. Why was it such a big problem to tell society the truth - that Serbia is misorganised and that it must fundamentally change as a state, in order to be able to respond to the needs of its society, instead of always, and unfortunately today, to the greatest extent that it threatens? This law doesn't provide an opportunity for anything like that. That's why we're disappointed. We have written an amendment and we expect the ruling coalition to support it, an amendment that will oblige anyone who enters this parliament with a bill of law -- that if in any way this law treats the autonomy of Vojvodina to obtain an opinion and the duchy institutions. What do we need with the duchy parliament, what do we need with the duchy government, what do we need 45 or 46 municipalities in Vojvodina and all the other 100 in Serbia, if there are people who can't answer the problems they face every day? In this regard, it was very important that the government would be put in the process of working on a new statute and law that would ensure the transfer of the necessary powers to Vojvodina. Because if Vojvodina does not have the right to its property, when will the right to that property be achieved by the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, say those located in southern Serbia -- where military bases are opened as perspective jobs? If Belgrade has no right to its property, when will Bela Palanka, one of the poorest municipalities? Where do we fight for these rights, if we don't fight in the space of Vojvodina, through the law that lies before us? All the questions - education, health, environmental, agriculture, all the questions that have anything to do with life in Vojvodina, did not receive answers in this law, but recommended - that the answers would be found in special laws. When? If for a year he traveled the statutes within a ruling coalition from Novi Sad to Belgrade, how many years will all these laws, without which we cannot have a functional country? When we analyzed the policy that is actually behind this law, I believe it is the opinion of all, then we could not escape from the conclusion -- that this law is unwanted and that the government with it came to parliament at the moment when it could no longer avoid it as its obligation, just as the Statute itself. It is true that the statute of the Duke is the expression of the whim of the Duke of Duchy, in the province and the Executive Council. It is a constitutional obligation, a constitutional obligation prescribed by the Constitution that we have criticised, for then we have seen what Serbia is facing today. Among other things, and at this quality of our policy, you appreciate the arguments we make, because you don't need to hit your head against the wall again to see that we're not going anywhere like this. The silence in the government's ranks and the decision to deal with politics in interviews, not here in parliament -- is not what our society needs today. You have seen how severe the accusations were made in the appearances of MPs who excluded themselves from voting on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Our problem isn't their different attitudes. Our problem is the defeating truth that speaks of the belief that is and how it is founded in society, in fact, which is very often not the case, that critics of the statutes and laws today speak for millions of people in this country. Are those people right? No, I don't. Who is responsible -- at least they -- much more the policy that has poisoned them for 20 years, and who today thinks that lightly, without too much effort, they will be able to transform the country without asking their own responsibility for something like that? (Zoran Krasic, from the post: It is SPS. It's true. I mean the SPS, but today, the SPS power comes from the ruling coalition's stance, and that's where representatives of the ruling coalition sit. Who was right - Nenad Canak or Ivica Dacic? We cannot build on these two arguments of happiness in Vojvodina and Serbia. We don't see what the problem was to talk about it openly, because we're normal enough to go from the assumption that we all want some order in this country and that we have the right to be different. But if responsibility and obvious differences are avoided, then the problems that have been made in the past and which this parliament describes as a Assembly of more states than any of the MPs here has mandates -- that's a fact. If we look at the disputed provisions of the law itself, then we'll see that they're meaningless. What is the law in which there is no substance - he is bad? Why do we vote for him - just because we don't want to let that policy, which unlike the ruling coalition's policy in Vojvodina know what it wants, come to the opportunity to do something like that? However, we are prolonging those political moves and decisions that we must make and which need to be made as soon as possible - a broad decentralisation. The broad decentralisation and rights we are fighting for in the Vojvodina area are rights that are equally needed for each other part of Serbia. If we are talking about regional development, then it is unimaginable without the state's decision that all those rights that cannot be achieved to an absolute extent or which does not accomplish in a sufficiently good way are passed on to the lower authorities. We in Belgrade have 600,000 people living without sewers. In this Belgrade, which has taken everything from Serbia and Belgrade when you start an election campaign, say, in the Vozdovac municipality, you run it the same way it is run in Beli Palanca. When you knock people on the door and ask them - what are your needs, they say: container on the street, sidewalk, bus station, sewerage, telephone, trafo station. This isn't just a story about the Vojvodina, this is a story about what Vojvodina symbolizes in the clearest way. About the right of people to influence their lives and commit states to make it possible for them to do so. That's why we have great understanding of something like that, but we have no understanding of politics and we condemn it. Politics is coming to the Assembly with the ambition to put an end to the debate on all this, with the expectation that the tennis tournament will be more interesting than the evening polemics. No debate on the law has been held at the Public Service. No talk about the statutes. Where will Nenad Canak take Vojvodina? Where will he take her where she hasn't already arrived? With four MPs in the Serbian Parliament, as much as in Vojvodina. What's the DS gonna do if she keeps quiet? You cannot go beyond the fact that we agree to an unsustainable language here, that we have listened to the Committee on Constitutional Issues of Separatism and that the Deputy Prime Minister has practically confirmed something like that in his interviews, in which he addresses his electoral body as if he were not the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. She can do that at her MP's club meeting, but that's not how one country is run if she wants to do well. The sooner you figure it out, the sooner everyone gets better. We want to help society and therefore we will vote in favour of the law and the statutes, but none, including us, of all those who will vote in favour of the law and the statutes will do so confidently that it does absolutely the right thing, but it will do so as it was voted in 2000 for the presidential candidate, because it has to, so here we are ten years later in the problems that we couldn't even imagine at the time. Several basic answers to the question whether Vojvodina should have a government, whether Novi Sad is the main, comma administrative center or capital. Several questions on the right of the Vojvodina to establish its public enterprises, to make its revenues. In all this there is nothing controversial if it brings benefits to Vojvodina, good to Vojvodina - good to Serbia. The rights given to the Vojvodina must be rights that will allow other citizens in the country. Not at the same level, but equally effective. The right that will make the most efficient lives of people in Vojvodina must be available to us here in Belgrade, and to someone in Kragujevac, someone in Nis, in every municipality in Serbia. It is the best answer to those criticisms that scare part of Serbia and feed the policy that, defending Serbia's interests, has made Serbia the happiest European country of the 21st century. We want to get an answer from you, Mr Cvetkovic, when there will be a law before us on the return of property to local self-government, when the property will be returned in accordance with the law here mentioned in the province, when Belgrade will have the right to have its own property, and therefore you, as Prime Minister, will have fewer headaches because you will not be obliged to respond to any problem in Serbia. Serbia was turned on its head the moment people were deprived of the right to solve their problems, in the name of a policy that wanted to distance them from the possibility of affecting their lives. That's why we don't need coverts. That's why we don't need clear institutions. If you've adopted a constitution that was more voted on than it was, then you're obliged as a government to respect it. The constitution gives full legitimacy to all the initiatives in Vojvodina that led to the statutes and strongly compromises the ruling coalition here in Belgrade, which was unable to do its job within the deadlines prescribed by the Constitution. What's in the statute and the law? What is a compromise of the ruling majority, which at the same time celebrates this status because it is sacred to the Vojvodina or because it finally repays the debts of the Vojvodina. We condemn it and consider it wrong and wrong. What kind of Serbia do we need? Modernly organized, decentralised, with clearly defined rights and obligations and above all, and above all, and above all, effective. We do not recognize in the statutes or in the laws of mechanisms that will make life more efficient in Vojvodina. Institutions continue to be paralysed with different boards, but without being able to do anything concrete. It will be a problem tomorrow for each of the parties, and for LDP and each other who votes for the statute and the law, because people will seek results, and we will not show it because it is impossible to come to the bottom unless the result is a status quo. That is why it is clear what order of moves are and at this point it is very far from being able to achieve the constitutional definition of the country, the modern European state, broad autonomy with clear rights and obligations and a completely decentralised country that will allow every man to influence the power to which power depends. That's the problem and the law and the statutes because it doesn't make it possible. I hope that by the end of the debate, at least through your parliamentary clubs, you will defend the idea of a democratic, modern, European Serbia, not by silence and silence from the weaknesses and mistakes that marked the work of the law and the statute, but through insistence precisely on that concept which today, although not achieved, gives some hope for a better and happier future, which is this European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31296	The president of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, Mr Branko Ruzic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31297	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, there is one of the most important laws that we have been waiting for for for a long period of months, but it is never too late if an effort is made to emulate such a significant law and the interests of citizens, who are the holders of the sovereignty of our country and in accordance with the Constitution of the RS, but if it is also aligned with this highest legal act, both the statutes and, of course, this law that corresponds with it. Autonomy and it's essential yes, but not the state of the country. It is something that is maximum and parliamentary groups of SPS-JS, but I am sure all those well-intentioned who respect the highest legal act of the state in which they live and the state in which they deal with politics. Of course, there was a lot of controversy, there was the use of the text of the law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, and it would come under criticism from some, but I think it was much better and much more serious than that we entered on a one-way trip, that we accepted such a non-critical and without any argument what was originally proposed. Our intensities were that our amendments to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, which became an integral part of the statutes, by voting all those who voted in favour of this statute in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, would practically liken that statute with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and for this reason we express our satisfaction. As for this law that's on the agenda today, there's no reason for extreme views, there's no reason for any fear that some are broadcasting to citizens that there's going to be some new separatism, that there's going to be some secession, secession, etc., but also, with such things, with a state structure, with a territory of a state that's indivisible, it just can't be traded. Of course, we are against politics too, which is why we are seriously dealing with this issue. That is why we may have waited until today and tomorrow, and this week, that what is prescribed by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution that we have all brought together, therefore, that this law and this statute, or law, be adopted, and the statutes are confirmed in this highest representative home. It's defined to be up to 31. 12 years ago, this job was completed, but it was also defined that, for example, the law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was passed in the same period, and we still haven't done it, and I hope that we will be able to finish it very soon. Of course the concept of evolution exists in the world, as there is dialectics. It's normal to pursue reforms. It's normal for us to go evolutionaryly in these reforms, and it's normal for us to have some responsibilities that we've passed on since 2002 to those so-called. "omnibus" by law, which is not a lot of those powers that we provide for this law to pass on to the AP Vojvodina, we can call it, to say, an initial chapel towards this evolution, towards decentralisation, demetropolisation and regionalisation of Serbia. Our society for all these processes must be mature, mature and see that it matures over time, and those who have the heritage of European values, those who fear the signing of some regional agreements or the co-operation of regions that are common in the world, have in Germany a case that all federal states have their own representation in Berlin and that they can co-operate, to achieve here, to say, communication, why is it disputed that someone has the right to do the same from the AP position? This is a kind of alignment with constitutional solutions, is a consistent implementation of decentralisation and preparation for some further processes that do not mean either separatism, or secession, but precisely the realization of what will lead us to Serbia's citizens being virtually those who are wondering about both the conditions of their life and the conditions of their own life and what is affecting them. I do not think that there is any danger here, precisely because many have insisted on the use of these two acts with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is important that all those who have criticism of that account will have the opportunity here today to take it out and to state why the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is not reflected in the constitutional framework, i.e. the highest legal act of our country. I will only list some of the members of the Constitution who correspondence with the members of the draft law establishing the competence of the AP. Article 12. The constitution says - state power is limited to citizens' rights to rural autonomy. Also, Article 176 defines this right to autonomy and these two members are practically correspondence with Article 2 of this Act on determining the competence of the AP. Also, Article 181. The RS constitution defines that the AP co-operate, as well as local self-government, but this is, of course, the AP, co-operate with relevant territorial communities of other countries within the framework of the foreign policy of the RS, with respect for territorial unity and legal order of the RS, correspondence with Article 3. So, I don't see any discrepancy. To the question that my esteemed colleague Jovanovic has asked here, if this was about the stories of the town of Novi Sad, I must say it is totally relevant whether someone is right or wrong. I believe that Article 4 of this Law on determining jurisdiction, paragraph 5, clearly answers the question of who was right. I think there are a lot of essential things that are much more important than how the New Sad was defined. It is defined as the main administrative centre, and that is the only thing that is evident, acceptable and possible for us, based on that amendment that has practically become an integral part of the proposal for the AP Statute. Also, what is very important, for those who are skeptics in this matter, they can read Article 9 of this bill and see that there is one control mechanism if someone goes astray in law enforcement or starts to violate, God forbid, integrity, sovereignty or something else defined by the Constitution. "The government may, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of the AP Vojvodina decision before its entry into force. In that case, the Constitutional Court may postpone the entry into force of the disputed decision of the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, until its decision has been taken. The Government, or the Second Authorised Proposer, may initiate a procedure to assess the constitutionality and legality of the General Act of the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, the enforcement of an individual act or the action of the AP Vojvodina body, which is taken on the basis of the general act of the AP Vojvodina body, whose constitutionality or legality is assessed, may be suspended in accordance with the Constitution and the law. There's no reason for any hysteria, fear, etc. As regards Articles 183 and 15 of those social spheres, Article 183. The RS constitution, these 15 spheres of social beings, are defined in the RS Constitution. The Law on Determining Jurisdiction only elaborates them to detail, but in addition to each item, it is said that the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities in the area of spatial planning of regional development, will, in accordance with the law, and we also know that according to the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, not make laws, but make parliamentary decisions. So, according to the law, which we will bring, of course, we here in this house, so there is no reason for any fear in this respect either. As for new points such as employment, health insurance, it's clear that this is about organisational units, whether it's the National Employment Service or the PIO Fund, when we're talking about PIO. I think it is very important that this topic, no matter how long it has been the subject of public attention, no matter how much it has been the subject of some demagogue attempts to have some on this topic now, which have advocated Serbia's regionalisation in six regions since 2001, and then advocated that Vojvodina has legislative and judicial authority, are now practically on it "seire" and that they are talking about this being separatism and that there will be some turbulence in the state of Serbia. Of course not, but by passing this law and confirming the statutes, if that happens, we will demonstrate the degree of maturity and readiness we are prepared to move forward. When someone here talked about the first Deputy Prime Minister and the SPS president saying something and verbalizing this topic in a way that's the language of the '90s, it's just not true. When he said someone had suffered defeat, labeling autonomists. The autonomist is a pessimistic term for those who may have been prone to some, say, secessions, etc., in the earlier period, but I can't say that anyone who sits in the ruling coalition is an autonomist. Neither can Mr. Canak, I'm sure, because it was all these people who worked together to imitate this text of the bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, as well as the statutes of the AP Vojvodina. What is also important, we from the Socialist Party of Serbia of Unity Serbia, as I said, will never allow and I hope now and for Serbia's citizens to know that we did not allow, when our amendments were adopted, that there is a shred of doubt that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been violated on any issue, and particularly on this caliber, which is very important and of state interest. And what we will always insist on, which we have insisted on as a state-run party, is that it cannot in Serbia exist a state in the country. But we can't resist respecting specificity, we can't oppose the constitutional right to the autonomy of a citizen now being prevented, it just wasn't our policy or our previous years. Of course, by matured society and raising the level of political awareness, not with us politicians but also with the citizens of Serbia, it also matures the possibility of these evolutionary changes to come to this demotropolisation, decentralisation and regionalisation, but that it will not expropriate some secessionist demands, but rather the demands that our citizens, as holders of sovereignty in the territories where they live, arrange their lives in a way that will primarily be in the function of rationalisation and cost, if we want to talk about it, but in the function of the state, the state in which they live, so the state of Serbia. The constitution clearly defines what Serbia's territory is, that it is indivisible and also, those who have contributed greatly to the break-up of Montenegro, I don't think they have the moral right to set up some comparisons with this act now. Of course, I don't mean a certain parliamentary group, which had its representative here today, there were some who swore a lot of things, so eventually led to disintegration, it was about a period after 5 October 2000. So, as for the Socialist Party of Serbia – Unique Serbia, it would be really illusory that, after months of working on a proposal for this law to determine the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, we are now going out with some reserves on the very text of this law, because we have participated in its creation, in its repair, as well as all our coalition partners. What has now become interesting to some, as regards the New Sad, as the main administrative centre, so for us it is only possible and acceptable what is written in Article 4 of this Law and what is written in Article 10 of the proposed Statute. It's something that's inevitable, something that's quite clear. I don't think that this subject, as interesting and as perceptive as it is from different sides in different ways, is the essential theme of this law. The fundamental theme of this law and the very proposal for a statute is also a improvement for the citizens of Serbia, namely the people of Vojvodina, which they have confirmed practically in the assembly of the AP Vojvodina through their representatives. The most important thing for us is that our six amendments, the parliamentary groups in the province's parliament of the SPS, the PUPS and the Vršačka region, that these six amendments are incorporated into the very text of the statutes and that this has practically removed all doubts and possibilities that in some way the Constitution can be violated. It is legitimate for opposition parties to point out certain things that we may not have paid attention to, but there are instances in this country that can determine whether or not the Constitution is broken, and for politics and political action it is legitimate to use strong words without essentially meaning anything, because they do not have a foothold in the texts of these two acts. In the end, I thank you and I want to say that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote for this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31298	Replica, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31299	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I called after Mr Ruzic mentioned me. You didn't understand me at all, which I don't think is a particular problem in itself, but it is a problem for our society. I was talking about bad policies, Mr. Ruzic, who perform with ambition to defeat their citizens and, among other things, you are the protagonists of one such policy. Your president, as part of the ruling coalition that came before us into parliament with the law, said he beat his coalition partner in the ruling coalition. It's not what we need. We can agree that our country is tragically organized and that we need concrete solutions, but what are these solutions? We compromised a centralised organised state, as it turned into a despotia in Serbia's version. We cannot ignore the nachy mentality, which is thus expressed through local kabadiahs that reign over Serbia, which all of the presidents of the state, the Prime Minister, are courted to the last citizen of their local self-government. What is the form of the organization of our country that we want to create in order to do something useful on it? We can't all in Serbia agree, absolutely stand behind one solution, but the government didn't even try to convince its citizens why this is a good solution, it didn't even come out with any calming message – this is a compromise at a given moment, but the government inside itself acts in such a way that all the winners and all the losers, and that's what's wrong. Your party voted in favour of the draft statute a year ago, which you today call an attempt to create a state in the country. I guarantee that was not so, that no one in Vojvodina wants to create from the Vojvodina state in Serbia. Are there real fears of something like that? Yes, they exist in our society. Then politics is built in accordance with those fears, not with some positive ambition. That's our problem. Now we have to read, what – statute or law? The statute states – the capital of Vojvodina, then says – Novi Sad is the main administrative centre. The law does not mention the capital of Vojvodina, but territory and symbols. All this together tells us that there is neither Vojvodina nor Serbia, because in such a way Belgrade ceases to be the capital, to some new ruling coalition that will move the interpretation where it suits it. The government needs to convince us why this is good, and we only vote for it because of what follows, and what's bad, this law and statute, so that the story ends as soon as possible. That's what we need. Both your president and presidents of other ruling coalition parties, who will ask Serbian citizens to understand the moment in which the country is located and to support something like this, not to run their party policies the way it suits them. Did the circuit board of the SPS vote a year ago for the statutes? He voted, the Duke's Parliament voted. What amendments to the Duke's statute? We never said anything about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31300	Time. Mr. Branko Ruzic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31301	Indeed, Mr. Jovanovic, I have no intention of entering the controversy with you. It is indisputable for you to want and contribute to reforms in Serbia, I am not questioning it at all. I just want to point out the facts. The SPS president and the first Deputy Prime Minister never said that he beat one of his coalition partners, and what is more important, is that you must know that the circuit boards do not vote in the Assembly, either the AP, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you know that only then did the provincial Assembly vote. What is the final and final instance is this home here and here we will vote on both this law and the statute. As far as this ruling coalition is concerned, it may simply not be acceptable to you, and perhaps that's why you're not in it, but it is and exudes one unity of diversity, but we are gathered around those topics that are important to Serbia, and I think that in those five points we have in large part and your support. I think that support of yours is extremely valuable, but if we don't deal with politics right now, I won't answer to you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31302	Mr. Alexander Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Branko Ruzic mentioned some political parties that allegedly shed crocodile tears because the SRJ disappeared and probably thought there, I apologize if I misread the SRS. But there's something else, Mr. Rose. You are now trying to convince us that there are two Socialist parties and two democratic parties in Serbia. One Socialist Party really voted in favour of the anti-Constitutional Statute of Vojvodina in October 2008, because you yourself admitted: "We are fortunate that we did not go that way and have submitted amendments to the Statute of Vojvodina." We have submitted amendments to an act that we previously voted on. You have thus admitted that the original version of the Statute of Vojvodina was contrary to the Constitution, because if it is not contrary to the Constitution, what do you submit to the amendments? Who will explain it to the citizens of Serbia? Now you're saying that some people are scared. Allow me, you have now admitted that this original Statute of the Vojvodina was the opposite of the Constitution of Serbia and that it has actually marked the way towards the creation of an independent state. Now you've prevented it by submitting amendments to an act you voted for a year ago. So there appear to be two Socialist parties, two democratic parties. One in the Vojvodina Assembly says -- people, this is all in accordance with the Constitution, there is no problem at all, and the other Socialist party that submits amendments to one draft statute that was obviously the opposite of Serbia's Constitution. Who now trusts you when you say - there's nothing controversial here, there's no state behind this. A year ago, you claimed the same thing about that original version -- no, it's nothing controversial, it's all in accordance with the Constitution. After a year, the same party submitted amendments to an act she voted for. Who is going to be responsible, and how will the citizens of Serbia believe you when you tell them - this is all in accordance with the Constitution, this is just one autonomous province, there is no state here? Then Mr. Branko Ruzic says -- you know, in Germany, the state has the right to conclude agreements. Mr. Ruzic, the full name of Germany is the Federal Republic of Germany, which means a federally arranged state. Serbia is a unitary state under the Constitution. Are you calling for the federalisation of Serbia? Does this mean that Vojvodina should be a pandan of Bavaria, North Rhine and Westphalia, federal units in Germany? If so, then say it openly, and not -- this is not federalization, this radicals scare the people, and then a representative of the ruling party comes forward and calls for the Federal Republic of Germany. Yesterday, Mr. Milan Markovic told a daily newspaper -- he never opposed the constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31304	Time. Mr. Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31305	I really apologize to my colleagues and colleagues, since I've taken up time that I don't normally take away. Mr. Martinovic, I must tell you that you misrepresented yourself. If you recognize yourself fearing the citizens of Serbia, then it is your right. I didn't even focus my discussion on the SRS. Also, you know there's only one SPS and only one DS. It's important that this SRS, it's probably important to you, remains one without what happened to you in the past months. As far as this question is concerned, the question here is so asked that you once wanted to say by manipulation that I was saying that the previous text of the statute was practically an introduction to an independent state. We never mentioned an independent state, we mentioned the principle of state in the country, but if we could explain that to detail what was going on now, I must say that our amendments have just contributed to the perfection of bringing about a comparison with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If that's something that's bad, if it's something that's wrong, I don't know why that would be a problem. So there is one SPS, our province MPs then voted for that statute and it is not disputed. Also, it is not disputed that by one process of evolution, which you probably don't know about, given that you have entered into your political barbars, you should in time find that some nuances should, in practice, contribute to the law and the statute itself being made available by the Constitution. I don't see anything controversial about it. The statute did not come to this house, and you and I agree that, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, this house makes laws, and that home makes congregation decisions, this house confirms or does not confirm that statute and adopts a law on determining jurisdiction, as this house has made so-called. The omnibus law, when we passed a large number of responsibilities at the time, when neither you nor we were in power, and there were some who were now criticising this law on determining jurisdiction. Also, I won't answer to you anymore, because I don't want to take my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31306	Mr. Martinovic, there's no reason for replication. Just in terms of clarification and nothing else. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today, on November 24th, by emergency procedure, ignoring the procedure in the Serbian Parliament, we are passing a law on the establishment, I would say, the essential autonomy of Vojvodina and that is what should have been called, but you have avoided it because the Constitution provides essential autonomy exclusively for Kosovo and Metohija. It's very urgent for us that, 13 months after our statutes were passed, we decided to enter the procedure for the adoption of the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. In fact, we allowed ourselves to come out of the statutes, not to let the statutes come out of the law, and since the statute is, it seems, more invariably, unchangeable, counting on the majority of the Vojvodina Assembly, we are today even getting disinformation from the president of the Legislative Committee that these two acts have been harmonised and that we can freely vote for both, although in the basic provisions these two acts differ exceptionally. The question arises - what is it going to apply in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, for example, will Vojvodina have a government or an executive council? If the statute says Vojvodina has a government, and the law on the transfer of jurisdiction says it has an executive council, I'm really interested in it, Mr. Cvetkovic, what did your good lawyers tell you about it later? I am obliged to explain, on behalf of the SNS, why we have been insisting on extraordinary parliamentary elections for several months. It is true that the situation, both economically and socially, in the country is extremely bad, it is true that the composition of parliament, and the particular composition of the ruling majority, does not suit the wishes of Serbian citizens, but there is another reason I have not spoken to today, and now I will tell you, my dear gentlemen of the ruling majority. I am witnessing that representatives of this and such ruling majority have acted badly in historical times for the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens. So, this majority is made up of people who, raising their hands in the Serbian Parliament, have accepted the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin agreement, thus keeping us directly away from Kosovo and Metohija. There's SPS and SPS. In this assembly, the people who accepted the Belgrade agreement separated Serbia-Montenegro. There are both DS, and SPS, and G17 plus and all other parties of the ruling majority. In this assembly, there are people who would now decide what degree of autonomy the Vojvodina should have and will be the voices of the same people who separated Serbia-Montenegro and who distanced Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. Historically, twice you have shown historical irresponsibility and I don't think the citizens of Serbia are in the mood to leave this to you. I don't think you can handle this well. And the fate of law-making, so long hesitation, amendments to the statutes and today's session itself say you've prepared a new big prank. What's this about? Why are we discussing these two agenda points separately? We have time for one point and the other. When you put these two together, you'd get a joint debate with extended time, but you're avoiding it because you owe small strangers, who help you stay in power and patch up now and Serbia's territory, you owe them and you weren't allowed to compare those two proposals today, here, member by member, but today we're going to discuss the law on determining jurisdiction, and tomorrow or the day after that on the statute. What is this debate on two absolutely related proposals that the Assembly is to discuss? Today we're going to attack you for one provision, and tomorrow we're going to attack you for the same questions that are diametrically different. You think here in this congregation in benches that aren't the ruling majority are little children? No, there are very serious people sitting here, very interested that Serbia is moving on, but that it goes on really how other countries and other nations do, helping each other, developing each other, not arguing and alienating. This is the selfishness of the people who run the AP Vojvodina. Their selfishness stems from a statute like this, because today in the debate, it sounds like you have no autonomy, as if this was the first act to establish the autonomy of the Vojvodina. I say that Vojvodina has enough autonomy and that anything further than that is very suspicious and makes me think that the Shumadis should also think about, that Raska should also think about, that both south and west, both east and all other Serbia and all other regions should think about what their share, what their original share, which will finance their responsibilities. Have we been developing solidly as part of Serbia, just as Kragujevac and Piroth, considering even regional development. Did we invest a lot in Vojvodina? We did. What do you say now? It's the property of the Duke. So many years of investment, so where's your credentials at least? Why don't they bring some abroad to share this property, see who owns it? No, you even prejudge the provisions of the public property law, you already know what will happen in the public property of the Duke. Who guaranteed it to you? In Article 1, you say - this law lays down jurisdiction, in Article 2, you say that Vojvodina, in accordance with the Constitution and the Statute, governs jurisdiction. There is no law anymore, and what is in accordance with the Constitution here is quoted by all MPs of the ruling majority. Three members of the Constitution that talk about autonomy, everything else is the law. You are knowingly avoiding that law. You from today, ever since we passed the law on the regulation of jurisdiction and statutes, you will completely bypass the Serbian Parliament whenever issues are considered that are important for all Serbia and are applied in the territory of Vojvodina. We have proven to you the amendments after that that you, the Duke himself, determines what is a matter of importance to Vojvodina. Well, as long as you think you're developing what you're doing. Autonomously, no one will object to you that this is actually the creation of a new state. What did you say, insult us? You say that Vojvodina traditionally cultivates European principles and values. And where are they not nursed? Is it possible that Nis, Ristic, does not traditionally cultivate European principles and values? So why don't we get into some law, why don't we get into the law so we can also cultivate European values and traditions in Nis? How come only in Vojvodina, is it just because something traditionally cherished in it now has to get speciality? What are we, savages, we have no value, no tradition? Or maybe we only have a Serbian tradition, so it's not enough to get autonomy within Serbia, it's not enough to get 7% of the budget, which you're going to decide for yourself and how to spend it and plus everything we object to the amendments. You've stepped a long way, gentlemen, not two SPS, one DS, because DS is thinking in both Vojvodina and this Serbian Parliament in the same way. The Statute says we have the government of Vojvodina. Why doesn't the law say we have a government of the Vojvodina? Why hasn't DS not reconciled her views? What are we going to do next, start a representativeship in Brussels? Well, it's IPA funds. We know what you want, you'll be the first to run to those funds on behalf of Serbia, because that's selfishness in action, unlimited selfishness. You've got a network of roads, a network of highways, you've got rivers, all the investments of a bunch in Vojvodina. By the way, you've already built hangars in the fertile fields, loading bays, truck resorts, for God's sakes. What remains of other parts of Serbia, who thinks about them? The Duke no longer. You're making too many promises to the people of Vojvodina, it's gonna turn out that we're not good at what we don't give, and I'm just pointing out that there's a lot of millions of Serbian citizens and that there's not just Vojvodina, and that all of this looks like we're going to have Serbian Ministers of Territories outside of the AP Vojvodina from now on, because other than defence, and who cares more than defence and police, what else remains in common? In what other area does the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia have jurisdiction over Vojvodina? Not in any of them. What's this about? It's about a state of cover. From point to point. A referendum, ladies and gentlemen. How do you get these provisions for the referendum, how is it not necessary for the referendum to be 50% plus one vote for the entries? No, you're taking the citizens to the referendum and you're saying he did it if 50% plus one came out. Well, it's a presidential election, it doesn't matter what the referendum is, but you've seen that there's a referendum in Montenegro under some strange conditions, so let's apply it in Vojvodina. Plus when you figure out where anyone can vote, there's your whites. Fifty percent plus one, ladies and gentlemen of Vojvodina, when voting at a referendum in Vojvodina, that referendum will be valid. Well, that's the world principle. Nobody invented it here. The Prime Minister says she was in need of this. No, this was an ultimatum, Mr. Prime Minister, or these political dwarfs will leave the government or you will pass this law. You can't go to the election, you're guarding this majority. So what do we do now, how far do we step, as you say, Srema, Banat and Back? Someone here dares to say traditional names. Is there any reason why Srem entered Serbia and Banat and Backo entered the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians? Who else does a man trust when he starts to attach himself to tradition and history for which tradition and history binds? When you're attached to reaching the level of autonomy you're bound to in 1974. Watch out, the immunity of the circuit officials for a spoken word. Well, I guess every Serbian citizen enjoys immunity for a spoken word, huh? No one else in Serbia can be convicted of what he said, for his own position. Are you going to punish citizens who say we're against this autonomy now in Vojvodina, we think it's too wide? Will they be held accountable? Only officials, only elected persons in Vojvodina are not responsible for the spoken word. Since you're not ashamed, with so many European values and traditions, that you single out people who won't be punished for a spoken word and that everyone else is thinking about whether they can say something because they can be punished, they don't enjoy immunity. This attitude is very interesting and I have to read it. Article 9(1) would vote if you adopted it: "The questions of the province importance of the AP Vojvodina are governed by its acts in areas which are in accordance with the Constitution and the law in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, or which are legally defined as matters of regional importance". And why did you not say such - questions in areas that are in line with the Constitution and the law in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, or which are legally defined as matters of the provincial importance of the AP Vojvodina, governing its acts? No, you first say that you will edit with your acts what you think is of the province's importance. So from now on, you will be running your own destiny, not thinking about what other people in Serbia think about it. Then you say, if the relevant republican authority doesn't give you a regulation, you'll be applying some of your regulations by the time someone rises up or another regulation comes. What do you think when a citizen turns to his country to solve something, so until he does, he starts doing what he's talking about. He ends it by how he handled it, so now the final act. There's a lot that you've been completely involved in the jurisdiction of the state and completely kicked out, ignoring the state. You in the field of education, even for institutions established by the state, when they expand their activities, when they change their names, you decide, which you did not take, but remain as state. What are you state? Tell us openly here, don't lie to us and don't make these people disagree with you to lie to us, to justify themselves before history. Vote me publicly or secretly, there's a list of how one of us voted, when this bill is at the polls. It is a list of people who will decide Serbia's fate. So please, who from all parts of Serbia vote here, think carefully, who brought you into that circuit, who put you in that car. Is everything okay in your neighborhood? Do you have those rights? What does Vojvodina say? It will determine about minorities what to do and not even say about minorities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but rather think about the territory of all Serbia. In 13 months, you didn't think to adapt the law to the AP Vojvodina. What is abolishing Fruska Gora National Park as a state institution? Whose is Fruska Gora? Is it just you from Vojvodina? Or is Fruska Gora - all Serbian citizens, all our children and all our ancestors? How can you not be ashamed? Why didn't you say the Danube River is being abolished, becoming the Duke River of Dunav? Is there anything in common for you, gentlemen of the Vojvodina, with us who are not of the Vojvodina? What do you want us to do, start not loving the Duke? Well, who can do that? Who can? Only you, alone who are now leading the Vojvodina, have no sympathy for other parts of Serbia and show it clearly to these laws and to single yourself out as specialities. You've reached statehood, it's still all state, and you're in a hurry until the Constitutional Court is elected in full formation, so that eventually, when we write our plays to the Constitutional Court, these ten elected by the will of Bishop Boris, they make the appropriate decisions. That's what people are like. That's what most people run the National Assembly. That's what most people run Serbia. The Prime Minister has no idea about this law. He read us the explanation from the bill. Do you, Mr. President, know the provisions of this law? Is there somewhere we can cross a spear by those provisions? Do you know what was done in education? Do you know that Vojvodina determines the network of courts in the territory of the Vojvodina? Everything that is now on the territory of the Vojvodina is being arranged by the Vojvodina. What's wrong with you guys? What are we, snotty? Is that supposed to get away from us? Is it a handicap not to be born in Vojvodina, not to live in Vojvodina? Do you want us all to live in Vojvodina? What is your wish, which now so cruelly defines Vojvodina as an absolute speciality compared to all Serbian citizens? You cooperate, as you said there, with the territorial organizations of other countries, not with regional organisations of other countries, but with territorial ones. So, how is the EU organised, on a territorial basis? Will you cooperate directly with the EU, to get there first? Is that what we're going to do in two columns in the EU? Will you be the first to reach EU funds? I don't know if you even think about our children living in the same country. If you think so, give it up. If you think, let's sit down and discuss what else is missing from Vojvodina's autonomy. Let's not be savage, let's not be hateful, let's not look like a rip-off and a SFRY, and a SRJ, and a Serbia-Montenegro, let's not look like anything we've experienced so far. Let's talk once as people. No, you're the ruling majority. You write each other changes, you push your leg. How do you write amendments, Mr. Rose, that you insist only on what you've changed? Why don't you insist on what you're not? Why didn't you erase the word "capital city" in all attitudes? What does "the main regional center" even mean? Isn't that a regional center? Now there's a main regional centre, just to mention the word "main" still, to satisfy Mr. Chank's ambitions, which he's already set up billboards -- here, finally with the new Sad adjective "main". The main what? The head of Cank's headquarters. In the election, gentlemen, so whoever wins 5% come here to discuss everything that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31308	Twenty minutes. I thank the People's Parliament, time at your disposal used. Does MP Slobodan Samardzic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, want the word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31309	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, that when we draft this law that we are talking about today, we would probably have a peaceful debate on the law that needs to determine the jurisdiction of Vojvodina. That direction was also followed by a government representative to give one tone to this debate and in his inspired and inspiring opening speech, during the five minutes, he did not even mention what is the birthplace of this law, which is the Statute of Vojvodina. I would like to remind you that the Serbian Constitution has determined that the law determines or determines the jurisdiction of an autonomous province in the areas already established by the Constitution, and that then the Statute of Vojvodina, one of which is perhaps the most important part, is part of the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina. We should pretend to be ignorant, as if we don't know what happened and how it was done in Serbia regarding the statute and the law. Namely, the First Proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina was first adopted, as you know, in the Assembly of Vojvodina, and then the Law of Determining Jurisdiction was adapted to this proposal of the Statute. He adapted, and in many elements he prescribed it. Following the writing of the Statutes of Vojvodina, there was a constitution, the establishment of a Resavina school in Germany 11, which had sat down and prescribed many provisions of the Vojvodina statutes, therefore, and the provisions in which Vojvodina or the Vojvodina Assembly had assigned itself jurisdiction, but also many provisions concerning Vojvodina's status, as one truly established new autonomous part of the state of Serbia. This is why today when we talk about the law on determining jurisdiction, we cannot only talk about this law, although we will talk about it too much today, but we must also talk about the law, as I said, of the birthplace of this law, which is the Statute of Vojvodina. Of course, I'll dedicate most of my exposure to the law itself, but what I'm saying is that the statute is actually that big fat shadow that covered that law. Under the Constitution of Serbia, the law is governed by every sublegal act and it, therefore, has both legal and time precedes the sublegal act that is based on the law. Here in this case we have a truly bizarre, exotic contribution of today's Serbia to modern legal practice and science. We have here, first of all, the making of a sublegal act, the subordinate, and then it's based on it to make the superior, formally speaking, and that's the law. So everything's upside down and upside down. That's why it's important to say something about the statute itself. Namely, the statute, adopted by the Vojvodina Assembly last September 2008, has the structure of a quasi-sustained act. The statute is called the statute because the Constitution itself says that Vojvodina has the statute as its founding act, but it is very much reminded of the Constitution. The statute has a preamble, which the statutes do not have, a very solemn preamble. It establishes the constituents of Vojvodina, the citizens of Vojvodina and the national community, categories that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know. The statute lays down the territory of the Vojvodina in a manner of determination as if Vojvodina were a separate territory. We'll talk about this later, when we talk about the law. The statute assumes the right to autonomously determine the symbols of Vojvodina, to determine the capital of Vojvodina, to autonomously determine the property of Vojvodina. That's what the statute says, that it independently or autonomously determines the sources of income and the financing of Vojvodina. It takes the right of its statute, since it is a quasi-constitutional act, to determine in some 10 members the human and minority rights to be exercised in Vojvodina. It takes the responsibility from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that the Constitution itself determines human and minority rights, so it adds it to itself. The statute sends itself a large number of responsibilities, some of which do not correspond to the extent of the responsibilities prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to Vojvodina. The statute as a quasi-constituent act speaks of the authorities of Vojvodina and the relationship between the Assembly and the Government of Vojvodina determines by the principle of the division of power, the principle used to organise the central government in the state. In fact, this all didn't happen by accident and it didn't all fall from the sky, this kind of content of the statutes, so one quasi-constitutional content of the statutes. In recent Serbian history, there is a continuity of such action. Namely, there is once again a dream in Vojvodina about the Brion Vojvodina in Brion Yugoslavia. It is a tradition called the preamble that says: based on the historical rights of citizens and citizens of Vojvodina to autonomy. The dream is awakening again and evoke forces that intend to restore the status of Vojvodina within Serbia, but also in the recent past, we have a lot of attempts to get this thing back into Serbia's frameworks. I remind you that in 2003, the Vojvodina Assembly had one draft so-called The basic law of Vojvodina, where Vojvodina is attributed to a legislative, executive and partial judicial authority. The very name of this act "basic law" should actually simulate the constitutionality of Vojvodina. You know that a large country in the EU, Germany's largest, calls its constitution a basic law, so it is not by chance that this act was also called and this thing was removed from the agenda in 2003 due to some really specific circumstances that I would not be talking about now so as not to waste my time. A few years later, however, the Implementing Greater Vojvodina is building a platform on the position of Vojvodina in Serbia's new constitution, which is a simplified version of this basic law. The platform also advocates the legislative, executive and partial judicial authority in Vojvodina and was in fact the basis of the creation of this draft statute, which was finally adopted in the Vojvodina Assembly in September 2008. There is one continuity of operations within the Vojvodina Assembly, which actually wants to achieve one result, which is that Vojvodina acquires, attaches, attributes to the attributes of statehood, either in a way that is within the statutes or perhaps basic law, or platform, or already how. It's one context that determines the writing of this law. My basic thesis is that the law is prescribed statutes, not literally, but largely. This law had an interesting and specific odyssey. He traveled between Novi Sad and Belgrade for about 10-12 months. He started to pretend, I may not have good information, but as far as I know, somewhere in early 2009. He had one public version in March 2009, which was withdrawn from use. It was only after eight months of that first public version that came to the agenda of this assembly, and in order to compare the efficiency of the Assembly's work when it comes to this important law, which is actually meant to contribute to the formation of the constitutional system of Serbia, I must remind you that the Assembly adopted 51 European laws in a quarter from March to May. Watch out for the hyperproduction and hyperactivity of the congregation, and the government was unable to present this law for 10 months before this assembly. Why? Because it is not a law written under the Constitution of Serbia, but a law written on the basis of the statue of Vojvodina, on the basis of a sublegal act, and it has taken a very long time for the members of the ruling coalition to agree, and it is 15 units, parties, NGOs, individuals, etc., within the Serbian government, to then agree those parties on their relations with Belgrade-Novi Sad, and then to agree with the Serbian government ministers and the province's secretaries on the powers to be attributed to Vojvodina. We have a very long process with a very bad result. Now I will also try to illustrate the results of this law or this copying activity of this Resave school that worked in Germany 11 and which had before it a proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina. I will mention the provisions of this law that are in line with the Vojvodina statute, but are not in line with the Serbian Constitution. It's the result of the activity and the process and the violation of the procedure I've been talking about so far. Already in Article 3 of the law, prescribing the statutes, the AP Vojvodina concluded inter-regional agreements under its jurisdiction. Namely, the Serbian Constitution allows Vojvodina to maintain interregional relations. It does not provide that the necessary agreements must be an elve of maintaining interregional relations, but even if we assume that interregional agreements are not contrary to the Constitution, it was really essential that this law speak its word on the matter, not simply to rewrite the proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina. These agreements can and must be concluded only with the agreement of the Serbian government. Only then would this provision be in line with the Constitution and in accordance with the practice of European states, where various regional units, whether they are federal units or regions, are either autonomous communities or are dukes in Poland, conclude this kind of agreement, but with the consent of the Government. In the position of the 3rd member of the Vojvodina, by prescribing the Statute of Vojvodina, it shall be designated as a region. Serbia's constitution only knows the autonomous province, does not know the region. The region is a modern pan-European term, which should be respected and which has some abstract meaning because it covers all forms of government in countries under central government, whether it is federal states or regional states or decentralised states, but the Constitution does not have the term "region". The law and statute gave the term to Vojvodina so that it could say that the region opens representations, which this law follows consistently, in various regional centres of Europe, and in Brussels. Namely, there is again no provision "in line with" or "with the consent of the Serbian government". At the end of the line, it is a big question of the purpose of such a representation at the moment of Vojvodina, when Serbia has its mission to the EU, has an embassy in Brussels. Why now and in Brussels, Vojvodina would have representation, which is a matter of rationality. It is more important this moment that it cannot establish representations without the consent of the Serbian government. Then, in Article 4 of this Law, strictly following the Statute of Vojvodina, the territory and symbols of the Vojvodina are determined, the capital of Vojvodina is determined in the way that this was originally done by the Statute of Vojvodina. It sets the territory of Vojvodina in one defensive sense and determines how it self-defense through a referendum, in which the citizens of Vojvodina take part. Serbia's constitution makes it clear that autonomous provinces can change their territories, it speaks in plural, and then prescribes a way, and that is a referendum under the autonomous province under the law. There is no provision here for this referendum on the defence of Vojvodina's territory under the law of Serbia. Then, in Article 5, where the relationship between the republican and the provinceal authorities is mentioned, you have one provision in Section 3, where so-called. a permanent mixed commission. It has one specific task to do its job for the legitimate, successful and uninterrupted performance of the work of the Duchy of Vojvodina. Practically, this permanent mixed commission is one body, where at a horizontal level, a partner, is discussing the conduct of Vojvodina's jurisdiction and it has the capacity to decide in the final line on jurisdiction between Serbia and Vojvodina. Therefore, in one quasi-political way, it replaces the judicial and administrative authorities to decide on the dispute. At the very end of the line, the institute of the mixed permanent commission reminds itself terribly of that system of social bargaining and self-government that existed in the Brion Self-Government Yugoslavia and thus the authorities of Serbia, Vojvodina and Kosovo had the right to co-ordinate their relations and discuss their respective responsibilities. Then, Article 6 of this law rewritten the provisions of the Vojvodina Statute, it is said practically about the immunity of the MPs of the Vojvodina and the government of Vojvodina. In fact, the constitution determines only the immunity of Serbian Parliamentarians and government members and other republican officials, but does not allow other levels of government to give themselves such rights. Members of the 7th and 8th rewritten members of the Statute on the property of Vojvodina, it is said, under the law, the property of Vojvodina will be determined, and then in the second position of Article 7, when the property is actually prejudged by the resolution of that law and it is said that Vojvodina has all the things they use in its property, owned by the authorities of Vojvodina and the enterprises and institutions established by the Vojvodina authorities. It is absolutely unnecessary to determine the property of the Vojvodina. The financing of the authorities of Vojvodina is not literally prescribed, but this law does not actually correct that unconstitutional member of the Vojvodina Statute which determines the type of income that Vojvodina should have to finance its responsibilities, etc. There are many anti-constitutional provisions in this law, which are in great agreement with the Statute of Vojvodina. Of course, the most important part is this one about determining jurisdiction. This is the part of Article 10 to Article 84 of the Law establishing jurisdiction. There was also one big mistake, at least. These powers are, as is said here, divided into original and shared competences, but the number of entrusted competences you will find in this article. 10 to 84 is extremely large. Serbia's two-seat constitution discusses the trusty powers of Serbia's central authorities, in Articles 137 and 178. In Article 178, it refers precisely to an autonomous province and says that certain responsibilities can be entrusted, as said in Article 137 - certain responsibilities can be entrusted to the lower authorities. If you count the competencies that are entrusted in this law, you will find at least a hundred responsibilities. There is indeed a broken letter and spirit of the Constitution and its provisions on trusted powers to lower authorities. In addition, this law directly violates Serbia's constitution when it imposes or smuggles jurisdiction into the fields of science and technological development of Vojvodina. In Article 183, there is no area listed as the area of authority of the Vojvodina, and in this law the Constitution violates so much that these competences in the field of science and technology are, in fact, not placed as trusted responsibilities but as exceptional responsibilities. You won't find them in the Constitution, but you will find them in this law as original jurisdiction, because it doesn't say down there that jurisdiction is entrusted. Finally, there are a number of members about so-called. The competencies in other areas that we will be able to discuss more when we speak tomorrow about the Statute of the Vojvodina. I want to conclude that this and this law and the statute of this kind were needed by the ruling structure in Serbia, because for their ruling appetites, Serbia as defined by the Constitution is not enough, it is too narrow and too small, it needs to create a state in the country to further expand these appetites (President: 20 minutes). ) The result is this very separatist law based on separatist...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31310	Does the word wish for MP Sasa Milenic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31311	It's strange that you still have the will to speak when no one is paying attention to you anymore. It's not an inscription on the National Assembly of the RS dome. The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Mr. President, Vice-President and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this sentence is actually one provocation or insult that triggers a remarkable Shakespeare plot. This plot takes place through the burning of a war hero, a brave knight, and his relations, prominently verbal, with one noble, emancipated, autonomous lady, which already seems to be a sort of allegory of this duchy-Serbian quasicontraversy, but which continues further, because it all ends with wedding and wedding, to the title that reads – a lot of shouting about nothing. A lot of shouting about nothing, if we don't count on what could possibly be happening in invisible, closed social circles, because it remains perfectly unclear what it is, in fact, that the bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina would not be expected, implies that the Vojvodina belongs, and that it belongs, except perhaps from some points of view, as far as it can be heard, to the autonomy itself, which is nevertheless in Vojvodina not only of the grandmother, but also of the Constitution guaranteed. What, for example, could be the real cause of such a controversy? Is the proportion of the original and trusted transactions in established responsibilities? It is actually an endless topic of ad infinitum, which will be managed as long as there is any form of local self-government, autonomy, regionalisation in the Republic of Serbia, lived on many summers. Is that the question of the main work? "I think so," to express myself in the adolescent styleist of modern language malnutrition, because it is perfectly clear that, no matter how we define Novi Sad, in the text of the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, it is naturally, in fact, simply the capital of Vojvodina. So what's it really about? This extra-institutional debate that she was motivated by? What's the whole problem, if there's a problem, and I call it quasicontraversy, and it's made? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the opinion of my party together for the Forest, as well as our coalition partner G 17 plus, therefore the integral position of the G 17 Plus Group is that it is obvious that there was in this public debate an excess of meaning, which the documents in question, neither this bill nor the text of the statutes were able to express. This excess meaning actually reflects an open horizon of increased civic expectations of our public, but unfortunately its limitations and fears. When I talk about the horizon of increased expectations, it is quite clear that through this topic the ambitions of Serbia progressing faster, the ambitions of warring weights and restrictions in the advancement of this society, that there was also the ambition to modernise Serbia, liberalise, above all the ambitions for Serbia to enter a clear, open process of decentralisation and regionalisation. This political tendency is actually the only real freeing trend of our society today. But I mentioned that from our point of view our public is also burdened by both limitations and fears. Indeed, the book that includes Serbian history, culture, national identity, has many pages written in gold letters and titles, but unfortunately there are also those pages that are not exactly written in gold letters. On these sides there is also some of the topos, formations, models, structure of opinion which is still alive today, which reflects one negative, iduk, Javaljska heritage. It forms the perspective of the budzak, which was the vasda's negation of the world. From the budjak, the world is always out there. From the Budzaklia perspective, he's by definition, precanic. From the Budzaklic perspective, where in the distance all colors become pale, in the end the world always looks white world. This Budzaklic perspective is something that burdens our culture, our way of political opinion and decision-making today. Today, first and foremost here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it should be shown to cut off the strategy of encouraging such a way of thinking, by suppressing the public into this kind of regression, to make a clear decision of the democratic political forces of Serbia - that the interference in the development of this society is made by its past, and to define exactly what are open perspectives. That's north of Serbia, Vojvodina, and history allows us to add the forest to it right now, which is now tangible, represents and symbolizes it. What is Vojvodina's second than the historical continuity of fighting both this people and this culture for political organisation, for integration, international recognition, emancipation, self-determination? Vojvodina and Shumadi actually form the unique cultural and historical space of the Serbian Podunovre, where a modern Serbian state was created. It is true that in Šumadija, in Kragujevac, Karadjordje and Milos, the Serbian revolution has armed its foundations, but Davidovic comes across the river to write constitutions. Joakim Vujic comes to find people and country and establish the First Serbian Theatre in a forest refugee, he says. Steria comes to build in Lice Kragujevac a truly first institution of higher education in the Serbs. Joseph Schlezinger comes to Kragujevac to start the first modern European music and music scene in the Theatre in Serbs. Shumadija and Vojvodina have created a modern Serbian state, and that is the heart of Serbia. To accuse that space of destructive, anti-state tendencies means nothing more than to show complete absence of knowledge, hearing about the historical corridor of the nation and the society to which we belong. What's the point of this judgment and what I'm particularly appealing to is the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that over the past years we've been listening to the subject of a state reason. Serbia has deafened its ears for a state reason. There is this state military, police, services, administrations to care for the state's cause, and democratically elected politicians, instead of courting the first ones, should once stand aside from the civil cause, with courage that this reason, if necessary, and confront if necessary with the logic of the state's cause. (President: Bell. ) By representing the logic of the state reason for decades behind us, we have buried three countries below us. Is this one, finally ours, to be burdened with this subject, with the state-class traditions of so-called. a state reason or we need to break into the real sense, unexpected to the end in this bill -- that increased expectations in the Vojvodina initiative. The forest is particularly supportive of this increased expectation. Not because it wants asymmetry in Serbia, or some privilege for Vojvodina, but because it believes that the conditions for universalisation and disclosure of these views on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia have matured. Serbia should openly enter the political regionalisation process in order to make progress and indeed integrate into the community of enlightened peoples of Europe today. If we don't understand it today, we're really at risk of falling under the charge that stands in line - it's really weird that you still want to talk when no one pays any more attention to you. This will indeed apply to the Serbian parliament if it does not see the end of a controversy in this law, but rather, the beginning of a genuine fight for regionalisation and decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, and with such an increased expectation, together for the Forest and G 17 plus, i.e. the integral parliamentary group G 17 plus will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31312	Before we finish the morning session, two notices. Today, on the basis of Article 85, I will inform the National Assembly, we will work after 1800 hours, by discussing a topic that will be on the agenda at that time. A announcement from the Serbian Radio Television that the National Assembly's session is in direct transmission today until 20.00 p.m. I'm setting a break now. We continue work this afternoon at 15.00 hours. The first registered speaker, or authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, is MP Aleksandar Martinovic. [[After break – 15:00]] We're continuing our work. Before we begin the work, the announcement that the authorised representative of the parliamentary group is Advanced Serbian National MP Zoran Masic. Does the word want the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, MP Aleksandar Martinovic? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the acquisition of historical opportunities wanted to discuss this famous bill establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina today, on 24 November 2009. On this day exactly 91 years ago, the Assembly of National Councils from Srem, 1918, for the christening glory of many Serbs of St. Stefan Decanski, made a historic decision on the accession of Srema to Serbia. The same decision, on November 25th, so the next day, was made by the Grand National Assembly of Serbs, Bunjevac and other Slovenians in Novi Sad about Banat, Baka and Baranja joining the Kingdom of Serbia. Ninety-one years later, on this very day, the ruling coalition is about to take a historic step back, namely to annul decisions from Srema, or decisions from Banat, Baka and Baranja on the accession of the entire territory of Vojvodina to Serbia. These days, we could hear a whole series of arguments from the ruling coalition's representatives about why a bill like this should be passed. What falls into the eyes, we talked about in the afternoon section of the debate, referring to the discussion of colleagues from the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, which is that the same parties who voted in the Vojvodina Assembly a year ago for the constitutional proposal of the statutes later partially revised their position and then began to say that the proposal for the statutes was the same as it was adopted in October 2008, the opposite of the Constitution and that it should be brought into line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's just amazing that the same political parties vote in two different ways. In October 2008, it was reportedly clean. There was no problem. We in the U.S.S. were supposed to scare the people. Everything adopted in the Vojvodina Assembly that October 2008 was in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If everything had been in line with the RS Constitution, I doubt the ruling coalition would have hesitated for a year to put an AP Vojvodina Statute in the procedure. It is simply amazing that the parties voting in favour of the Vojvodina Statute later support amendments to the same draft statute. Boris Tadic should have said, at a session of the DS General Committee, that it is not normal for a new state to be created from Belgrade for seven minutes, so that the Serbian government better approaches the draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, namely that representatives of ruling parties in the Vojvodina Assembly submit or vote for amendments to the draft statutes already adopted. Why are we talking today about a bill establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? Because this bill of law in a political sense is a fig leaf that needs to hide the fact that something unrecorded happened in the Vojvodina Assembly a year ago, that the parties leading this country vote for an act that is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They're admitting it today on their own. Some, however, willingly, some reluctantly, some don't even want to admit it. For example, you today had a statement in the Serbian Parliament, the head of the SPS parliamentary group, that it was a good thing we didn't go that way leading to secession, and we corrected it by submitting amendments to the text of the statutes that we voted for a year ago. Yesterday you had a statement from a minister sitting here, a minister of state administration and a local self-government, who says there is nothing to dispute with the statute, what was adopted in the Vojvodina Assembly in October 2008, everything is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and there is no problem. Now -- wolf sieves and goats on the count. It is that a year ago we supported something that is contrary to the Constitution, but here we have corrected it. Now all of Serbia becomes one theatre of absurdity. Now the government within itself is creating an opposition, now Boris Tadic says -- it's a good thing you have a statute like this, imagine what it would have been like to go through all of Cank's ideas, but here I have saved Serbia's unity. It now turns out that in that ruling coalition you have parties that are the government in the right sense of that word and you have parties that are acting as opposition within the government. Now LSV is an opposition within the government, now the SPS is a patriotic part of otherwise non-patriotic government -- we saved Serbia's unity with our six amendments, and a year ago we voted for the same statute, which we today say could have taken Serbia on a road without going back. So, it is clear to all, it is clear to the representatives of the ruling coalition, it is clear absolutely to all citizens of Serbia, that the proposal for the Vojvodina Statute, as adopted a year ago, is, in most of its provisions, the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In order for the government not to admit it directly, because it would be found in an unguarded grape, then it came to its senses and said – we will not now adopt the bill of statutes in the Serbian Parliament, but rather have to pass a law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, so when we adopt it, then we will adopt the statute. Then you had a real circus at the Vojvodina Assembly. The draft statute, which has been voted and no longer can be changed, agrees with something called the bill. It's just amazing. You're agreeing to something that's a suggestion with something else that's also a suggestion. The question arises – how can you agree on something that has come out of the Assembly, the procedure has been completed, the vote has been voted upon? What legal-technical corrections, what language editings? This is also directly contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Vojvodina Assembly and directly contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic today, as prime minister, at least formal, if not essentially, of this government, actually read what he writes in a very vague way in the light of the bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. If you listened carefully to Mr. Cvetkovic's diction, you could see that he was talking about autonomous provinces, therefore, in the plural. I listened to him very carefully. He talked a little bit about the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, then changed his style. The speech concluded that the law applies to autonomous provinces. Autonomous provinces will be able to do this, autonomous provinces will be able to do that. The law applies to only one autonomous province. Now the question is raised here -- is this law, tomorrow, the day after you vote it, a projection of some future political reality in Serbia? Does this mean that we will turn the rest of Serbia into some autonomous provinces? What's going to happen to our country if ideas like this go crazy? Serbia's government for this bill of law, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, has no basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's constitution absolutely does not say in any single place that it is the obligation of the National Assembly to adopt some law establishing the jurisdiction of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. There is no such thing in the Constitution of Serbia. In the Constitution of Serbia, there is the following, only that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, through a series of laws, will define what issues are of regional importance in certain areas of social life. But with a series of laws, on hunting, on fishing, on agriculture, and so on. You've taken one completely opposite path. By one law, you are, in fact, derogating a whole series of laws that apply in the Republic of Serbia. If you don't think the SRS says that, I'll read to you what one respected professor of one of Serbia's law schools says, of course I won't give him a name, that man wouldn't have a problem tomorrow, I'm saying this without consulting him. It's just, it's in his textbook. He looks back at the so-called. Omnibus Law 2002. As Mr Branko Ruzic told us, essentially, between this law and this bill, there is no difference, so what was said about Omnibus Law can be absolutely, by analogy, applied to this bill. So here's what the professor of law school, who's not a member of the SRS, says about what the legal validity of what you're doing is. ''Normally-legally observed, the validity of such a procedure is problematic. The amendments and additions to the laws are subject to specific laws in the relevant area, so that amendments and additions to the republican laws in the fields of culture, education, health and so on were required to comply with the relevant laws on amendments and additions, not with one regulation. ''Moreover, in the law establishing certain competences of the autonomous province, it does not say that the provisions of any law are being amended, which means that this regulation is designed as one lex specialis, compared to many general laws in certain areas. This means that it came from the assumption of the relationship between the general and the special law, under which the provisions of the special law dictate the provisions of the general law, lex specialis derogat legi generals. However, the authors of this regulation have forgotten, and you are forgetting today, that this rule applies only to regulations in the same area, not to have one regulation on determining jurisdiction be a special law for many material and legal regulations. Such a normative and legal procedure is unrecorded in the parliamentary practice of modern countries. It is a legal assessment, an expert, theoretical assessment of what you are planning to do today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So you absolutely violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic tried, in one quite, let me use one sentence of Slobodan Jovanovic, don't be offended, but it really does stand, in a semi-mutual way to explain to us what some of the new powers of the AP Vojvodina are now. Then he read from the bill, he says – some original and trusted competences. Serbia's government served an unprecedented fraud when it spoke of a bill on so-called law. Trusted business. She referred to only one member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 178, if I am not mistaken, which she says – the Republic of Serbia can legally trust autonomous provinces and units of local self-government with certain issues in its jurisdiction, but she has completely failed to keep a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which specifically explains what public powers are involved. This is Article 137. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which this government hides like a snake's foot. Namely, Article 137. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is situated in that head of the Constitution that speaks of the state administration. So, Article 136 says - the position of the state administration, and Article 137, which is attached to this member, says - trust in public authority and public service. What's coming out of this? What is written in Article 137 – in the interest of a more efficient and rational exercise of the rights and obligations of citizens and meeting their need for direct interest in life and work, the law can entrust certain tasks from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia to the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government. What jobs, ladies and gentlemen? The affairs of the state administration. What are the affairs of the state administration? You're sitting here, Minister of State. The State Administration Act defines what the affairs of the state administration are. Right, Mr. Markovic? Bringing in administrative acts, performing administrative oversight, issuing public documents. What does that have to do with what's written in this bill? What kind of establishment? What kind of founding rights? What normative regulation of certain areas? What duke's Academy of Science and Arts? What diplomatic representations? That's not there, that's what you made up. Because you interpret the Constitution one way. Use only those parts of the Constitution that are partly yours. What directly prevents you from doing what you're doing, you're not quoting it. It is scandalous that the Serbian government, in the light of the bill, hides this member of the Constitution, which says -- can be entrusted with the public authority of the Republic of Serbia, but only when it comes to the affairs of the state administration, nothing more. You're hiding it. Practically, the AP Vojvodina, one, therefore, to the autonomous province of Serbia, practically transfer the entire state power. You didn't just transfer power when it comes to military, police and monetary policy. Everything else, and even indirect and judicial authority, has been transferred to the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which directly suspends the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says -- the Republic of Serbia can trust public authorities, but only when it comes to state administration affairs. The bill of law, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, is normative-technically pointless. You say – it is entrusted to the autonomous province to establish some institutions. Be careful, it says – an autonomous province is establishing schools, preschools, colleges, etc., establishing something that has already been established. He says – The AP Vojvodina founded the Public Enterprise "National Park" Fruska Gora, and this company has been in existence for decades. What nonsense. You're starting something that already exists. These days, there is a thesis that is represented by these alleged opposition circles within the ruling coalition, which is that Serbia has taken something from Vojvodina, as -- we have done something in Vojvodina, and these evil Serbians have taken it away from us. Right, Mr. Canak? Now I'm going to give you an example and show you how wrong you are. Here, Mr. Svetozar Chiplic will probably agree with me, because it is simply a historical fact. Mr. Canak, the Law School in New Sad, do you know who founded it? The National Assembly of the National Republic of Serbia, 1955, by law adopted in the National Assembly of the then National Republic of Serbia. The National Republic of Serbia provided funds for the establishment of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, provided money, secured land, built an facility, brought professors in, as there were no professors in Novi Sad, who actually hit the foundations of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad. This is just one example. You have as many examples as you want. Nothing Serbia has taken from anyone. That thesis, Mr. Canak, that you represent heartily from day to day, is not your thesis. This is the thesis of a Croatian economic theorist named Rudolf Bicanic, who wrote a book called "The Economic Background of Croatian Issues" in 1938, a year before the formation of Banovina of Croatia. The preface for the book was written by Croatian peasant party leader Vlatko Maček. There, the respected professor tried to prove by figures that Banovina Croatia must be formed because Serbians allegedly rob Croatia. The obstacle to the robbery is the alleged formation of Banovina Croatia. Now who can read the messages in history, who can read the signs of the time we live in, it's perfectly clear that this is about an identical scenario. Citizens living in Vojvodina should be told -- you will live better when Vojvodina becomes a state in the country. Ask the citizens who live in Vojvodina, I do not deliberately say "citizens of Vojvodina", because it is a dangerous thesis, there is Mr Svetozar Ciplic, a citizen is another term for the word "citizen", when the rights of man and citizen are said to be the rights of man and citizen of a particular country. Vojvodina is not a state, you keep talking - citizens of Vojvodina and citizens of Serbia, when it is said a citizen is thought of as a citizen, as far as I know, Vojvodina is not yet a state. So it's quite clear that the same scenario is repeated. Ask the citizens who live in Vojvodina what they need and everyone will tell you that they need a job, they need a country that will ensure that they can educate their children, that they can treat their sick parents. You haven't heard from any citizen who lives in Vojvodina - we need a law on determining the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, no, we need a legal state, we need institutions, we need a state where there will be no crime and corruption. Since this government cannot provide it because it is corrupt to the throat, Mr Dragan Todorovic today confirmed it to you, then to the citizens who live in Vojvodina he throws dust in the eyes and says -- here, the citizens who live in Vojvodina, you will live better, but you have to achieve a high degree of autonomy compared to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31315	The time at your disposal has been used. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31316	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning we all came to this session and noticed here the entire government that lined up, the President of Parliament, dressed up, with new hairstyles, smiling, in the mood. Members of the ruling coalition welcomed you with great applause, scanned, applauded, because today a law is passed that is extremely harmful to Serbia and Vojvodina, a law that is simply a lack of hope for the ruling coalition, which has promised towers and cities to the people of Vojvodina in the election campaign, and could do nothing. And as some of the previous political options that they offered, so they said, you'll get the flag, you'll get the coat of arms, you'll get these now -- you'll get the Duke's statutes, we'll give you jurisdiction, you'll get your government. How will a peasant live in Vojvodina? Also, with the price of 8 dinar wheat, with the price of corn that is cheapest in the last 20 years, with the price of meat that no one will ever have, with a destroyed stock, with an economy that does not exist, with the inability to eat and survive. But that's why they're going to get the Academy of Science of Vojvodina, which is extremely important. Of course, that's why they're going to get thousands of new jobs where the parties are going to put their listeners in, and they're going to settle down, and that's the way it's going to be. Today I expected in the opening presentation of the Prime Minister's exposé, to come out to defend this law, to convince us, to say why it is necessary to adopt such a statute of the Vojvodina, to transfer jurisdiction, etc. But the prime minister came in as Santa Claus, he got all worked up, he just smiled, he talked for three minutes. He gave a little opening statement and he wiped out a man, he's got a lot of work to do, and he doesn't know that Serbia is collapsing here today in this House. Today in this House there are thousands of problems that will arise from all this. I listened to one unfortunate Shumadin who talked and talked here, I don't know what the man was saying, everyone laughed, I didn't hear anything, I quoted some people, all of them full of himself, he smiled, he mounted his hair, he doesn't know what the poor Shumadian got when they divided it into three regions now. This government of ours, which is too big and too happy to transfer jurisdiction in the territory of Vojvodina to another government to choose, is too happy that it has passed on all its powers to the city of Belgrade, is not at all in charge of the city of Belgrade. I don't know where you think that government is. Where do you think you rule? They're completely autonomous in Belgrade. You see, Gilas does what he wants, doesn't treat you like you exist at all. In Vojvodina, you'll get the same thing now, but where do you think you're running the power with so much bolument as you have? Who's gonna pay for it and how and in what way? Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, put your finger on your forehead and think fatly about you from the ruling coalition. Don't think you'll run away from the responsibility of bringing everything here and everything and bringing this country into big trouble, the company said on the outside, the EU. Well, neither will the EU, they want to rob you as much as they can, and then they'll put you away because they see you're not for anything. You do your own business, your own intrigues and all kinds of nonsense. Do you believe, gentlemen, in this year 70% of Serbian investment and credit lines went to Vojvodina? What more do you want? You'll get justice, it says here clearly that you'll be setting up courts, that you'll be doing whatever you want in Vojvodina. The police and the military, anyway, I don't know, the Sutanovac now something in the south, some base, it's a big base, a bomb thing, etc., and you're looking at something, you're measuring us, you're scrambling, and you're thinking about how it would be for you to get rid of that opposition, as one MP put it in a disorientation -- say what you want, no one listens to you, we do our job. We'll see how long you do your job, gentlemen. You do whatever you want, but you won't be long. This doesn't all work out. You let the ghost out of that Pandora box again. Gentlemen, you've begun to pass autonomous laws here, and some have debated that they've crushed the autonomists and beaten them to their feet, and they've been with you in the government, and you've said that you've beaten one of the other parts of the government to their feet and you've taught them your senses, because you've simply prevented separatism and the autonomists from putting them back where they belong. You put on a little makeup and admitted that there were autonomists sitting in your government. You admitted that people who don't think well of Serbia are sitting and you said that you beat them up with some cosmetics, but the essence remained the same. We are now wondering how you, according to the Constitution, will be the 7% of the total budget that Vojvodina will have and plus now to pay for this expensive government to which you transfer competences from the Republic of Serbia's budget. You keep talking about how you from Vojvodina are supporting Serbia, filling the budget 60%, etc. It is true that you are charging the budget, but with fuel excises, and the market is Serbia. Fuel excises, because these excises, both these companies and NIS are located in Vojvodina. And it's true, don't fill it with corn, wheat and sugar tails. You've watered it all. It doesn't exist, and when you don't know anything now to solve it wisely, you are now putting on a new thesis -- we are defending Vojvodina from Serbia, not giving our money as the individual says. That's why Serbia has now raised its loans, because you gentlemen have destroyed, the autonomists have destroyed the concession and have now begun with the funds of the Republic of Serbia, which is in charge, to build the highway, and now they're going to build the roads of Serbia and charge the tolls, and we're going to pay both the New Sad loops, and the highway, and the Beška Bridge, and the bridge on the Raca, and the reconstruction of the highway to Croatia and the Banat highway. All these loans were raised by the Republic of Serbia, and for the settlement of rivers, not to count any more, and for Vršac the path made by the credit line. Of course, now you're gonna charge and you're gonna say we don't give our money, and you Serbian gentlemen die down there, you get hurt, and we charge toll. You will do as you intend. You will take public enterprises, destroy, do as you intend, hire your party people and completely break one system that worked. This Serbia, unfortunate, has been used by individuals who have no good intentions and have also brought Vojvodina citizens into a very difficult situation, who have been promised towers and cities in the elections, promised to start production. You promised everything in Verbas, so why don't you do it now? Where are your machines in Worbas, gentlemen? Where did you get the machines that you took around the election, win, and now what? Now you've moved everything to the Leader. You think you'll make residents here, too. You won't. The people broke in, and there's nothing to do with it. Therefore, this is all a hollow story, and you government gentlemen will be responsible for all this, and you gentlemen from the ruling coalition cannot escape the responsibility of what you've done and what you're doing. You can't get away from the Information Act that you brought. You can't get away from all this. We are for the autonomy of the Vojvodina, but not for the state. What do you need the judiciary for? What are you going to decide? Would you like your dishes? So you will mount the processes to be in Novi Sad, where your courts will judge, as you have set up one trial against me to conduct a dispute in Novi Sad, where the court is not in charge at all. You'll do what comes to mind. Gentlemen of the government, you will answer. I'm very sorry Mr. Cvetkovic isn't here today. He might have some business with Cece with these agencies. There's a man in charge. And Djelic, they have a big business. They come by here sometimes in the morning when they have nothing to do, as it was on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. No one from the government came. You don't care if there's a battle going on over there whether this is constitutional or not. You didn't even come. You don't care about that. So, you come from some way to explain some of your stories. Just to remind you, gentlemen who were discussing this morning, I remember perfectly when the same people sitting here in parliament were singing in part a few years ago when your leader was alive, God rest his soul, that old song -- red, blue and white again is whole. You've been putting posters together, and you've won the election for that story of yours. What did you do now? The same people - they no longer need them. Now they're gonna rip the pieces off, make their own fairies out there where they're gonna reign, do whatever they want. How about you leave us Sasha Dragina? Take him, too. I don't know what Serbia, who destroyed Shumadi, Pomoravalje, will do. He destroyed southern Serbia. He destroyed agriculture in Serbia. The kilo of apples is three dinars, gentlemen. Vishnya, it's all gone. Take Vučje, Poreč, 600 acres of fruit fell this year and that's his score. Now you're thinking of giving it to us. Dulic, let us take care of the ecologicals. We can't solve it, so you'll bring him to us, let us take care of us, and transfer jurisdiction to Vojvodina to another minister or to some third or fourth. That's enough of that nonsense. Don't embarrass yourself. Pull this bill, so come on, sit down with the opposition and everyone here to make a deal, to do something fair and fair. Let Vojvodina have autonomy. We don't mind it being stronger, getting better. Let's solve the issues of agriculture, infrastructure, solve the issue of firms that haven't worked for years. To solve a lot of issues that are current, how these people survive. Now you're offering the Academy of Science of Vojvodina, it's going to mean a lot to the people who live there. He'll live much better. You're offering them a number of other institutions they're going to get. You're offering them one expensive state in the state with two governments. Imagine the news when Mirko Cvetkovic, Serbian Prime Minister and Prime Minister Vojvodina meet in the capital of Vojvodina, Novi Sad. Are you out of your mind? Can a normal mind imagine that in one state? Can a normal man understand that you share and make limits between the Serb population, no matter where they live? You want the Danube and Sava to be the boundaries of once again, and for that, thousands of gallons of blood spread across Serbia to return to normal. You see how others look alike. They're just pushing you. Push, so they pushed you to enter the Eulex, to build bases in Kosovo. They pushed you to make a corridor to those bases, and Serbia should die. Let him do whatever he wants. Let it be in the mud, in the mire, let the Serbian peasant perish, let all businesses fail. The Italian ordered you - I won't come to Kragujevac without a highway, and you run, you work day and night, and he hasn't invested a penny on the contract he signed with you. And they've all made you and they're all laughing at you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition. Everyone laughs at you as you cheaply ingest this pain and poverty, which is blood-produced here in Serbia, as you share it, squirm. Here's the other day. How about a New Market? You got it. How about a Priboj? You got it. How about Nova Varosh? Oh, yeah, he can't. Here's Nova Varosh, and Zlatibor, we'll get to Jelica. Anything you can do, just stay in power, get support, save that handful of power and come here to fuck and threaten us, to do whatever you want. That's how you behave, gentlemen of the government. Who could have gotten the credit? Which companies did you run? When did you come here to talk seriously about some economic problems? You're saying that 700,000 people are starving in Serbia. You found that martyr who transferred jurisdiction to Boris Tadic's cabinet. That's what you did outside of us. You did it yourself. More power in power has Boris Tadic's cabinet than the entire government. No one's asking you anything. He sends you here to sit and smile, and he knows where politics is being made, where decisions are being made, where decisions are being made, and you can't get out of that circle. As our people say, "You gave me not to say what to the devil, so now watch where you will go." It's a long way from 2014, the EU you're talking about right now. Far away, gentlemen. It should be reached by 2014. It's supposed to come to that year. Five years is a lot, and you've been here for two years. Almost two construction seasons have gone the way you're here. Therefore, do not think that this will go lightly. You're used to applauding, bringing, voting. You're making fun of this. You're making historic decisions for this country today, and you're acting like you've come to some picnic here to have some fun, spend, to welcome your ministers, your prime minister, to outlast each other, and to end all of this, as you did in the past months, to end the very important decisions that cost Serbia. You have thus brought unilateral respect for the agreement with the EU, which has completely destroyed the Serbian village, agriculture and the Serbian economy, which has left thousands out of work. You smiled the same way, ironed -- we've got most, we'll vote. Go ahead, just push. So we'll see what happens. You're the only one who has jurisdiction, but I repeat, you are responsible to this people in Serbia. Of course, who sits in the Vojvodina Assembly, which parties? Can't you say that Boyan Pajtic beat Boris Tadic and put his rhythm and his ideas and all that he wanted? So, right now, you, in order to be in power, you are sitting and listening -- what are you going to get from Novi Sad, what are you going to get from Pazar, what you need to accept from Kragujevac and some cities, just to stay for a little while longer, a few more months, in order to get some sleep, spread out, strengthen. You see, people, I apologize to the Minister of Education, these others, you can't come in, we need to expand the door a little bit longer. We must, this Minister of Telecommunications, when he swings here, I barely stay on my feet. You can't do that, gentlemen. He can't. Work a little. Go after Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31317	People's MP, I ask that you present yourself within 30 seconds of what you have, honor and disqualify people and do not interpret them as the right to a free word. Disqualify people based on any quality is forbidden by law. I warn you, although your performance in the qualification of members of the government is such that you do not leave me any space other than the expression of measures, but in the spirit of parliamentaryism I do ask you to behave for 30 seconds, as far as you can, without discrimination which is interpreted as freedom of speech, except it is rude. Please sign in and speak for another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31318	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. You rock, we'll wait a little longer. We'll wait a little longer. Don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31319	People's messenger, however colorful the language you use is, for your sake, I give you the first warning. Thank you. The border of wit stops where the obvious will begins to offend the members of the government based on one quality that has nothing to do with government work. Thank you. I ask MP Markicevic not to throw it away. I thank the People's Parliament, you've used your 20 minutes. The word has the People's MP Sasa Milenić, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31320	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, is replicating an insult note that is not below the level of controversy. I replicate to Mr Martinovic, who, as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, said, was paraphrasing - that what if the adoption of this law is only a prelude to the adoption of laws on regions, with a status similar to this duchy autonomy, and where would it take Serbia to implement such foolish ideas? As I said in my discussion that we support an initiative that is in the political life of Vojvodina and the most represented, not favouring the privileges of Vojvodina or any asymmetry, but with the belief that these values can be universalised, disclosed and applied to the overall territory of the Republic of Serbia, I realized that it is an offensive qualification of me, my party and the parliamentary group on behalf of which I speak and apply. Mr. Martinovic, it seems to me that the question you asked should only be turned a little bit significantly. What will happen to Serbia if it does not enter the regionalisation process urgently, if it is given to economic and demographic lyrics that are affected, without political intervention in the direction of regionalisation? The harsh centralisation, which takes place in the script, has at least two consequences that people's MPs have to worry about. We call one a metropolise and the other a depopulation. The metropolisation does not just mean the functional concentration of certain prerogatives in the capital city. It also implies its territorial expansion, which takes place spontaneously, continuously. On the other hand, the depopulation leaves empty border spaces of the Republic of Serbia. The earth is empty nowhere to stay long. Is that how it's weird that certain aspirations, in certain territories...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31321	Three minutes. I thank the People's Messenger, the time for replicas has been used. The word has a folk letter from Nada Kolundji, president of the ZES parliamentary group. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: I want a replica. I didn't mention him. What kind of way is that? I didn't take it in my mouth. People's MP, you don't have the right to a replica. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31322	The Honorable Madam Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the ZES parliamentary group will vote in voting day for the law laying down the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Therefore, the constitutional basis for this law is found in Article 177 which says that issues of republican, regional and local importance are determined by law, as well as by Article 178, which says that the Republic of Serbia can trust autonomous provinces and units of local self-government with certain issues of its jurisdiction. In that sense, there is no dilemma for us whether this law is provided for by the Constitution or not. We interpret these constitutional provisions as our obligation to respect the Constitution to pass this law. The question of what is the subject of today’s debate can be asked based on the discussions that have been discussed so far? Do we today discuss the territorial arrangements of the Republic of Serbia? Are we talking about whether or not we need the autonomy of the Vojvodina? Are we now discussing elements, content, the framework of autonomy, which is yet to be negotiated? I deeply believe that this cannot in any way be the subject of today's debate and that all those who conduct the debate in this way are actually missing the topic. In order for us to discuss what I said earlier, we would actually be having a debate about changes to the Constitution. What we are doing today is applying the Constitution, and we are fundamentally different from how we approach this subject. So this is a debate on autonomy which is a constitutional category whose elements are content and framework set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In my deep confidence, the only correct and politically responsible framework of this debate is limited, on the one hand, to the constitutional limits it provides when the autonomy of the Vojvodina is at stake and, on the other hand, by asking questions ourselves – whether we have incorporated all the content of the autonomy provided by the Constitution into the law of jurisdiction and the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. And if this is a debate on the application of the Constitution, I would like most of all to have us stick to the Constitution, without interpreting it, or to skip the provisions that are unequivocal and which clearly indicate that this is a debate on the application of the Constitution. What does the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia say? Article 12(1) says - state power is limited to citizens' rights to rural autonomy and local self-government. Serbia is defined by the Constitution as a civil state and the holder of sovereignty in the civil state is a citizen. So, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the holder of sovereignty is a citizen, sovereignty comes from citizens – Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. No state body, political organisation, group or individual can claim sovereignty from citizens. Basically, the democratic modern European society, which we stand for, and about it we have differences in relation to some other political parties that believe that the unitary model of the state is something that can survive in the modern world, that the unitary model of the state is more effective, we really believe that the modern democratic, civil state in which the holder of sovereignty is a citizen, not some abstract state or some abstract state institution, implies and involves decentralisation of government. So I just want to keep in mind when we talk about decentralisation that we're talking about decentralisation of government, not state. Therefore, it implies decentralisation of authorities, regionalisation and province autonomy, because these are defined categories by the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia lays down the principles of the sovereignty of citizens and the principle of decentralisation, rationalisation, regionalisation and rural autonomy, and this is the starting point for us in what we are doing today and what we are discussing. The constitution extended the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina with its solutions. At the same time, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the law we are discussing today, the powers of the AP Vojvodina do not contain a single element of statehood. So if we go from neither the Constitution nor this law nor the Statute of the Vojvodina predicting legislative and judicial authority, then that just means that we're talking here about elements of essential autonomy, and we have absolutely no basis to talk about that this is a state in the country or what even more harsh names some here call it. All issues defining the autonomy of the Vojvodina and all acts defining the powers of the AP Vojvodina are in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. So Serbia is passing laws establishing competences. The Republic of Serbia, i.e. this assembly, adopt laws defining all areas in which the Autonomous Province has that competence. What it is is the jurisdiction of an autonomous province is that, under the law passed by the Republic of Serbia, it exercises certain powers which, by this law and statute, or originally belong to or are passed on to them by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What is important to us is that the Constitution has also defined the obligation of the District Assembly to establish a proposal for a statute. What they are contesting here is that I do not think absolutely stands, because the province, with all the processes that we may have objections to, is whether they have run as they should or not, whether there have been any misunderstandings in them that have been removed in walking, but what is important is that the Constitution is fully respected because the Constitution has prescribed that the Autonomous Province Assembly lays down a proposal for a statute that points out to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to which it gives its consent. It has also been defined that the Serbian Parliament adopts a law laying down jurisdiction. I think it is important now that some of the topics that have been opened here as questions about whether this means future secession, I really do not want to compromise at all with those who use this topic in order to bring about fear, to bring unrest among Serbian citizens, to show that there are some who want to break Serbia, therefore, by law and statute is confirmed politically, and constitutional and legal unity of the Republic of Serbia, which is very important to us, and none of these acts contains any elements that would question this. So when someone here asks a question about how it is possible that all these powers are given to the AP Vojvodina, then they should return to the Constitution again, to Article 83, which says that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, are sorting out issues of regional importance in the following areas. Then he says, in the area of spatial planning. Let's see how this constitutional jurisdiction defines the jurisdiction law. So the jurisdiction law says - the AP Vojvodina via its authorities in the area of spatial planning and regional development, in accordance with the law. I remind you again, the law is passed by the Republic of Serbia, that is, this assembly. Furthermore, Article 183 states that the autonomous province regulates issues in the area of agriculture in accordance with the law. The law we are discussing today says - the AP Vojvodina via its authorities in the area of agriculture and rural development, in accordance with the law passed by the Republic of Serbia, that is, this assembly. There are just as many areas and competences listed here as this law covers. What is crucial is that all these powers are laid down by the law of the Republic of Serbia, which is passed by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that the province itself determines by the Constitution the bodies and the way in which it exercises the powers entrusted with the Constitution. Of course there's a political question here. So, if we're in constitutional matter, then in my deep conviction, there's nothing that's beyond what the Constitution predicted. So the law follows what the Constitution has prescribed, on the one hand as a commitment, and on the other hand as a right to autonomy. If we talk about a political issue, then we can really open up a debate about it, although this can't be a topic, we can open up a debate on whether it's a matter of autonomy, whether it's a question of regionalisation, whether it's a question of decentralisation of the government's progress in society or not? According to our deep conviction, the issue of decentralisation is basically a democratic issue. So, if a citizen is a carrier of sovereignty, he can transfer his sovereignty to representatives of local authorities, to the AP Vojvodina and to the state. How the citizen will decide on what jurisdiction he will transfer to a certain level, in which he will best exercise his rights, is the sovereign right of a citizen as a carrier of sovereignty, which this constitution speaks unequivocally of. Some may not like the Constitution now when they see what it should look like, perhaps they are sorry to vote for it, perhaps they are sorry that they boasted that this constitution was brought in, but unfortunately for them, the implementation of this constitution is their obligation, such as the obligation of all of us and even those who did not vote for this constitution, even those who ran the campaign against this constitution. And if someone says today that the Constitution isn't good, there are some things we can agree on. We also think that there are solutions in this Constitution that might be better resolved in a happier way, but they are for us, and we are not only ready to fulfil that obligation, we believe that we should fulfil our obligation by fulfilling the full content of what the Constitution gives as a right citizen, local self-government and rural autonomy. We can say this is too much jurisdiction for someone, but then he had to think about it when the Constitution was a topic. Maybe there's too little jurisdiction for some of this, and it probably is. Some believe that in some other countries there are autonomys that have much more jurisdiction, but it can also not be the subject of this debate, because we here speak limited by the Constitution, respecting the limit prescribed by the Constitution, on the one hand, but as far as we are concerned, with the best desire to use everything that the Constitution gives as a capacity for rural autonomy in this law and statute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31323	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has twice sought the right to reply. You have no right to a replica. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Please don't throw it away. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand, Mrs. Comic, a member of 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your task is not to protect MPs of the ruling coalition from SRS MPs. I didn't take Mr. Milenic in my mouth. I don't even know which political party he belongs to. Believe me, since I didn't have a simultaneous translation, I didn't understand the most part of his exposure, and I didn't even know what bill the man was talking about. He has now begun to honor us with something that absolutely neither I nor any MP of the SRS has said. I wasn't talking about depopulation at all. I wasn't talking about metropolization and ometropolisation. I was talking about the fact that the bill to determine the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't care about Mr Milanic's party. I don't know if it's a group of citizens, a political party, an interest group, behind this stands the DS. This isn't a project. It's not a project. It's not a project. It's not a project. It's not a project. The SRS wants to show Serbian citizens that the party, unfortunately, is behind this project, currently running the state. It doesn't occur to me to engage in an argument with people who seem to have completely missed the institution. This is not the Philosophy Society of Serbia, this is the National Assembly. I wasn't talking about Hegel or Kant or Shopenhower. I was talking about the bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Please, Mrs. Comic, I really do respect you deeply, so don't protect the MPs from the MPs of the SRS, if they can't fight for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31325	Two minutes, thank you. People's MP, no injured member of 104, because the MP... Please don't throw away. For the third time, I ask the Members of Parliament not to violate the Rules of Procedure and an explicit ban on throwing away during the presentation of any of the People's MPs. If you do not wish to comply with this provision of the Rules of Procedure, you shall leave me no other option but to apply the obligations and duties laid down in Article 100 and, in turn, to impose criminal measures. So, I like the measure a lot less than you do. Thank you for your cooperation. National MP Sasa Milenić, in no word, if you listened carefully, and from your explanation of the violation of Article 104, it is clear that you have not listened at all to the MP Sasa Milenić and that you have misused the right to receive a word on the basis of article 100, in order to state your position. Please don't do this, because you and I both know there's been a abuse of the right to the word. If MP Sasa Milenic had injured Article 104 at any time of exposure, he would have been warned, and warned. National MP Susana Grubjesic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31326	Of course, MP Sasa Milenic did not hurt any members of the Rules of Procedure. It belongs to the political group and the political party Together for the Forest, it is part of the G17 Group, and you know it very well. I'd be very concerned if you understood him, because his words were not addressed to you. Just as you don't understand him, you don't understand what we're talking about today, decentralisation, regionalization. You don't understand the process, but it's not my problem, it's yours. The fear of the other and the other can only be overcome by arguments in the way that Mr Milenic presented in his discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31327	National MP Sasa Milenić, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31328	It's getting a little too high, so I'm going to make a contribution to economics.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31329	Excuse me, MP, just to announce the instructions under Article 88(2), and you will proceed with your time-consuming. I have given a warning to all the MPs who keep earning and breaking the Rules of Procedure. This is really the last warning that I have the right to apply Article 27 in the first place and to take care of the order that I can give it. I ask all MPs who take their own freedom and the right to earn and violate the Rules of Procedure, to take the notice I am giving very seriously, so the first next violation of such a kind will be punished by giving the first, second, disfellowshipping, or by taking the words and disfellowshipping from the sitting, as I am bound by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please do not disturb the session of the National Assembly. Here you go, MP, 55 seconds will be added to your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31330	Thank you, with an apology. Obviously, there is no problem of misunderstanding. It's not about superfluousness in the verbal course of controversy, it's about ambition to end something that is real, a burning problem for Serbia and Serbia's citizens. The depopulation processes, i.e. metropolisation, are indeed leading to the fact that on the one hand the city of Belgrade, and on the other hand the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo represents entities that show offensive ambitions to power. What if one day at Moravi they meet and they start bordering? Can't you see that Serbia is disappearing in the lack of political instruments for self-organising life in its entire area. It's about that so-called. Serbia must also get its regional political subjectivity in order to meet what are real standards and needs of life in the 21st century. Once a quasi-integrated policy of Serbia with quasi-nationalism of pathetic proportions, we can distract the public about how Serbia is the only solution to all life and national problems as a European cyst. But our real social problem is poor integration and Serbian society must progress, in order for both work and political and communicative integration into its European community of its time, and regionalisation is a political condition. We got along just fine, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31331	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic is seeking a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. The replica based on Article 101, the final position, is the discretionary right of the chairman. Whether someone will receive a replica or not makes a decision by the chairman and that member is not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Any of the other senior presidents or representatives come forward for a word? If not, we move to a section of the session where the word will be given to the MPs in order and reporting the words. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written statement, submitted the following MPs with a regular group of MPs: the LDP parliamentary group, the NS parliamentary group, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the DSS, the G17 Plus parliamentary group, the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, the MEP Group for European Serbia, the SRS parliamentary group. The first to be declared by word, and by order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in principle, to the proposal for a law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, MP Vesna Pesic, followed by MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31332	Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, the debate so far on this law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, in my opinion, shows a rather large confusion here. On the one hand, you have one point of view that he thinks that if the state doesn't hold in its hands all possible functions and is not strictly centralized, that such a state, if any function is dropped out of hand, that it's some kind of treasonous state and that it's some kind of state that has allowed some kind of state to be created in the state. So, such a concept is heard by other parties who have so far exhibited here, and yet perhaps on the other hand there is some idea that now, after Yugoslavia's collapse, Serbia could be some kind of Federation. Now I would quote Zoran Djindjic, who gave a very good one of his visionary ideas. He said -- while Yugoslavia was, Serbs were trying to make Serbia out of it, and now that we have Serbia, we are trying to make Yugoslavia. So what's missing here is a real vision of Serbia today. On the one hand, we have two old ideas that, in my opinion, they kind of fight here. One would be this old centralization, a centralized state, which is practically working today, and the other would be some vision of some union, some associations or some federal states that today's Serbia can't accomplish, but can only have what's predicted, some kind of autonomy, which is roughly imagined like this. All what are state functions in a strict sense of words, which is legislative, executive and judicial authority, it cannot be delegated or decentralised. Jurisdictions can be decentralised or deconcentrated only by those functions which are, in a broader sense, state-owned and practically do not have to be state-owned. For example, when it comes to health care, we have seen that in the United States health care is not a state function, it's a private function. When you read this law, the first thing that falls into your eyes is to be amazed at how much our country is still being targeted. Why are there any functions of state function in the first place? For example, you have cinematography, so when you talk about giving trusted authority, I didn't know cinematography was supposed to be a general government function. We didn't even agree on what some state functions are today in this broader sense of the word, so now you even have a library network, a trusted action given to AP Vojvodina to put on a library network in Vojvodina, and the rest of Serbia doesn't. This will continue to provide a network of libraries and set up a director of Serbia, the state, and this will be given by the AP. The first thing we need to discuss is why are we so ethical? Why does the state have such an unnecessary number of functions, so sometimes you think that, for example, informal education or education of old or adults, it's an authentic function, it can not be trusted, but here, it will work for example. The Duke or someone else. The problem is that no idea of how it should be to edit a state that was practically created, I'm sorry, it may have been before, we know, the Kingdom of Serbia, which was created in 2006. The whole problem about how Serbia should be arranged is the problem of this constitution that was brought in then, which has never been discussed publicly how one state should look, which practically came out by detached Montenegro, and what should be some state order? This controversy here is completely missing the subject because we don't have this vision of this arrangement, nor was it in public debate, even now, when it comes to the statute and this law, we haven't had a public debate about this law, and it is some fundamental law. As long as we have such an out-of-date state, which doesn't put it on the agenda and on public debate such big questions as statutes and like this jurisdiction law, because we got it somewhere under the table, all of this from the Constitution and beyond, it's kicking under the table. What did some parties kick under the table? What did the SPS put in, is the capital or the administrative center? Did he kick this guy, the one, overwrite him, then throw him in? That's about what we get to do in the Serbian Parliament. We didn't have a relevant public debate before, which is why we should now be able to discuss properly how Serbia should be arranged and how the autonomy of Vojvodina should be arranged. We have now formally covered this issue, by saying the Constitution is so plotted that none of the state functions can be decentralised, I can only do these broader functions of hunting, fishing, forestry and that is listed, and the entrusted functions are, as far as I can see, mostly certain supervisory functions, so now these supervisory functions have been transferred to Vojvodina. As someone said, Vojvodina has what it's practically had so far. Nothing special new has been added. These attacks we hear here that a state is being created in the state, that would mean we're a Federation, because they're states. We have one country where there are several other states. But that's not the case here at all because here the AP didn't get any in the narrow sense of state function, but it got these broader ones, from publications to cinematography, culture, sports, etc., more or less what it's had so far. I think we're just about to have a debate about what a modern state-of-the-art arrangement will look like in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31333	Six minutes and 15 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP Zlata Djeric, followed by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31334	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the respected chairman, respected representatives of the government, respected to the public of Serbia, whenever a lot of passion is launched then there is little reason behind it. It was obviously a goal to someone, as they were in time, and many here in parliament remember, when Omnibus was being brought. And that's when the passions got in the way. There's been various shows and performances, even to that guy -- give me back my rags, I don't want to play with you anymore, and yet I'm still playing. Guided by the experience I gained the night I returned from the Serbian parliament after the adoption of the Omnibus, and listening to fellow passengers travelling on the route to Belgrade - Novi Sad - Sombor, I knew I could never, ever, on behalf of the political party, on behalf of the Vojvodina, support such a bill or anything like that. Dukes or citizens of Vojvodina won the Omnibus in 2001. After that, it was darkened, mostly by political elites, if they were at all. We who live in Vojvodina, Serbs and all those who have a past, present and future have become accustomed to the goal of political adventurers who pass through Vojvodina to cloud our drinking water, then go either to history or to another country, and we say a matter of caution after we cut through the water and throw the rot. They're not close to us, and we know what the value of living together is. The dukes are a people who like to run and increase, not to share and reduce, and he well noticed one of the previous speakers when he said that this bill affirms fears and mistrust, and generates fears and mistrust, and that is justified. This is a law designed to move a step away from the omnibus, the possibility of secession, and it does not hide it, and I will do so later by quoting the member of the bill and showing it. So I'm saying that this is a law that is not for citizens, this is something between party and private law that has managed to encourage more than any other division within the ruling party, but also within the legal public in Serbia, which is still the most professional and has not yet given its final word to the political passions to which we are all witnesses. Most of the citizens living in Vojvodina, if someone had asked them, and no one had asked them, no one had given them a relevant public debate, would have a very interesting opinion on the statute and such a bill. You should've heard them, you should've asked them. If someone was already planning to ask them about territory, he had to ask them first about this law and this statute. But according to the famous maneuver of distraction, the public's attention has been drawn to some acute topics that are not unique to the Vojvodinas only to impose a view of the necessity of this very text of law and statutes, which makes claims that stand in mutual and complete contradiction and cancel each other, virtually excluded in application, and thus makes the law null and unbiased in front of some unbiased legal arbitrage. Why do I claim this is party private law? Well, because it primarily concerned the party interests of the current ruling, no matter how specific their specific weight was in the electoral body. It was negotiated between the two congregations, and this was publicly promoted, and that is what makes it semi-private, because we did not understand the criteria for how it could have been between a assembly in Novi Sad and this assembly in parliament to affect the changes in the text of the law, whatever they were called, and they said they were only technical, and then promoted it as their major political successes. I don't see that the correction of technical or interactive error is some major political success, but obviously there's a truth in the middle of it. It is twofold to the end that those who advocate Europe without borders, travel to Europe without visas and passports, want only one border towards Serbia. That's what this law says clearly. Article 4 states this: "The AP Vojvodina territory is the territory of units of local self-government in its geographical areas of Bacak, Banat and Srem, established by law. "Station 2 says: "The territory of the AP Vojvodina cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens, expressed in a referendum, in accordance with the law." So, in the agreement of her citizens, she can change. Does this mean that, with the consent of its citizens, it can change and expand? No, it can only be a rope, which means that these three categories, or three entities you're referring to, Bucka, Banat and Srem, you're probably already seeing some possible boundaries and some possible new trade. He says, "The referendum is important if it was voted by the majority of citizens who have an electoral right and residence in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The decision in the referendum referred to in Article 2 has been made if the majority voted for it by law, or statute, in accordance with the law." When did the people of Vojvodina say this about a possible referendum and territorial declaration? When have you ever felt, you who do not live in Vojvodina, that there is such a mood in Vojvodina, except at the time of Svetozar Miletic, Jasa Tomic and other Serbian tribunals? Then one nonsens, even a language nonsens, one pleonasm which is unacceptable to exist in the provision of the law: "The City of Novi Sad - the main administrative center and the seat of the authority of the AP Vojvodina". That's what he's been up to now. Only if it's a center, then it's a center, there's no plural. It can't be the main center. These are two words that essentially mean the exact same thing, and a language error is known, called pleonasm, and it is corrected everywhere when it appears. In fact, it corrects when it wasn't created on purpose. In this case it was created on purpose, in a desire to tap into some political currents, so we satisfied both or, as the people say, to be honest and the other, and so far, since the world and the century, no one has succeeded and every new attempt has always been tragic over and over again. So, the decentralisation of the government, which, with all its great efforts, is truly more difficult, is an excuse, because asymmetric decentralisation is actually a path to secession, and anyone who still calls for money and saves hides the truth hides the truth, for the sake of their own use and one goal. The Serbian Assembly has eight million citizens and 250 MPs, 32,000 citizens representing each of us. The AP Vojvodina Assembly has 120 MPs to about 2 million citizens, 16,000 voters representing each in the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Which one's more expensive, which one costs this country more? The salaries in Vojvodina, administrative, parliamentary, diaries, pausals, travel expenses were never received by the public, on the conflict of interest also, on the Implementing Council apparatus also, the number of employees, costing also, and as an orderly citizen living in Vojvodina, who regularly pays taxes, I have to ask the question - "are my money too?" "The president proposes to reduce the Serbian parliament to 150, but he never said a single word to the duchy. Who's he setting up a retreat for? Who prepares the reserve state in their country, giving through Article 4, the possibility of a referendum on their territory? In this general spirit of celebrations ruled by the ruling, in the absence of wisdom and pragmatism, visionaryism, this is another effort to bring us into collective amnesia, with the goal of making the material gain that you make through political engagement and further uncontrollably increasing. For all the other goals that are hidden, we'll talk about when we talk about the statute tomorrow. It is that it hastened with this because of the budget, in order to have the necessary majority to vote the budget, that's what my colleague was talking about today, but it is another law problem, which you want to create a maneuver so you don't bring it in. It is precisely the adoption of this law and the statutes at this point that, among other things, the excuse to postpone the adoption of a law on denationalisation, a law which would return property which must be returned and whose adoption is one and key proof that it should go to the EU and the condition to join the EU. You know how much in Vojvodina that kind of property is, and you just want to cloud the water one more time, so that we have another job to do that we have to squeeze it and we have to throw the rot. Please, do the citizens of Vojvodina have the courage, the willingness and the desire to pay such an expensive price for your rule? I really don't believe it, but that's what the nearest future will show for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31335	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, followed by MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31336	Dear colleagues, the policy led by the SPS is very simple and understandable for everyone: autonomy - yes, state - no. I'll feel sorry for those who don't understand. I will remind you that the bill and statutes of the AP Vojvodina are the result of a consensus adopted by the RS Constitution, and I must tell you, at least by the numbered, transferred or original jurisdiction, I am not a finder in the Constitution that doesn't say. Today some of these parties respect the SPS of different roles. I'll just say two things. Remember 1978 and the anti-autonomic revolution. We're hardly a party to which you can honor what you said. As for political consistency or inconsistency, it was clear from the beginning that this issue should not be resolved in the Vojvodina parliament, which is why we voted for it to come to Serbia's parliament where it belongs. Because if we had further debated within what is said to be the political force in Vojvodina, we would have had one debate that further destabilised Serbia and was politically and marketingly abused, as it is today. I have to tell you, colleagues, that you are in one advantage, and that the public who is watching this gathering is simply disabled. They don't even have the text in front of them, and the public debate that was conducted through the so-called so-called so-called public debate. funds of public information, under the patronage of individual political parties and so on. The lobby group, I'm not talking about the professional public, has given one tone to this debate that it's some kind of disintegration process and stuff. If I were Mr. Canak, and I don't want to be too disdainful of this act, I would say, commenting on the views of the SRS, which they say -- you said, have prevented the change of Serbia's constitution tomorrow, because you cannot change the powers achieved, or the rights achieved. Of the 153 delegated powers, gentlemen, in this statute over 100 are transferred powers, which can be withdrawn at any moment. If anyone here can find traces of executive, judicial and legislative authority, it's an honor. If passing a judicial exam or a state examination is a sign of justice, I don't see it that way. I'll remind you, when the debate began after 2000, of course, of the project of Academy Director Fire, where the National Bank was scheduled, and the President of Vojvodina, and the Government, and direct elections and all sorts of miracles. I don't think, unlike some colleagues, this will be the end of the debate on autonomy and decentralisation in Serbia. On the contrary, for a time political forces and passions will settle down and we will begin to discuss this again, because the Constitution, which we have brought with consensus, allows other autonomys and others, hopefully, not political regions, but economic regions, developmental stories and the real story, which is decentralisation, where power, property and everything else should be close, people, citizens. We can't define ourselves, and we've defined ourselves as a national state, that's okay, but as a civil state by rights. If you want us to respect that, we can't attack some of the things they're writing here. If we give someone autonomy and we don't want to give her any content, then it's the most expensive and most problematic autonomy. She doesn't bring anything, it costs money. If you're talking about autonomy, she must have some content. I repeat, out of 153 of the number of responsibilities, over 100 are so-called. You pass on, you can pull them out at any moment, get angry or not. In a theoretical sense, unlike any other previous projects of this type, something has been introduced that no one here has commented on, or who is the legislator, I mean the government. A national authority supervisory is being introduced. In earlier projects, there was no supervision in the autonomy project. It is now clear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, through its organs, in every segment of transferred jurisdiction, have a supervisory and full right to allow something or not to allow something. Also, in most of what could lead to the rights of some alleged separatism, it is in the direct jurisdiction of the RS government and is carried out everywhere on common ground, in a common way, with a law that applies throughout RS territory. I don't want to be or attribute myself to a role, or to my own party, that we're the only ones who know everything, that we're the only defenders of national interests. I suppose, as a party, we carry a proper historical experience and as people who deal with politics with appropriate personal experiences and appropriate knowledge. When we talk today, therefore, about this law, we can say that it is a good measure that is determined precisely between what the SPS principle insists – autonomy yes, statehood does not. The full jurisdiction of the Serbian state, characterized by the possibilities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, for anything even the biggest suspects may be suspicious about protecting the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the time I have at my disposal, and the handicap of those who watch this transmission in which, I'm afraid, we too often want to achieve only day-to-day-political points, and hence we don't talk about serious processes, so we also have the process of colleagues from Šumadia, and I highly doubt that the Shumadinac can be some kind of separatist, metropolis and detachment of Serbia's edges. It's a serious story. Some colleagues here say that people fight for life, fight for existence, survive their families, so it doesn't matter to them. I just don't understand one thing. Why isn't Kragujevac supposed to have a freeway, and Cachak needs one? Does it matter where he's a member of the government? As long as this country doesn't function on clear priorities, where it doesn't matter who the minister is or who the president is, or how much lobbyist power he has, it's important whether we have a consensus of national, economic, political, socially defined interest, we won't function well. As things depend on who's somewhere, it can be plus-minus 10% depending on the man, but globally it has to depend on the process that we want to support. The decentralisation process in Serbia should pass. I think it's the interest of every municipality, every city, I think it's the interest of Serbia. If we want to do this, as a political elite in Serbia, and I believe that parliament is a political elite, because it represents those who want to be the political elite in Serbia, because some are elite by status and not by quality, then we really need to take care of what we place to the public. I am afraid that part of these activities is aimed at the next elections, where we will not discuss the quality of life, political stability in Serbia, because we ourselves are not offering appropriate solutions in economic or political and social terms, but rather we will be dealing with the naked struggle for power in irrational arguments. It won't matter again how many employees we have, how many unemployed, how many factories work, how many plants don't work. To discuss what the privatisation process has brought and things like that. But it's not a subject, so if the chairman didn't warn me in that sense, I just want to say, so tomorrow I'm going to talk about the statute, there was more trouble there than the law itself. I think that these solutions, set up like this, with respect for the Constitution, with the introduction of a supervision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for everything that can be, my colleague, I say there is, therefore, very good that the full authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been introduced everywhere where something can be disputed. It could have been the governor, maybe it could have been the Assembly, maybe it could have been the Ministry. I see that the government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proposing, has defined itself and I think that's good. I don't think any future government of the RS or most of it will allow anything, I'm just saying this for the citizens who are now listening and watching, separatistally. I don't think it will allow any party that has real power through the number of votes it can win on the Serbian political market. So I don't want to defend even my own game too much. I think we've shown ourselves quite enough in that patriotic sense, because this is where the SPS is also respected that we wanted some marketing points. I have to tell you that we have been taking this very seriously, and in agreement with our political partners, we have submitted some amendments. The technical process itself can be slowed down, whether it should have been done in the Vojvodina Assembly one way or another. But much less political tensions will produce this solution, which will lead to the adoption of two agreed documents, which is this law on the transfer of jurisdiction, namely the powers of the AP Vojvodina and the statutes of the AP Vojvodina, and that for a longer period of time, and the longer, the better, we put an end to this kind of debate, until we finish the questions of Serbia's decentralisation, but through a process that will not endanger its political stability, that this applies primarily to municipalities and cities. There's only one more question left here, and that's only yet to be solved, that's to end up defining the way of funding and ultimately defining the assets. I have to tell you, if these assets come down to what they're using right now, the existing authorities of the AP Vojvodina and the partial rights in the area of forestry, the water industry, with no real impact on urbanism and, say, the highway, as someone likes to say, because it remains a state, I don't see that the adoption of this law or statute when it comes to the agenda of anything that puts the state of Serbia at risk as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31337	Eleven minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply, but MP Zoran Ostojic wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31338	Dear Vice President, I think it's a violation of Article 101, a misreading, of what counterpart Pesic was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31339	National MP, a member of 101 can't be the subject of an injury during the session. People's MP, I'm going to give you my word again, with the remark that you've made a mistake, you didn't want to say 101st but 104th. I'm just asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31340	If someone were to say about their ideas -- we couldn't fight it in the Vojvodina Assembly, because there's a relationship of power unfavourable, I guess for ideas from the yogurt revolution, so we wanted it to come here as soon as we could because here we can easily push it out, it's objective insult to the Vojvodina, and the Bosa and this Parliament. That's what Mr. Bajatovic said. He voted in favour of the statute in the Vojvodina Assembly, and then he says, "But we've fixed it here now, so we beat the separatists." I really think that if something is hypocritical, I haven't seen anything so hypocritical as to say by Mr. Bajatovic, insulting Vojvodina, insulting the Vojvodina Assembly. The Vojvodina Assembly is a reflection of the will of the people of Vojvodina, and these ideas about the victory of separatism, with those with whom they are sitting in government, Mr. Bajatovic's party and the transfer that there are separatists, irredentists, autonomists, are indeed the highlight of hypocrisy. Being in a coalition with a party that often instead of politics has a marketing plan is obviously contagious, Mr. Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31341	There's no breach of Article 104. The MP explained his political position with the rules of business in a coherent manner. I ask all MPs, if they already want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and in fact they want a replica, to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because the same article 100, on which basis we get the word when we seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure, obliges them to impose penalties in the event of abuse of that right. Please prepare your exposure more carefully if you are looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to the replica, then MP Dusan Bajatovic, right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me first say nice to Mr. Cank, who is having lunch as we discuss the bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Mr. Bajatovic, 1940, Dr. Slobodan Draskovic published in the "Serbian Voice", an organ of the Serbian Cultural Club, an excellent article on policy principles. That article says: “You cannot be a Republican today, tomorrow a monarchist, today a communist, tomorrow an anti-Communist, today a Serb, tomorrow a citizen of the world, today a corrupter, tomorrow a cleaner. ” You can't behave like that either, Mr. Bayatovic. You've admired each other for years. Yoghurt revolution. I wonder what you would say about what you just said to people like Radovan Pankov, Michal Kertes, etc. It wasn't that long ago. I understand you as a man, it is easy for you, you are both an MP and a director, but I am afraid that you are not understood by the citizens of Serbia with what non-chalantity you are talking about the fact that in the Vojvodina Assembly you voted for a proposal for a statute for which you yourself have recognised, and today more than once, that it was contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now we're attending a one-time break-up of a state that needs to be presented in public as a child's game. There she was, playing with the kids. We knew even then that it was against the Constitution, but here we are, not causing turbulence, waiting for it to come to the Serbian Assembly, etc. Who will be responsible, Mr. Bajatovic, for the fact that a year ago your party in the Vojvodina Assembly, together with the DS, voted in favour of a proposal for a statute that was directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? If all this was clear, why the amendment, why wait a year, why these games about the legal-technical editorial text, why the three texts of the draft statute, what is it all about if you're a state-of-the-art party? This is not the way, Mr. Bajatovic, to take you to the EU. What you stand for, we've seen two centuries ago. You want Serbia to build a rally of nahih. I don't know which parties from the Woodland, this gentleman was talking about Karajord. Well, Karadjorje cut through the sword of such a state in Serbia, that we should not be a gathering of nahiji, to be a modern state, a single state, a strong state, to bring under the state roof, if possible, the entire Serbian people. You're headed the opposite way, let's split Serbia into a rally of nahiji and now let's let everyone in their nahiji think only of nahiji. Who's gonna think about the state? The one in Novi Sad will think of Vojvodina, the one in Kragujevac will think of Shumadi, the one in Nis will think... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31343	Three minutes are up. Right on the replica, MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31344	Dear colleagues, it may not be wise to engage in controversy with colleagues from the SRS because I am not familiar with the political project they have advocated and have succeeded. A short time ago, Mr. Martinovic didn't know the old Slovenian, which was spoken by a colleague from Kragujevac, and usually he knows everything and understands everything, so I don't understand it. My colleague Martinovic, these drinking replicas that you have, that demagogue you're spreading, I'm not going to pollute with her. What you're saying, that's funny. What did you just say? Did you tell me, who carried the rifle, who I participated in the anti-Birrocrat revolution, who I did all the work that this country gave me, what did you tell me, that I was her enemy and that you were her friend? Are you suggesting that? By what? Why on earth are you Serbian radicals, or are you afraid of the latest results of the SPS in the local elections, so you decided to connect it too? We don't have to let those socialists wave, we get the ball in 16 meters, we want to score a goal. I don't want to take any more turns with you. We're a little in growth, you're a little in decline, but that's the nature of things. I mean, I wasn't talking about what you were talking about. Maybe that's how you understood me. What was I gonna say? Yes, we voted in the duchy parliament to pass that original bill of statute, with eight amendments we had. The eight amendments were mostly the things the public had argued about. What was I gonna say? To continue the controversy in the Vojvodina Assembly, where this act cannot be brought in and cannot look any different than it did at the time, because that's what some political majority thought, it was pointless. Let it move on, let it come to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because it belongs here, because it will be adopted or rejected here as a political project. It is obvious that it will be adopted and it is obvious that both you and I will vote for it, and the fact that we are politically different, my God, is a wealth of political diversity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31345	Right to the replica of MP Aleksandar Martinovic, then MP Zoran Ostojic. So this circle of replicas would be over. National MP Miroslav Markic, you do not have the right to reply to any of the presentations of MPs. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. You've been warned twice that the dropout from the scene is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. People's MP Miroslav Markic, please don't throw it away. You have no right to a replica. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. You'll be talking for 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I don't understand why Mr. Bajatovic is so upset. So obviously someone pissed you off, Mr. Bayatovic, so you're a little nervous. There's no need for the SRS to be ashamed of anything she's done in 20 years and we haven't changed our policy, and you're wondering if you might have had any changes. Mr. Bajatovic, today on TV Vojvodina, when we talk about the bill of jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, you know what's going on? A movie about the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, a film that says that only one man, your former president, your former party president and former SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic, is guilty of the collapse of Yugoslavia. The SRS has not even changed its political programme for Yota, and it is not a political programme invented by the SRS. What the SRS fought for were people like Karadjord, Ilia Garasanin, Jovan Ristic, Nikola Pasic, and this programme is very simple, Mr Bajatovic, and that is that all Serbs agree and gather within a single state. It's a project some European nations managed to accomplish, some in the 18th century, some in the 19th century, some earlier. To the Serbian people, unfortunately, that didn't go hand in hand, but that doesn't mean it's not a good idea. The idea of a single Serbian state, Mr. Bayatovic, is a long-term political project. The idea of a great Serbia implies that you are a great Serb, and a great Serb means you are a great man. You who are changing politics from today to tomorrow, who, due to the directorial posts, are changing the ideology, which because of the chair you give up the man who was killed in The Hague tribunal, you are who you are, you can't even realize that idea. We in the SRS hope that the time will come, some better generation of Serbs will come, I guess it will also refer to Serbia's political scene, so the idea fought by the SRS will finally become a political reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31347	Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31348	Mr. Bajatovic, if relations between your party and the SRS had become like this before, Serbia would have been a better place to live. But it's never too late. I wouldn't enjoy having a partner in the '90s. I'm just saying that in the next problem -- when you say that you couldn't lead the controversy there, the controversy is over. You voted. The will of the people of Vojvodina has also been shown through the composition of that assembly which has passed the statute, which you voted for, and ultimately, we want to go back a little bit to the fact that the Constitution did not pass in Vojvodina. What's the problem with us liberals? When do you think you were wrong? When did you vote for the statute or today when you beat separatists with this patriotic rhetoric? We don't know when you're right. Do you know? Do you know what's important? You're also an MP. You're headed by a big company, though, a big loser, but you're turning around and making decisions about a lot of money. The other day you went and started a company in Switzerland with Russian partners, and this is where it says we're going to make 500 million, billions through transportation. He's gonna make that firm in Switzerland. That's where the South Stream company was built. Make up your mind, Mr. Bayatovic, were you then, how can I say, aware and wanted what you voted for or today you are trying to, conditionally speaking, collect cheap points, since you and, let's say, your party colleagues are performing responsible functions in this country? It's important that you know what you want. It's not just political marketing. That, Mr. Bayatovic, is what I'm talking about. Or have you left, let's say, your duchy position and now that you're in Belgrade talking about what you're saying, so for example, you're buying, that firm you run, even though it's a big loser, has found three million euros to buy Belgrade Information. This policy leads to people laughing at us in Europe, so they say, you have a policy for the West one, for the Russians the other, the third one for the interior. Do they resent you these days? You don't know what politics is. That's what I reacted to, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31349	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Excuse me, Mr. Markicevic, you can't get the word. Mrs. Comic assessed it, and she was present and chaired it, that there was no basis for replication. That part's over. (Employee Miroslav Markicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You can do it by your rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31350	Madam President, why are you listening to this much Chomićka? I really don't understand. Well, you're the president. I didn't vote you, but because I'm an opposition. I wanted to vote you, and I thought you were tolerance. Why do you allow it? You weren't even in the O.R. She only told you - don't give the word Markicevic. Why are you listening to her? Smarten up the socialists. An hour ago, I received from the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests that proceedings were initiated for violations of the law against Mr Krstic. I expect President Tadic to suspend him immediately for breaking the law. Why am I telling you socialists? Your Minister Skundric, whether or not he has broken the law or not, has been established by the government. It's been going through the media for seven days. Look at the little logs tonight and see if the Councilor of the President of the Republic will be in the media, that he has broken the law, that he has not reported that he has a private firm as a high-ranking official in the environment of the President of the Republic. Listen to Chomićka. How do you know what it was like for her to say that I had no right to speak? I recognized our parliamentary group in Mr. Bajatovic's discussion. I don't think he had any bad intentions, just that he misunderstood us. I was gonna say five sentences. Is this the National Assembly? Why can't I say five sentences? I understand you're allowing me to tell Mr. Bayatovic five sentences. Mr. Bajatovic, president of our parliamentary group and party spoke about the highway to Kragujevac. You understood we were against building that highway. Far away, save God. You know how much he fought for it. He only said that there could be no whims and conditions of private companies, such as Italy, which do not respect the agreement with the state of Serbia and have not paid a single euro at the expense of this state of Serbia, and the state of Serbia is paying cars of 1,000 euros from the budget, and the budget is of all citizens of Serbia. Who authorized who? Who authorized the government? Who authorized Mladjan Dinkic to do that? That's what Mr. Velimir Ilic wanted to say. You didn't understand. You see, Madam President, nothing is scary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31351	Time. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Palalic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31352	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at this session, we are discussing two very important acts, a law establishing jurisdiction and a decision confirming the statutes. Both completely contrary to the constitution, both state-worshiped, with devastating consequences for Serbia and the Serb people. I am not sure that MPs are aware of the historical responsibility they will make in the voting day. The whole of Serbia is watching this debate and they feel that there is something deeply wrong with these proposed acts, because never this kind of debate with this much concern for everyone who has spoken about these acts has been conducted in the National Assembly. These acts, especially the statutes we're going to discuss tomorrow, contain solutions that really make assumptions that another state is being created on Serbia's soil and create assumptions that the processes of separatism in the Vojvodina area are opening. They're not passwords. They're not fears. Institutions are created, competencies are introduced, disturbances are related between state authorities and regional authorities. The hierarchical legal order is collapsing, so new formation can be created in Serbia's space. A series of things that are defined, solutions in these laws, and especially in the statutes, really point to that. Not to mention the shame that has been given to us, that the National Assembly is discussing a law that adapts to a sublegal act, according to the solutions we see in the law on determining jurisdiction, that many members are prescribed from the draft statutes. Instead, the direction of state policy and autonomy determines the executive power and the National Assembly by adopting this law, so that the statutes that will be agreed with the Constitution were adopted, the policy was set outside the executive authority, outside the government and outside this National Assembly. Definitions and territories, international co-operation, competences, property, relations between authorities, law enforcement, institutions -- are all elements of a new creation and a new state in Serbia's space. It is in the very definition that you in the statute, in the first two positions, have the exact opposite of the definition of Vojvodina. The Serbian Constitution says "The Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and of all citizens living in it." The statute says, "Vojvodina is an autonomous province of citizens and citizens." Quite the opposite. Why not also define Vojvodina as an autonomous province of the Serbian people and of all minorities, to which the broadest rights, living in the area of the autonomous province, should be guaranteed? It's defined as a region, which as a legal term doesn't exist? International co-operation has been described as "Vojvodina will conclude the contracts", "Vojvodina will co-operate". Nowhere is there: "to respect the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia". But nowhere is "the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia", which will ensure that it does not go beyond the state policy of the Republic of Serbia. Why is the government of the Republic of Serbia left out? Institutions - institutions are filled in with content. The institutions are the foundation of what will happen in Vojvodina - the government of Vojvodina, the capital of Vojvodina, the Academy of Sciences of Vojvodina, the Vojvodine Development Bank, the network of courts in Vojvodina, the Council of National Communities which does not exist as a concept in the Constitution, the borrowing. These are the assumptions of the process that we will look at in the AP Vojvodina space. About the jurisdiction here in some discussion someone said - those powers can change this National Assembly tomorrow. Don't lie down, those who have defined, and like this they want to see the Vojvodina - they have made sure that the next assemblies of the IGPs can't do it. Article 2(2) states: "The law-making process will take care of the level of citizens' rights achieved in the province's autonomy... "That means -- now that it's written, it can't change. When it comes to the relationship between organs and here, the often mentioned supervisory roles of republican organs, it's amazing what you've done here. Will the laws of the Republic of Serbia be implemented and how they will be implemented, and will they react by the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia to the illegality of the decisions taken in the implementation of the law? It's very simple and clearly prevented. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia will not be able to undo this unless they agree with the AP authorities -- which is nowhere to be found. They negotiate and negotiate, as has been said before in the former SFRY, so the republics agreed that laws would be applied. When it comes to property, the Constitution says - property will be defined by public property law, which will determine the assets of the AP, type and level of income. You already define the type of income here, both in the statutes and in the law. You're prejudicing the public property bill in advance. Let's leave the law to him to define which types of income the AP will have, and you're counting them already. So, just as you have prejudged with the statutes the solutions of this law and are now bringing the minister here - to defend one final thing, so tomorrow you will bring one finance minister to explain the revenues of the AP that have already been established in the statute and in this law. As far as law enforcement relations are concerned, you are giving the AP Vojvodina the opportunity, I say -- an incredible humiliation this government has set up for itself and the National Assembly, that the AP is laying down regulations that enforce laws -- if the Serbian government has not passed them. Look out, that's amazing. The AP cannot lay down regulations implementing laws - only the law enforcement government of the Republic of Serbia can do so. It is written by the Constitution, as the government of Vojvodina cannot determine and implement politics -- only the Serbian government can do. I want to point out that the very strange processes and very strange policies that are defined within this ruling coalition. I'd say it's the spirit of communism and the ideas that that spirit has created for decades. The communists used to say -- poor Serbia, strong Yugoslavia. Now we are looking at processes -- poor Serbia, strong Europeanism. All that seems through the laws, through the creation of these institutions -- Eulex, the Statute of Vojvodina, meddling in the Raška area, the pressure on Republika Srpska, is a strange policy that certainly aims to weaken the state of Serbia, to weaken the Serbian Corps. Not to mention, through the introduction of the National Communities Council, in fact, and we'll talk about it tomorrow, you created a national minority from the Serb people. I ask you to withdraw this bill -- that this authority is no longer humiliated, that we do not humiliate the citizens and that we prevent the destructive processes in the AP Vojvodina space, by our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31353	Mr. Zeljko Ivanji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31354	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Ministers, when we talk about the legal act that is before us today, we must also look at the formal aspect that is confirmed here by this law and which is defined by the Constitution and agreed with it. In this formal legal aspect, I would only like to point out that this act is in line with the provision of Article 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 176, and when we list all these members, then we can simply stray in that forest of legal norms, but it is important to talk about the essence of the championship. Let's talk a little bit more about this formal legal aspect, especially that part of interregional co-operation, which is so controversial and which is cited as controversial by individuals. Therefore, interregional co-operation has been defined by Article 3 of the Law on the Determination of the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and the position of 1st is already listed several times - that this is within the framework of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for territorial unity and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. So much, therefore, the "Republic of Serbia" in just one position shows, of course, the desire made by this legal act -- that it simply does not come out of the framework of the Republic of Serbia. The key issue, however, is the issue of regional co-operation, which is recognised, accepted and necessary at the level of all modern, civilised countries, primarily within the EU frameworks, which is apostrophe of regional co-operation, which helps regions to be evenly developed, to be competitive with each other and to win a game that will bring benefits to the region and countries that these regions make. This regional co-operation is within both the state itself and other countries. As far as territory and symbols are concerned, I could name such numbers and symbols and flags as the coat of arms of some European countries. This is common, but I would like to remind you that other cities in Serbia have their own flag and their symbol provided for in the statute. For example, it is the city of Nis, which also has its flag and its coat of arms, that is Article 8. The statute of the city of Nis. Also, when we talk about the National Park "Fruška Gora" and when it is apostrophe that this national park is an element of so-called "Fruška Gora". The statehood of Vojvodina, he speaks, that Article 27 speaks- that the AP Vojvodina is establishing a public firm for the management of the National Park "Fruška Gora". So, the National Park "Fruška Gora" is therefore a national park within the Republic of Serbia that will be managed by a public enterprise from the territory of Vojvodina. It's normal for that national park to be run by whoever lives there and it's normal for him to be more interested than we are in that national park. The Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina as a legal act is in line with all the legal acts of the Republic of Serbia and that is the formal legal aspect of the story of this law and the Statute of Vojvodina. Along with cosmetic changes that seemed to the legal laymen as cosmetics, and to fellow lawyers, a story about the legal aspects of a matter that has been possessed by the public in Serbia for weeks has been exhausted. The essence of this issue goes beyond that, I can freely say, a boring formal aspect and, of course, as well as some other issues in Serbia, it gets one higher dimension, which in some ways, I fear, can in some cases become rude or political, as someone today called it, and represents a further responsibility primarily for what we have done to ourselves and others, but also forget about what others have done to us and others. In all our divisions, and divided themselves, without any sense of genuine belonging to one or the other, we are too often paranoid, too often and desperate, because we have in memory of the 1990s when we were led by those who made a rag out of their own country. So, it is high time to accept responsibility, Serbia needs Vojvodina to have its legal act, which will be an expression of its specificity, which will be an expression of Serbia's best face, its symbol, which also represents Serbia from the time of the banishment with the patriarchy that was then in Karlovac, with other nationalities, other cultures, customs. That part of Serbia was an inspiration, that part of Serbia was free, that part of Serbia was the foundation and guardian of our spirituality and culture. It was the only Serbia at the time, while everything else was a myth. Serbia today was the place where we who built its history and who had a relationship with that history were the Serbian, forestry, sremska, baba, Banatska. On behalf of the neighbours who came to Christmas and on behalf of us who went to theirs, also our Christmas, and us who were looking forward to Santa Claus and Christmas battle, were created by Vojvodina as a phenomenon and as a pride. I lead the origins of Pig Sreme, I love wine even though I'm not from wine and I love Banat and Backa, but I don't like those who want to fight, those who want to bleed, I don't like those who will be on our hump, underestimating this or that which will be profiled in those who will share tomorrow. I do not like those who will judge and judge in the name of the court, both for the account and for the account of the people, who will judge in the name of the Constitutional Court. I don't like those who would make a cloth out of Vojvodina, like the story of the statute almost became. I am not on the side of those who would make the duchy the same way as I did not like those who swear in Kosovo and know nothing about Kosovo. Both Vojvodina and Kosovo belong to us who know them, knowing what they mean to us. Institutions only have meaning if we give them meaning. That's why the Academy of Science has no meaning unless there are academics who would fill that academy. The capital belongs to the citizens, so we must have citizens, but we are devastated for years that have been behind us, in the 1990s that have destroyed the citizens, but have also destroyed the institutions. No central government is good for any region because the central government is killing any initiative or initiative, and if anyone wants to realise their initiative, then it threatens to be brutally choked by bureaucracy, and sometimes even by a political link. Centralism kills individuality, individualism, it kills diversity and speciality. He kills an individual who wants to take responsibility, and the murder consists of allowing us instead of taking responsibility, the centralized state is calling for responsibility for moves we didn't even intend to take. That's why G17 plus prepared a guillotine of regulations to cut off the centralized state's tentacles, which she hugged us with the desire to protect us from ourselves. No one is intended by this law, as we have heard - Pančevac goes to a doctor in Novi Sad, instead of near Belgrade, the goal is for Novi Sad to be competitive with Belgrade for the quality of health services. So, the bottom line is competitiveness. This essential part doesn't say in the Constitution, at least not this way. There's something written in the statute, more or less in formal law terms, and whether this whole story makes sense will depend solely on us. When someone asks what will happen to all Serbia, whether it will be regionalised, I promise that all of Serbia will be divided into regions because even regional development means the answer to the idea that anyone, ever, will think of secession because regions must have other regions for a race that promotes competitiveness, and if you no longer have runners, you will not have a race, in which the central state only has to ensure the conditions for all to run at the same time. So there is no privilege for anyone, the same conditions in a competitive country of competitive regions that will boost the development of Serbia as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31355	Mr. Mašić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31356	Dear Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will first and foremost speak of the unconstitutional transfer of the jurisdiction of the state administration to the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, otherwise the responsibilities of which we, as well as everywhere in the world, are essentially carried out by ministries as state bodies. I'm going to start from agriculture above all else, and I'm going to talk about higher education and science and technological development. The truth is, as far as agriculture is concerned, in Article 183. The constitution states that autonomous provinces, in a scale with the law, regulate issues of regional importance in the areas of agriculture, water, forestry, hunting and fishing. This should not be fundamentally controversial, however, what is being given or entrusted to the province's authorities in the area of agriculture is controversial. I will start first from the area of agriculture itself, and at point 1) of Article 13 states that the authorities of the autonomous province bring, implement and monitor the measures of agrarian policy and rural development. The measures of agrarian policy and rural development in this country have been adopted by the state, and so it is laid down by the Agricultural and Rural Development Act, which we adopted in this National Assembly a few months ago, and it is normal for each country to have one agricultural development strategy, and in the context of the development of agriculture, certainly development in these rural or marginal areas. However, the proposal for this law essentially gives jurisdiction to the provincial authorities to adopt and establish the measures of agrarian policy themselves. I don't think it's of any interest to agriculture in the Republic of Serbia or the AP Vojvodina itself. Especially what is extreme and indistinguishable, I must use that harsh word, that is what is at point 7 of this Article 13 regulated. It says - an autonomous province through its authorities proposes to the competent ministry the conditions of exports and imports of certain agricultural products. Does this mean that certain or not know which agricultural products cannot be exported or imported from this country unless the authorities of the province grant certain consent or carry out an assessment of the conditions for export or import? I think it's extremely unnecessary in this law and it's not within these constitutional competences that are regulated. What's also worrying, it's inspection surveillance in the area of agriculture. So far, agricultural inspection has been exclusively within the Republic's jurisdiction and it is everywhere in the world that the state inspection controls such a significant economic portfolio or economic operator as agriculture. These draft laws essentially refer inspection controls in the area of agriculture, then livestock farming as branches of agriculture, water, forestry, hunting and fishing to rural authorities. I ask the Government, and the Minister of Agriculture, and you from the ruling majority – what will the General Inspectorate that exists within the Ministry of Agriculture oversee in the AP Vojvodina, if all these competencies are transferred to the AP in the framework of inspection affairs? The collection of funds from certain agricultural areas is also fully transferred to the AP, which are fees for the use and use of water, then fishing areas and agricultural land. According to existing laws, part of the revenue achieved from these areas belonged to Vojvodina, but most belonged to and entered the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's now fully directed to the AP Vojvodina. I think only these few facts are sufficient to establish that these laws in the field of agriculture are passed on certain responsibilities that are not in accordance with either the Constitution or the existing laws, and ultimately, with one legal and civilised practice everywhere in the world. I want to say something about higher education. I am sorry that there is no Minister Obradovic, as competent minister, to ask him what his responsibilities will be in the field of higher education in the AP Vojvodina, when the AP Vojvodina through its authorities is given the authority to issue work permits in higher education institutions on Vojvodina territory, then to establish higher education institutions on its own, certainly to rule on the abolition of higher education institutions whose founder is. And what has also not been a practice so far, and what do I think also makes no sense, to make a decision on the number of students to enroll in the first year of study programmes financed from the budget? The truth is, it says that institutions need to get the opinion of a higher school institution, not only do I know which, and the National High Education Council, no later than two months before the opening of the competition. In all, most of the responsibilities in the area of higher education are fully transferred to the authorities of the AP and the Ministry of Education in essence, in my opinion, there is almost no jurisdiction, because literally from the establishment to the full supervision of all higher education institutions and even enrolment policies, it is passed on to the regional authorities. Furthermore, what is the most drastic violation of the Constitution is in the field of science and technological development. Our Constitution, Article 97, exclusive constitutional jurisdiction is specified in point 12, in the field of science and technological development, it belongs to the Republic of Serbia. However, here in the draft law of Article 64, certain responsibilities of the AP have been established in the field of science and technological development. Point 1) states that AP authorities adopt a technological development strategy for the AP Vojvodina. In every normal state, the strategy of technological development is brought to the state level and it is unique for all provinces and for all local self-governments that have an interest in the development of certain, to say, technological innovations or other businesses in this sector. Here they are given, although it is totally unconstitutional, powers to the authorities of the AP. What is particularly unfounded and inadmissible, and what has already been achieved in the AP, is that at point 9 of this proposal of the law determines that the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts exists in fact as such an institution and that the AP Vojvodina budget provides financial resources for its work. The truth works, for the sake of the public, for a few more minutes, I'm going to pay particular attention to this VANU, and I'm going to bring out what this academy represents today, what it does, what its work programme is and what its action and influence has achieved in the past. With all due respect and with prior apology to certain members of the academy, which I personally know and have a good view of as university teachers, but simply because of the fact that it is an academy that was founded, first of all, as a political institution and as a wish and a determination of a certain political set, and on the other hand we have SANU as a national scientific research institution, I simply have to do some things to the public to say. First of all, I want to say that this academy was founded on 23 October 2003, that the Assembly established by its act, and at that time the President of the District Assembly was Mr Nenad Canak. Since the founding of the academy, SANU has repeatedly been advertised and challenged and presented the fact that the unnecessarily existence and establishment of such an institution is unnecessary. However, the competent institutions in the Republic of Serbia have been deafening about SANU's position and I will only remind myself that somewhere in November last year, President SANU, Mr Nikola Hajdin, said that the formation of another academy on the ground of the Republic of Serbia is completely unnecessary and that everywhere in the world, the Academy of Science and Art is founded as a national institution and it is common for each state to have one national state or royal academy, and that the academys are predominantly established as scientific institutions and that only state authorities that have jurisdiction in the field of science can establish it. I've already said that jurisdiction in the field of science has a republic. Currently, VANU has 17 members, of which three regular, 14 correspondence and one honorary, in fact 18 members. There are two departments, the Department of Social Sciences and Arts, which have six members, both secretaries and five members, and the Department of Natural and Technical Sciences, which has 11 members, both secretaries and 10 members. The programme of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts is this, says the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, as a regional academy with ambitions to achieve itself as a medium-European, and is oriented towards the system of values of space and environments in which it operates, starting with the following basic principles: Vojvodina has specificities that require that scientificly describe and explain and artistic expressions, but it is at the same time a space that corresponds with other heterogeneous European and world regions; and the result of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts provides bridges to connect Vojvodina and Serbia with the world, ultimately necessary, after taking place in the last decade in this and wider area. Science and art must not be policy maids, but should teach natural and social, economic, professional, cultural, scientific problems in the environment in which they operate and help politicians and politicians to better see and solve the problems of the social community. The Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts will coordinate with extended scientific teams during the first four-year period and implement a strategic project of importance for Vojvodina under the common title "The Natural and Spiritual Resources of Vojvodina". The strategic project of the branch is in several sub-projects, co-ordinated by the departments of social sciences and art, the department of natural and technical sciences. These are copies from the Duke Academy program. In 2008, the Vojvodjana Academy had its primary task in fully affirming the Academy as a regional Academy of Sciences and Arts related to the premises of Vojvodina, which meant the entry of VANU into the Statute of Vojvodina and the budget of Vojvodina. Furthermore, the development of long-term data related to the natural and human resources of Vojvodina, one of such projects is the Encyclopedia of Vojvodina. Realisation of signed agreements on international co-operation with Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, as well as the conclusion of new agreements with the Academys in the environment, and the possibility of participation in international projects. Further, good intensive and expanded co-operation with the province's institutions, primarily the Secretariat for Science and Culture, as well as the expansion of co-operation with the University of Novi Sad and its universities, as well as the expansion of current individual co-operation with the MAtica Serbian and SANU department in Novi Sad to institutional co-operation. For now or in this past period, there was only individual co-operation of members of the academy with the Matica Serbian or individual people and from the SANU department. The international co-operation of the Academy has been particularly interesting. In 2008, the Academy of Science and Arts continued to expand its collaboration with the Academy of Sciences, Foreign Science Institutes, and in the past year, co-operation with the following institutions was realised: the Austrian Academy of Sciences, the Slovak Academy of Sciences, the Dukljan Academy of Sciences and Arts, the Scientific Research Institute for Water Management from Bratislava, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the public body of the Hungarian Association of European Associations for the Encouragement of Biomass Use, the Department of International Public Law of the Institute for State and Legal Sciences of the Faculty and the University of Miskolc, the Regional Department of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in Segedin, etc. Gentlemen, from this very brief statement, you can see what is the basis of this academy's activities, how much it advances scientific research or has improved through a work programme to improve scientific research in Vojvodina, how much will education work improve. I think there are all the preconditions to do everything by the republican authorities to shut down that academy, to get people elected there, who deserve and have everything they need translated or, let me say, to be elected to SANU and to do their job there. I think the world will laugh at us that in one small country like this we have two Academy of Science, and science funds are at a level smaller than Albania stands out, as one of the most underdeveloped countries in the Balkans. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31357	Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31358	Dear fellow MPs, I would like to give you just a few words about the issue of the establishment of higher education institutions. This right of the AP to establish independent higher education institutions was established by the 2002 Law. I would like to remind you that the entire procedure for the establishment of higher education institutions is very clear, precise and determined and has several steps. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has chosen the National Council for Higher Education. The National High Education Council has formed a Quality Verification Commission as its working group. The National Council for Higher Education, selected by this National Assembly, lays down standards relating to the establishment of higher education institutions. The accreditation committee shall carry out the whole process consisting of two steps. In the first step, an opinion is given on the establishment of higher education institutions, the opinion implies the fulfilment of certain conditions. The entire accreditation process followed by the identification, i.e. the fulfilment by higher education institutions of certain rules relating to space, teaching staff and scientific competences of selected teachers. Just getting permission to work really, after meeting all the conditions, doesn't matter which one is attached to or may have in public. After all, the whole process of issuing a work permit is only one of the links in the chain of work of higher education institutions, and it is not necessary to overlook the fact that all higher education institutions, regardless of the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia in which they are located, whether they are AP Vojvodina or elsewhere, are and will be subject to quality checks. It's something that's just waiting for us, which is forgotten, because the programs are being obtained, the credentials of accreditation lasts for a few years, and after a few years, they'll be checked for whether all those conditions that have been met are still valid. That'll work for everyone. Nor will higher education institutions in the AP territory be excluded from the whole process, i.e. the conditions will be the same for all. Whoever meets the requirements will be given permission, who does not meet the conditions, of course he will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31359	The People's Messenger Nenad Canak has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31360	The LSV believes that the proposal for a law establishing the jurisdiction of Vojvodina is one document of quite modest proportions and that it does not need to seek great inspirations, because three years ago one group of parties, one of whom would have apostrophe of the DSS and the SRS, with all its factions, voted for a constitution that was nakaradan, bad, against whom LSV, along with its LDP counterparts, organized to rebel. We did it, we did everything we could as a League to make the citizens of Vojvodina familiar with the contents of that constitution. As a result, the constitution was not confirmed in the Vojvodina referendum, but the Vojvodjani, as probably the most loyal part of Serbia's citizens, accepted it, although not confirmed in Vojvodina, and sought to implement it. When I say the most loyal, I will immediately support the evidence. Loyalty in a civilized world is measured by how much tax is paid and how much tax collection is due, because enforcement of the tax liability is in fact the best evidence of patriotism in today's world. Unfortunately, Vojvodina is ahead of it, but some others don't follow it the way it should. All in all, today we hear that these same ones, who swore that this constitution was the real constitution and who then said that this is what will guarantee Kosovo's survival in Serbia, are fighting some phantom separatism. We haven't been since yesterday. We all remember well how many Separatisms you've fought, and so far they've managed not to win any. He'll probably be able to defeat separatism in Vojvodina because he's not there. That is why they chose him for today's lamentation over Serbia's integrity, and it is forgotten that this law that I mentioned, therefore, the bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, contains practically nothing in itself that would mean some kind of original autonomy of the AP Vojvodina. Only two can be mentioned from the original competences: that Vojvodina can have an opinion, which is indeed an impressive responsibility and, on the other hand, that Vojvodina can give to the boards of directors of certain state enterprises by one member of the Management Board without the right to vote. These are these impressive original powers. Everyone else is transferred, which you can look at, and see for yourself. Those trusty responsibilities, it's about like when someone trusts you with money to go buy him cigarettes. That's the level of jurisdiction offered to the AP Vojvodina. And that's why it's more than hypocritical when someone calls it separatism or making a state in the state. The policy now conducted by the DSS, the SRS and all its factions shows absolutely that it is the continuity of the logic of centralism, which was also devastating for the SFRY. I haven't noticed that this policy has managed to keep in one state the Vienna stables, Ustashaid formations, mujahedinian formations, Montenegrin smugglers and I don't know who was being insulted, with this going to be a road for a solid and strong state in the Balkans. That didn't work out. It succeeded in my distinguished colleague, who spoke before me, Professor Masic, saying that by creating the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, although she has existed since 1979, two Academy of Science will be created in Serbia's territory. It offends me as a patriot, it would be three, since there is a Kosovo Academy of Science and Arts, which the professor has forgotten or perhaps thinks Kosovo is not part of Serbia. There's one important thing to remember. In the territory of Vojvodina because of the centralism it has been exposed to, there is no more seat of any bank. The property of Vojvodina was centralized in 1996 by a law called the Law on Property owned by the Republic of Serbia, making the generations of Vojvodina a bureaucratic movement of feathers a property, practically, of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since then, this property has only been destroyed, sold out, and now someone's saying that this law, which I'm practically repeating, brings nothing, something back here, and that it's a real state in the country. Thank God it's the Vojvodina, because so far, those who have defended themselves against such things have not made states in the state, but states outside the country. These states out of the country so far have six, which has made this type of centralist concern for the state. That's why, if we're going to talk about patriotism, then I have to ask you -- who do you not trust in Vojvodina, who are those from Vojvodina who are going to launch a terrible operation to separate Vojvodina from Serbia? Who, the Serbs from Vojvodina? So, these same Vojvodina Serbs, where there are more monasteries on the Frusco Mountain than in all of Kosovo, these same Serbs will secede? Could these be Hungarians from Vojvodina, Hungary for which they were made in 1999, during the bombing, in Hungary's camps that were supposed to receive hundreds of thousands of people, and they did not come more than a few hundred, because they remained to share the fate of their fellow citizens and their fellow citizens in the only country - the Republic of Serbia? Could it be the Slovaks in Vojvodina, perhaps the natives in Vojvodina? Who's that? Is it those who have come to raise the Vojvodina with their own hands and make their last act of it, because they are not going anywhere from Vojvodina unless under the ground, unless they are dissipated by the actions of the SRS and others who have banished the Dukes in the 1990s, and now, my God, they are worried. Of course you're worried, you know what evil you've done there. That is why this bill only makes one sense, which is to open the first real political issue in this assembly, which is what Serbia should look like tomorrow. If he thinks it's a developed state, then he should remember - the Danube Bane extended from Saturday to behind the Kragujevac and no one is against it. The AP Vojvodina has been in existence for 161 years, in various variants, and the Republic of Serbia, in various variants, is 131. Well, think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31361	Mr. Alexander Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is a very clear scenario for this session. So, Boris Tadic's regime has sent a sudden Cank here as an on-call entertainer to laugh at Serbian citizens and try to try to use the blade to criticise the SRS according to this emeritus bill towards Nenad Canka, so that citizens of Serbia can gain false confidence that this is, in fact, the Nenada Canka project. Nenad Canak has to this extent a strong party that must not go to the elections on its own in any municipality in Vojvodina, and van Vojvodina, it should not be commented on in particular. Since some qualifications have been presented here that are rudely insulting not only every member of the SRS, but I mean every citizen of Serbia, I will try to say something for this short time. First of all, Mr. Canak, since you keep talking about how much taxes are paid, where's our property, where's our money, etc., tell us what tax you pay? Where did you get all this property and you don't have a day's work? Tell me what the recipe is for life's success, so we can all apply that recipe. How is it possible that someone who is only an MP in the Serbian Parliament has so much property? Tell us with what contribution do you participate in Serbia's budget, or the Vojvodina budget, how much tax do you pay and where did you get this property? Who was that, Mr. Canak, banished by the SRS? What place in Vojvodina? What are you talking about? You're saying there's 161 years of Vojvodina autonomy, if I'm not mistaken. Mr. Canak, the Serbian Duchy was created in 1848, the Vienna court recognised it in 1849, shut down on December 27th 1860. Where's 161 years? The thesis that Serbs living in Vojvodina have always fought for autonomy is not true. Mr. Canak in 1918, when the time came for Serbs to be united, unfortunately, that did not happen. Jasa Tomic, the largest autonomist under the Habsburg monarchy, said "The idea of Vojvodina autonomy in the single Serbian state is Austria's start". No, Mr. Canak, an example in Europe that seeks autonomy in its own country. This story of you continuing those 1848 autonomists is just as accurate as if someone were to say that the papal Inquisitors are continuations of the politics of Jesus Christ.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31363	Mr. Free Samardzic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31364	Although DSS declared separatists are not as interesting as hidden separatists, it is still important to say something about the words Mr. Canak here said in the context of the adoption of the Serbian Constitution. The truth works, not for something else. In fact, we're here tonight for who knows which time heard the truth that Vojvodina had a referendum on Serbia's Constitution. That's just not true. A referendum on Serbia's Constitution was called on the territory of all Serbia. All Serbian citizens voted according to a procedure set by Slobodan Milosevic when he was building the Constitution, which was adopted in September 1990. So, I had to remind myself, that the Constitution was declared 50% of Serbia's electoral body and that's how it was calculated. It's possible there weren't more than 50% in another place, but it's a very clear rule. So most of the population is wanted. I don't even know how someone came up with the idea of counting parts of Serbia as who declared themselves in what part of Serbia. But what is interesting in this observation is something that Vojvodina's proposal adopted in the process of adopting and changing the statutes of Vojvodina by Slobodan Milosevic and the way the Serbian Constitution was to be adopted, and how it should have changed. The proposal states that the Statute of the Vojvodina is therefore adopted by an absolute majority in the Assembly, and that it is changed by a two-thirds majority. This is, therefore, the way in which a document is to be drawn up for which a smaller majority is proposed, and then a larger majority is posted so that it can be preserved and that its removal from the agenda does not occur. This is what Serbian citizens must know for the sake of the truth. When it comes to the property of the Vojvodina in this law of determining jurisdiction, regardless of what was the property of the Vojvodina, who was it when he usurped it, whether it usurped, etc., we only want the law on the property of the Vojvodina to be passed before the statutes of the Vojvodina because that is what the Constitution requires. That, in the extreme line, is also written in this law on determining jurisdiction. So, he can't in his congregation determine what the Duke's property will be if he asks for the law to be passed, he can't prejudge it. We weren't looking for anything else here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31365	It's been three minutes. Mr. Nenad Canak has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31366	I would just draw attention to an esteemed colleague from the SRS that they may laugh at me, but you must make people in Serbia cry because you have made them unhappy to the point where all the places around Vojvodina have been emptied: Slankamen, Krtkovci, Beška. You think I don't know? All the names of the 27 places where your beatings drove people away. You want to call on Yasa Tomic and you don't think anyone knows you're calling on a notor killer who killed Misa Dimitrijevic, an anti-Semite, who, after political ties, got out of prison because it's your practice, so I guess that's why he's your role model? That's what I don't get. What are you telling me, that without one day of work, I have a lot of property? First of all, my property is as big as it is, and I have 21 years of work experience, I don't know if you know it, of which only a few years in the congregations. That's the whole story. Your attempts to change over the night into something I don't know, to tear into thousands of factions that will be held together tomorrow by the same program of "Great Serbia", which has already cost hundreds of thousands of people. That's not gonna happen. As for Mr Samardzic, the Serbian Constitution has passed a referendum in Serbia. Yes, but not in any of the municipalities in Vojvodina. So, by doing so, anyone with any political hearing would well ask how much such a constitution could benefit a state in which, in its supposed most developed part, Vojvodina was long since the most developed part, one of the 15 most developed municipalities in Serbia, with the highest income, eight on the territory of the city of Belgrade, four on the territory of geographical Serbia and three on the territory of Vojvodina, of which the most developed municipality of Vrsac is 12th place. These are the data that are the consequences of centralism that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31367	National MP Zoran Mašić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31368	I'd like to replicate. It is true that Mr. Canak said that in some period in the Republic of Serbia there were three Academy of Sciences, it was Kosovo and it was the Vojvodjan Academy, certainly the Kosovo Academy of Sciences and the Vojvodjanska were the product of the 1974 Constitution, the Constitution that brought great problems and great ruin to the Republic of Serbia. Fortunately, changes to the Constitution have shut down these academys, however, the truth works, and that academy, especially the Kosovo Academy, has been the source and core of separatism in the province, which has culminated in armed combat and led to what we currently have in the province. Sure, my party and I don't give up KIM, we'll never give up. We consider this an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to be malice, not even in the subconscious, that the Vojvodian Academy of Science can be the core of something that was the Kosovo Academy, but I just want to remind you and others of what Academyman Matija Bećkovic said as a respected and respected academic, which is - when the academy gets a younger sister in its province, maybe the state will get a sister in the same province.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31369	National MP Zoran Ostojić, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31370	Mr Samardzic said something not true that a referendum was voted for throughout Serbia. There was no vote in all of Serbia or in Serbia, forests, fields and fields are counted, but not people. I remind you, Mr Samardzic, that the citizens of Kosovo, and for you Kosovo is in Serbia, Albanian nationalists were not in the voter lists. Therefore, indeed, it is hypocritical to call to the state and statehood from those who, while in power, ended up with the state so that Kosovo became a state, from those who cried when Serbia became a state. When Serbia renewed statehood, in 2006, by the will of the citizens of Montenegro, you welcomed the state of Serbia here, crying, and now your mouth is full of the state of Serbia. That's really hypocritical.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31371	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS did not banish anyone from Vojvodina. What happened in Vojvodina in 1991 and 1992 is the exchange of real estate between Serbs who were expelled from Tudjman's Croatia with one part of the Croats living in Vojvodina. So, Serbs changed, Mr. Canak, houses that in Zagreb, Osijek, Split, were then worth several hundred thousand German marks in the river, for houses in Srem, in those cities that were made of mud before World War II. Absolutely no one is expelled by anyone. In 99% of cases, Mr. Canak, the Croats from the aforementioned places profited because for the stables, for pigs, for houses that were prone to fall, they got luxury apartments, villas, really the best possible property that remained within Tudjman's Croatia. I really can't understand, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, that you're allowing lies to be told here and then those lies are even laughing. So, Mr. Canak, in 1992, and you remember who was the federal minister of justice, your ideologically, to say, comrade and friend, Momcilo Grubac. How could one opposition party banish anyone from Vojvodina, and the federal justice minister was Momcilo Grubac? If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Canak, it was you, Dragan Vesenov and your contemporaries who invited the exiled Serbs from Croatia to stay in Hrtkovci, to stay in Slankamen, to come to Kukujevci, etc., because there was property that could be exchanged with Croats living in those areas. So absolutely no one from the SRS has banished anyone. At this famous gathering in Hrtkovci, on 6 May 1992, Vojislav Seselj personally called for the safety of every Croatian living anywhere in Serbia, including in Hrtkovci, who is loyal to the state of Serbia. But he drew attention to the fact that many Croatians from Vojvodina had their brothers, friends, family members, who fought in the composition of Tudjman's National Guard Assembly. Tudjman, Mr. Canak, in 1990 through Croatian television publicly thanked the population of Hrtkovci for financial support for Croatia's victory... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31373	Mr. Canak has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31374	On May 6th, in Krtkovci, there was a rally of SRS reading 18 names of families who had to move out. The third on the list was the family of Alexa Ejic, president of the SPO. By the way, who is Vojislav Seselj to guarantee anyone security in Serbia, who has its own state organs? You served as a paramilitary unit to banish political inexperiences, and we all remember that well. It's not Vojislav Seselj sitting in The Hague because he didn't pay taxes on real estate, it's because he was driving people away with bombs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31375	Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31376	Madam President of the Assembly, I am not clear on why you gave the floor to Mr. Ostojić when neither he nor his party were mentioned in what I said. He simply wanted to get involved in this conversation and add a few sentences that had nothing to do with this subject. Therefore, it is really inappropriate for you to do so. But now that the word has fallen, I'm in a position to respond to what's been said. As Mr. Canak speaks of the citizens of Vojvodina, so Mr. Ostojic speaks of the citizens of Kosovo. There is no such thing in the Constitution of Serbia, there are only citizens of Serbia. It is true that Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija who are loyal to Serbia are voting for this Serbian Constitution. Therefore, the majority did not vote, the Albanian minority, the fact that their loyalty was known during the 1990s, and they could not even be recorded on the voter lists. I just want to repeat that this constitution has been adopted under the most restrictive conditions that exist in the world, therefore, to the supremacy of most voters, i.e. citizens of that country. For many, it is wrong that such a result has been done and therefore they try to question it afterwards. The legitimacy of such a constitution is unusually firm and will result in survival, whether anyone agrees with all its provisions or not. At the very end of the line, today we are having a debate that needs to preserve this Serbian Constitution. He was attacked within this very law on the transfer of jurisdiction, and above all by the proposal for the Statute of the Vojvodina adopted in the Vojvodina Assembly. It's the task of this session, and I'd like to ask you to return to that main topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31377	Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31378	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's almost a day's debate, so let's get involved with a few questions that have come up here. I can conclude with pleasure that the whole discussion is being conducted on just a few specific issues and I will try to make some clarifications about these issues. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: When can I get the word, Madam President? The previous discussion suggests that the state has committed genocide. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31379	Please don't throw it away. You can't get the word, you said what you had. The circle of replicas is complete. Let's move on. Please don't throw away, go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31380	Among other things, I also came forward to return to the subject because I have the impression that certain polemics between opposition parties have dominated here at times, which certainly won't help us to consider the provisions of this law that lies before us today. Here it was mainly spoken of in general both the law and the Statute of Vojvodina and, of course, all in the context of its constitutionality, i.e. the contest of certain provisions of the position of the Constitution. A few topics have come up here. The first topic is to conclude an agreement that the AP can conclude with similar territorial units in other countries. I must immediately say that this is nothing new, nor is it in any way controversial, because it is determined by the law of the AP of 181. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so at the very least those who participated in the adoption of the constitution should not have the same right to criticise it. At the same time, I will remind you that this right belongs not only to autonomous provinces, this right belongs to every municipality in Serbia, however, is defined by the same member of the Constitution as defined and as the right of an autonomous province. The second important point is the referendum issue. The referendum was defined exactly as defined by the same constitution as we all voted. Moreover, I must remind myself that neither the territory of the local self-government units can change without the citizens living in the territory of that unit of local self-government. The law and the statute make it very clear that this topic, or most of which is required, will be defined by law. The Law on Referendum and People's Initiative already exists, this existing Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, and has given the Duchy power even to regulate this issue on its own, but in this law and in this statute we have come to a position which I think is perfectly correct, that this still be defined by the Republic law. So now perhaps Mr. Canak could be a little bit more angry, because we have brought this topic back into real terms, so that it does not happen that the change of the AP Vojvodina border needs a larger majority than it does to change the borders of the Republic of Serbia. So I don't think that we should really politicise this issue either, because it's more than obvious that this issue is a direct consequence of constitutional solutions and that it's solved exactly as it has been so far and how it should be in the future. Now about this "her citizens". The constitution says the territory of autonomous provinces cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens. So don't let us manipulate termologically now or bring certain terminology, which may not be the happiest, into the context of what we're discussing here today. In fact, we all brought the Constitution together, we all applied for it together, voted for it, and now if we're facing some of the terminology of that constitution, don't let us honor it here through the question of the statutes and the law on determining jurisdiction. Finance and property. Finance and assets are exclusively resolved as provided for in the Constitution. Therefore, both finance and property will be resolved by a special law concerning the issue of funding of the AP Vojvodina, or a special law that will address the issue of public property in the Republic of Serbia. That's what it says in the statutes and in the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I really don't know why we're making this a topic. They've asked a surveillance question here. Oversight was defined by the Constitution. In Article 186, he defined how general acts can be supervised by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and you can neither take any more nor can you do less. You can't deepen that surveillance, because it would be a interference in the constitution guaranteed the right of citizens to territorial autonomy. Therefore, as Government, we can ask the Constitutional Court for any general act to be declared, and in the meantime, this act cannot enter into force, so before its entry into force, the Constitutional Court shall take a decision. There's nothing out there, there hasn't been anything out of it before, because it's been established by this Constitution. I'll remind you, under the previous Constitution, the government could have done it, but together we brought the Constitution to which we extended those borders. We just brought it together. I'll remind you, when we did that constitution, the Prime Minister was Vojislav Kostunica. Moreover, DS was an opposition. Let's remind ourselves a little. It's not fair. It's not fair how this discussion is conducted here. We were in opposition when that constitution was passed. That constitution extended this right of the AP Vojvodina. That constitution, which is precisely due to the great engagement and the DSS, not our constitution. Oversight of confidential business. Oversight over confidential business has been resolved by the State Administration Act. Oversight over confidential business is completely... I'm sorry. May I continue? I can't really yell. I'm not comfortable yelling so much. I'm sorry. I can't get used to it. We've been here all day. Oversight over confidential business has been resolved by the State Administration Act. The surveillance wasn't controversial, nor will it ever be. I think counterpart Zarko Obradovic said right from his field, from his sector, I suppose that any colleague in his sector can say, most of these things that have been established in this law have already been established by sectoral laws. I don't see it here, but really, no problem at all. As Minister of Local Self-Government, part of these responsibilities transferred to the AP Vojvodina would also be transferred to the city of Belgrade, above all, and then to other cities in Serbia. I'm going to encourage my government colleagues. Not the Minister of Education, because there has already been a lot done, but I will suggest to some other colleagues that sectoral laws execute decentralisation of the Republic and transfer some of the competences to Belgrade, Kragujevac, Kraljevo, Valjevo, Užice, Kruševac etc. Decentralization is a process that we need to do better, more efficiently. decentralisation does not mean losing any state prerogatives. The issue of the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Art is before the Constitutional Court at this point. True, it was launched in relation to the Law on the Serbian Academy of Science and Art. We'll see what the solution is. In my opinion, there's nothing so fundamentally controversial about calling here, I don't know what kind of tips from the past and saying, "I don't know what kind of separatist act this is." This academy has existed since 2003. It's funded by the AP Vojvodina budget. Personally, I really don't have a problem with that. I can be a lawyer to be skeptical about some issues, but let's not make any of the termological things or some symbolic things make an alarm in the public and make statements of the type – tearing up the state, separatism. These are such difficult words that we really don't need, and they have no standoffs in acts that today and tomorrow, when the debate on the statutes is held, will be in this House. How could it be discussed? I could take the law proposed by the DSS on determining jurisdiction, so let me tell you that neither the first, the second, the third, nor the fourth, nor the fifth member, except, let me say, the fourth, here and there, let's say, the 1, 2, 3 and 5 members are not in line with the RS Constitution. Even in the first article, you failed to define the autonomous province as you defined it in the constitution that we worked together. If I wanted to use this more politically, I would take a proposal for a 2004 constitution by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. So I would read, in article 149, that all issues of the Vojvodina are self-edited, these are all issues that are contained in this constitution. I could tell you something else, that the AP's jurisdiction is being passed by the laws of the province. So, I was against that being the case in this current statute. I'm also against what you wrote back then in the draft constitution. It is a proposal for the RS government's constitution, the 2004 draft. I think we need to be politically consistent, that this topic is being overly politicized. It was the very fact that it took a long time to prepare the law on determining jurisdiction, but I really think that our words, our assessments of this act, this law and the statutes should be measured and above all responsible, because not all people who look at us have adequate knowledge and know what the 2002 Omnibus looks like, and that they know that the Vojvodina Academy has existed since 2003, and that the property is being resolved by special law, and that they know that the referendum does not refer to the change of Serbia's borders, but to the change of borders, possibly the AP Vojvodina, and that they know that the same rights also have municipalities and cities in Serbia that are given to Vojvodina here. Our citizens can't know that, nor should they know. By listening to our discussion here, people will think they'll need a passport from tomorrow to cross Sava and Danube. I don't think it's responsible to do that, given what kind of trauma we're pulling out of the past. Responsibly, there is absolutely nothing in this statute and this law that in any way raises the question of territorial integrity and sovereignty of the RS. I'm absolutely standing at that point of view. Are all the terms completely correct? Are any symbolic markings really necessary to stand? That's another topic. It's a matter of taste, of legal technique. I have some remarks. Everyone may have some objections, but we do not essentially have in any way the injured legal order of the Republic of Serbia, when we view the legal order as a set of norms that make up a logical continent. That doesn't stand here. On the other hand, I've heard from a number of colleagues that there's nothing concrete here, that this is all, I'd say, a lot of phrases, as if there should be a god here who knows what more. It's now defiant of what I used to answer. It's good. Well, you see, there are those who think you should have done more and those who think you should have done less. It's just telling me that the right measure is what we did. When we look at the other side, I would still say to these people that from the 10th and the next 70 members are discussing specific competences in certain areas. So we can't say that this Vojvodina in this sense didn't get certain jobs to work as a trusted state administration business, but that this is now, as someone said, all so little marketing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31381	Mrs. Verica Radeta is advocating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of the National Assembly, I am reporting on the basis of Article 27 of Article 1(1) and your obligation to take care of the application of the RS Constitution in the context of our debate. You and Mrs. Komic before you all day today, in relation to the SRS, are carrying out incredible legal violence. This is where the People's MPs of the regime can say and say the ugliest things about the SRS, about our president. You did not allow Mr. Martinovic to replicate all the insults they heard. Before you, Mrs. Comic, and just before Mr. Minister, we heard the most terrible insults at the expense of our president and SRS, and the state of Serbia, which Mr. Canak called a genocide state at the time. You have not responded, but why at least you did not allow Mr Martinovic, and he has the right, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, if you have defined yourself not to fight for the original views of your party and your President Slobodan Milosevic, do not deny us the right under Article 101. The constitution that we are fighting, because this is what we want, for attitudes and principles of the SRS, for Vojislav Seselj, for his endangered rights in The Hague tribunal. You have no reason to consult. You were, you heard what was said here, and I ask you to take care of it. You can't turn this debate in some direction that Mr. Milan Markovic tried earlier. Today, a debate is being held on a very serious and dangerous topic for the citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31383	Time. Mrs. Radeta, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Terminology - war criminals and so on came from that side. I warned myself that we couldn't talk about such complex and significant matter, and I called on us to return to the agenda. Therefore, and now I beg you. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you're not satisfied... Please don't throw it away. If you're not satisfied with my answer, you're not. In voting day, I ask the Assembly to declare whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Samardzic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No, there's no basis for replication, no, no, no, there was a circle of replicas, you explained everything to each other. No, you explained everything to each other, it's actually moving away from the current theme through the replicas. So, no. Mr. Milos Aligrudić, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31384	You've hurt Article 27. Rules of Procedure for the way you run the Assembly, which is totally contrary to the Rules of Procedure and to the spirit of the Rules of Procedure regarding all other provisions, especially Article 104. Your conduct, as chairman, offends the MPs of the people, hence the citizens who chose them. We have already warned you of this many times, and therefore we have applied for your resolution, which is today of course taken down by emergency procedure, but remains on the table to discuss it. Namely, if the minister makes statements directly related to the matter that we are discussing and directly mentions the political views of the party that the authorised representative has expressed in his presentation, with a direct reference to what has been said, and everyone today by your vice president is allowed, when I tell everyone, to exchange strong replicas, just as matter is concerned and what is said in matter. It's just amazing that you don't give one single chance to the DSS representative to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31385	Mr Samardzic answered the line before the minister spoke. If you have a replica of the minister, no, no, you'll get a word if it's a replica on his exposure. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31386	So here a man has to fight for a word really like a lion to win by the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry Minister Markovic isn't here, he said a lot of things on the DSS account... I'm sorry, if you could charge me this time, and I'll start from the beginning. So it's not a good procedure for the minister to tell his story here and leave. I'm going to have to rephrase to him now, no matter what I personally feel uncomfortable doing in his absence. In fact, he answered a few things the DSS MPs were saying today. He hasn't answered a number of other things. Of course, I'll be fair enough to replicate to him exactly what he was saying. In fact, he mentioned the conclusion of inter-regional agreements that it was regulated in Article 181 of the Constitution. Article 181 The constitution speaks only of regional co-operation with relevant territorial communities of other countries. It does not mention interregional or international agreements at all. It is the novelty of the statutes of Vojvodina and of this law that prescribes the Statute of the Vojvodina. Then, around the referendum, Minister Markovic says the referendum should be conducted under the law. Well, that's actually our point. However, it does not stand in this law on determining jurisdiction. Article 4(3) states: The referendum is important if the majority of citizens who have an electoral right and residence in the territory of the AP Vojvodina voted on it. Therefore, it is not said that the referendum must be based on the law and established. Then, if it is about the laws he mentioned – the law on property and the law on financing the jurisdiction of the province, then the question is why is it not passed. It is the basic objection of the DSS and nothing else, i.e. why the law itself has not been passed. The second question - why is the law establishing jurisdiction prejudges the solution to the property law that is yet to be passed? So there's another internal problem here. Finally, apart from all these individual things that are really enough, Minister Markovic is, referring to fair play etc. Still tried and tried to score a low blow to the DSS. He therefore mentioned the jurisdiction law given to this assembly by the DSS. I will remind him that this law was given to the Assembly in April and that six months could not come to the Parliament's agenda, just so he knows. Secondly, when it comes to this law, we will discuss it, or the provisions of that law, we have taken as amendments to this law, and when it comes to details, then we will discuss it. Finally, when it comes to the 2004 Constitution proposal, it is not the DSS proposal, but the Serbian government's proposal. The DSS was in the coalition then. She has made a compromise with a coalition party over the legal role of the Vojvodina Assembly, retaining the right to fight for her position on the Constitutional Commission and he is elected – Serbia's current constitution does not have the legislative authority of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31387	Who advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27rd indent has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So it says that the president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The application of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, is not about protecting MPs from SRS MPs. Now it turns out that every MP in the ruling coalition can make a heavy accusation, and we have no right to answer that. This is not about that, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that politician Nenad Canak accused other politician Vojislav Seselj of committing genocide. This is about a man from power, who heads the state of Serbia today, accusing the same state of committing genocide in 1992 in a part of Serbia called Vojvodina. You were in power then, your party. I remind you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that Croatia is conducting proceedings against Serbia before the International Court of Justice over the alleged genocide. What do you think – what verdict will the International Court of Justice make when a man who is part of the ruling regime in Serbia says that the state has committed genocide? He couldn't have Vojislav Seselj as an individual, we couldn't have as a party committed genocide over anyone without being complicit of the state. You don't have to think now that by giving us the right to reply, you're defending the SRS. We can defend ourselves. You are obliged as the president of the National Assembly to defend the state of Serbia against a terrible charge -- which is not true, that the state of Serbia has genocided against the Croats in Vojvodina. You know that very well. Those are terrible accusations. These are charges that directly contribute to Croatia in the process before the International Court of Justice. These are the charges to justify Tudjman's policy – to artificially establish the balance of evil and to say, "Yes, Tudjman expelled Serbs, but also those in Serbia expelled Croats and all are equal."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31389	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You actually use the speech of politicians, not MPs, more politicians than MPs in mutual dialogues, not in the debate. Of course, Serbia is not a genocide state. Mr. Željko Tomić – A breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31390	Yes, of course, from the mouth of Minister Milan Markovic we heard a few things that simply do not correspond to the truth, so it must react because of Article 104, which invites us to respect the dignity of this home. The minister spoke, spoke, but did not answer just one question about the referendum, and the question is – where is the right of the province's statute to determine the matter of the referendum? Not from the Constitution, because it does not say in the Constitution – that the statute can do something and speak about the referendum. It's a brief and clear question, but you've been talking for a long time and you haven't answered. One more thing, since the minister used political speeches, but he was not warned, I would just remind you, Mr. Markovic, you rule both at the province and at the republican level and say nothing was disputed. You keep saying you don't see anything controversial. Why are you 14 months then and why are the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia 14 months waiting for this day? You're responsible. You can talk about DSS whatever you want – 14 months of citizens are waiting for you. Here, they finally met this day and you are now transferring the ball to opposition. Please don't. You're saying that nothing was disputed, so why were you changing the lines? What were you changing the text of the statutes? Why did you do that? Why were you so rudely correspondence with your District Committee from Vojvodina, your party? Why did he beat you with that chick, after which you kept your mouth shut, your own party cut you off in the media? After that, you kept your mouth shut. Is that right? No, we read the papers, we follow. Don't have to demagogue us now. You've been caught by the District Committee of the DS. After that, you never called again, and now you're saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31391	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31392	My dear colleague Tomic, I don't know, I'm a minister, so I don't really deal with the circuit boards, but as you can see, it's not in accordance with the Constitution that the District Assembly is passing laws. If you mean what I said back then, that's what I said today, so if that's why someone had the need to cut me down, as you say, he was wrong, obviously. I don't know who it is, I didn't follow it, I heard it in the paper something. So, as far as the referendum is concerned, let's be specific. If we're going to rip a hair here, as the people's, twice-in-a-trails would say, I recently released a law in the procedure where I wrote that the administration's competent ministry and one MP has submitted 16 amendments, believing that it should stand as the administration's department of affairs. I think you should say about management, because every ministry is in charge of the administration's affairs. In the end, it went beyond the Ministry's opinion to stay for the administration's work. So, if we're going to split the double-intruders, is it nomotechnically correct for the constitution to be transposed into the statutes or not, we can talk about it. We don't have a particular built-up law-writing technique. I think that in the National Assembly there is some initiative for the team and that there is some initiative to adopt something that would be some rule of law in the Republic of Serbia. I say, we still don't have them, at least not in an adequate way presented, but what's most important and what I want to say again is much more important to us that essentially nothing outside the Constitution was entered into that statute or the law establishing jurisdiction, and the referendum was introduced just as it was set out in the Constitution. So let's talk about the essence. The point is very clear. In the statutes, there is nothing in the law that goes beyond the limits of our constitution. The right of citizens to a referendum on the change of territory and on municipalities, both cities and the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, has been established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and let us not frighten our citizens, they have enough to worry about anyway, even if we are from here scaring them with alleged stories, alleged secessions and so forth. So that's not here. It's quite clear. I hope that when this debate is over, after three days I believe that no one will even remember these heavy accusations that have been heard in this house and in our public the previous days.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31393	Mr. Samardzic, have you answered on what grounds? There was really nothing vague or offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31394	No offense, but he was talking about the subject I was talking about. So it's not just a question of whether it's offensive, it's not offensive at all, it's incorrect and it's a problem. So, when it comes to the referendum, Minister, look at the proposal of the Duke's Statute. There's a provision for a referendum where there's no reference to the law. Now you're saying we're not going to have a three-way hair and we're not going to discuss nomotechnical issues right now. You know what the problem is? The problem is that this statute, with it and this law that we are discussing today, has at least a hundred to twenty provisions, at least 30 to 40 members who are on the verge of such a nomotechnical interpretation. Systemic interpretation and statutes and laws will easily show you that the number of these mistakes, which you consider minimal, when placed next to each other is such that there is indeed one systematic intention to make out of the statutes and the law something that is contrary to the Constitution of Serbia. That's the problem. So, if a category of citizens of Vojvodina is introduced, if a category of national communities is introduced, if the rights of the Vojvodina authorities are introduced to adopt acts on the enforcement of Serbian law, if there is no mention of the law when talking about a referendum, if such things are listed at least 40-50, then there is a systemic lack of something both in the statute and in that law. That's actually what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31395	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31396	Professor, you know, I respect you very much, we've been colleagues in the government, I think you've accidentally, I suppose, told the truth, or perhaps you've read these later provisions concerning a referendum on matters of the province's jurisdiction. But Article 3 when it comes to the territory of the AP Duke’s position 5 — a decision in the referendum under Article 4 of this article was made if it was voted by the majority laid down by law. Please don't do this for the public. So -- established by law, most will be established by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31397	Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31398	I refer to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, because it has simply been said on several occasions, and now Minister Markovic has repeated it, or directed a threat to the DSS to stop scaring citizens of Serbia, who otherwise have a very difficult life. So it's just not correct. Nobody scares anybody here. If that were true, I will only call on the words of the DS General Committee member and the recent chairman of the Regional Committee, Mr Goran Knezevic, who declares these two acts secessionist, who says he is at work crawling separatism in Vojvodina. If anyone knows about relations in the D.S. in the province, you said you didn't know, he knows Mr. Knezevic, and that's probably why he was removed from the post of Chairman of the Regional Committee. Because he recognized in this farce exactly the tendency to slowly create a state in the state and later create conditions for Vojvodina to secede. That's what this is about. Citizens of Serbia, you are attending a theatre performance in which the roles are divided in a way that the SPS allegedly protects the state and does not allow the creation of a state in the country. In doing so, the fact is satisfied with LSV and LDP. Consider not to enter into legal analysis as possible and how it is possible for us to agree on such an important matter unanimously with the SPS and the LSV, all under our paws and the DS cap, which, according to Mr Goran Knezevic, goes crawling, but goes safely to the creation of the state of Vojvodina within the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31399	Mr. Samardzic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31400	Mr. Minister, therefore, I respect you and we were together in the government, but since you're reminding me that I haven't read the Duke's statute properly, I have to do the same for you. I was talking about Article 3. Now I'm going to read it and it's important to what I'm talking about. Therefore, the territory of the AP Vojvodina cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens, expressed in a referendum. In paragraph 4, it is mentioned that the law determines only the majority and nothing more. The important point of view of the referendum in the context in which I speak is point 3. So, please, there's a material error on your side.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31401	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31402	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS is its parliamentary club, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the province's authorities, representatives of local self-government, and there is no dispute over what the DS's position is on Vojvodina's autonomy and about meeting the constitutional obligation in the Vojvodina autonomy. I simply think that a cheap political attack is an attempt to identify one, any member, former or current DS with the DS. The DS are here and we've told you how we feel about this statute and how we feel about jurisdiction law. We also told you how we feel about your variable policy and how you were at different times when you were in power and now when you were in opposition thinking about Vojvodina's autonomy, how then the legislative authority offered to Vojvodina's autonomy was not a state in the state, nor a crawling separatism, and now that Vojvodina's autonomy contains no element of statehood, you accuse us of being the ones who want to separate Vojvodina. It is simply neither politically consistent nor politically correct, and this is the best assessment given by citizens of Serbia who show their voices how much they trust such a changing policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31403	Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31404	Mr. Nikolic, you mentioned LDP in one negative context. You're talking about a play where some actors are parting roles. Let me tell you again, we are not satisfied with the degree of autonomy received by the Vojvodina by this law and by this statute. The problem is in the Constitution that you brought together with DS, SRS and SPS. That's the problem. Don't put LDP in your theatre performances. The LDP clearly says - this is the maximum based on that bad constitution, against which we were against. But even though we were against the Constitution, we somehow seem to be defending him here most strongly. Just remember the energy agreement with Russia. Who sued the Constitutional Court agreement? The Constitutional Court said it simply cannot be assessed because it is an international contract. That's not true, but the opinion of the Constitutional Court is final and final. You, if you think it's against the constitution, you have a chance to sue the Constitutional Court and that's what you'll do. But look, the Legislative Committee has said that everything is in accordance with the Constitution. On the other hand, we're going to vote very quickly on a law expropriating a country in favour of a company owned by foreigners, which is absolutely illegal and illegal. The Legislative Committee refuses to say it is against the law. He refuses to plead, and you do not object at all in this debate, you do not participate at all, although it is clear that this assembly, because it has no opinion and has no opinion because it is against the constitutional vote for something that is against the constitution. Okay, it's going to fall in the Constitutional Court, that monopoly that's being offered and given to a company, but be consistent. It's just that this is maximum, we're not satisfied. You brought this constitution, you wrote. If you think that this statute and the law have exceeded the limits of that Constitution, the only one who is entitled to appreciate what is in this country and in every normal country is constitutional or not the Constitutional Court. Your opinion is political opinion, not legal opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31405	Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31406	This, if you will, is a replica to Mrs Nadi Kolundji because she called the DSS position on a specific issue, which includes a parliamentary group. By the way, Mrs. Kolundjia, you can't honor something that doesn't exactly stand, which you're familiar with personally. That, in the end line, is not fair. You know very well how there was a proposal for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He has to go through one procedure. The government had to submit a constitutional proposal, which later went to the referendum and was confirmed, voted in the Assembly by a two-thirds majority and confirmed in the referendum. It was a procedure. In order to find the constitutional proposal on the table at all, it was necessary to create a consensus in the government itself between political parties that did not think the same about certain things. The DSS's programme position has always been against Vojvodina's legislative jurisdiction. When the formal constitutional proposal was found on the table voted by the government, even if it did find such a position on the legislative jurisdiction of Vojvodina, we, as you know very well, defended our position on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and during the final proposal of the text that Vojvodina cannot have legislative jurisdiction. That attitude was confirmed in the national referendum, previously in the Assembly by a two-thirds majority, and then by a national referendum. Here's the point of something else, what we're referring to, not that. We are referring to that, that a state order is based on constitutionality and it cannot be questioned - dear or unloved that Constitution was. Whoever has some idea that this should be changed, he has to make it clear that he should start the procedure if he has the power to initiate the procedure. The LDP here, which I agree with Mr. Ostojić, completely in this part of what he said, we brought together this Constitution. The LDP disagreed and disagreed today. These people are legitimately saying that this act needs to be changed. They're not in the political power to perform the procedure, but they're talking about it. What is said on the other hand, first of all, by the ruling coalition today, it is unfair, nor legitimate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31407	Minister Svetozar Chiplic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31408	To be honest, I waited a moment to hear one valid legal argument that would indicate that all what the opposition rightly observes is legally problematic. At this point, we have not received any valid legal argument that what is now before you, honourable MPs and honourable MPs, is a violation of the Constitution and is disputed from the aspect of the Constitution, let alone the story of what is in this House being the beginning of secession, secessionism, the tearing of the state etc. We've got a lot of things, some things, even though I've personally accepted them, I won't answer. As a man who was born in Vojvodina, as a man who is in his homeland of Bacvanin and as a man who is a Serb by his nation, I have been insulted here that people who are in Vojvodina, who are Serbs, are corrupt, that these are people who are willing to sell the state because someone in Europe is offering them something. Also, as a citizen of Serbia, from the part that lives in Vojvodina, I was offended that my fellow citizens belonging to another nation were by the nature of things suspicious and that they would gladly take Vojvodina somewhere else. These are the insults I have received here very personally, and I will not answer them. They shall serve all those who have spoken them. There's something legal. We are aware, we are all aware that this is about the conflict of a conservative position, which the state thinks is strong if it's strong by the 19th century idea and those who lead the country into the 21st century and know what the 21st century state is. In the 19th century, the state was strong because it felt that its citizens could do nothing themselves, but that the state had to keep everything normal. The 21st-century state serves its citizens, as I remind you, citizens are sovereign and sovereign. Such a country of the 21st century, technologically, if you will, is a highly decentralised state. This means that in the 21st century there is no doubt in the citizens, that in the 21st century the government serves the citizens, not the citizens of Serbia. So I'm asking you now - in 2002, remember that back then, in 2002, more or less all political parties participated in the idea of writing the Constitution. Do you remember, that's my question that I want an answer to, where did the proposal of the regional federal state that the DSS was then representing go missing? It was the two-home Serbian Parliament and then there were regions as federal units. I'm not saying anything about this idea, but I'm talking about the fact that it was on the political party site in 2002, it was also on the National Assembly site as a united proposal for all political parties. So if that's a fact, which is a fact, because it exists in printed form, then it's completely pointless. This job, which is the job -- to assess whether this law, this proposal of the statute, brings something to the citizens of Serbia, and whether it brings it to the citizens of Vojvodina -- brings it. If we can't say anything bad about it, then we'll insult that part of the citizenship that lives in Vojvodina without a problem, then we'll say that some things in the Constitution don't stand and stand. For example, what about my work, my resources, and these are human and minority rights. It is said that by the play of the case, just outside the Constitution, Vojvodina was given jurisdiction over human and minority rights. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear here, Article 79(2). In accordance with the Constitution under the law, the one we are discussing, or some other law, the province regulations can establish additional rights for members of national minorities. So we can have a circuit act that further edits or promotes such a thing. Article 183 - autonomous provinces seek to exercise human and minority rights in accordance with the law. Of course, if they have this authority and they make sure that in an act such as the statutes, they have to write something about it and say how they will take care of it. I would really like the debate on this law and on this statute to have as many legal arguments as possible, and I would also not like to hear the words that personally represent a personal insult to me and that, when it comes to separatism or secessionism, then swing as long as it takes to say who, when, where, where, what actions, who are these people who are in Vojvodina trying to do so. So, to put it this way, it's an insult. In any case, what we all want to do here, not only do we respect the Constitution in that part that citizens have the right to enjoy all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, we want to improve Serbia. Should the one who promotes Serbia, who is trying to make citizens live better, be suspected of dispersing Serbia? Anyway, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31409	National MPs Dragan Todorovic, Dragan Stevanovic, Zoran Nikolic, Slobodan Samardzic and Oedipus Sheriffs were reported in the electronic system. Dragan Todorovic, you want a replica, on whose exhibition? At the presentation of MP Zoran Ostojić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31410	I must admit, after such an inspiring presentation by Minister Ciplic, I simply lost my desire to speak, but it is good for the citizens of Serbia to see how our judges were, what our ministers were. I think this exposure will best help the citizens understand how competent ministers are at our disposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31411	People's MP, whatever your desire to commend Minister Chiplic is a fine gesture that he probably deserves, you have been given the right to the replica of MP Zoran Ostojić, so I ask that the contents of your replica be a replica of the People's MP Zoran Ostojić, not a minister. Please reapply. Now I have to delete the list of speakers, since the electronic system only receives five speakers. National MP Dragan Todorovic will register again. Everyone else who's been seen being reported will, of course, get word, so there's no confusion about the fact that you no longer have a signal that you're registered on the list. I ask MP Dragan Todorovic to sign up. You've got to be quick, MP. Now they've all signed up. Please sign in. Would you like a replica? You'll be in touch later. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants a replica. Whose exposure? Mr. Ostojić. Here you go. MP Zoran Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31412	I have already told the citizens that today we are attending a magical, theatre performance in which the roles are shared and in which the SPS equally participates, and LSV and LDP. Mr. Ostojić answered and made an excellent statement and justified his role, which is to try from the left to attack the DSS somehow. It is said here that they are not satisfied with this statute and the law on the transfer of jurisdiction, that is to say that they will still support the law, and we in the DSS say the next thing - based on everything that is written in the statute, which has been and what has been said, and these are the divided roles and which have clear elements of statehood, this proposal only determines a strong rural centre, which will have a higher budget than all 40 municipalities in Vojvodina, neither Zrenjanin nor Vršac nor Sombor nor Sremska Mitrovica nor Pančevo. You create a strong center, economically, financially independent, which should be financed by citizens from Vranja, Šapca, Užica, Nis, those who have less money, to allow someone to create a state in the country. This is not a concept of decentralisation, and if LDP wants to comply with the world standards Mr. Ciplic spoke of, and apparently very little knows, then this proposal and the statutes and the law on determining jurisdiction you as LDP should not support. But since you were ordered to support it by the script, that's why you're going to raise your hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31413	National MP Dragan Todorovic, right to the replica of MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ostojic, it is true that the SRS stood up for this constitution and it is not a problem in the Constitution, the problem is that the Constitution is not applied or implemented. Just to remind you that no constitutional court has yet been completed, that no law on the assembly has been passed, that the High Council of the judiciary has not been completed, that many things have not been done yet. What's this about? This is a simple matter, which we are sure is behind this law, behind the statutes, that there is something that will cost Serbia, regardless of all these beliefs and convictions that it will be in favour of the citizens of Serbia, I mean the citizens of Vojvodina, the people of Vojvodina. No, it won't, because we have experience with you. We don't believe you because we have experience with SRJ. That's what you said when the Belgrade Agreement was brought in, so you created the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and then Montenegro began to open its representations, around the world, primarily in Washington and Brussels. A short time after that, she introduced the mark as her currency, so after that you agreed to a referendum that would not go anywhere, in any country alone -- that 55% of those who went out could decide that Montenegro should secede from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In theory, 50% plus one vote, 55% of it's about 28%. Who's to say it's not waiting for us with Vojvodina? You now claim, but so you claimed for Montenegro - so Montenegro is how independent it is. You will not do any good, because these are the orders you are carrying out by the EU and America. You don't care about the people of Vojvodina, about the citizens of Serbia. If you took care of the interests of Serbian citizens, you would not rob this Serbia and continue to rob it. You don't care at all, you just carry out orders and that's why the Serbian Radical Party opposes this law on the transfer of jurisdiction and statute, because we know what's in the background. The creation of a new federal unit in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is in the background and should be prevented.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31415	Three minutes. The word is by MP Dragan Stevanovic, followed by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31416	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, looking aside from the SRS, you have expressed your position that some insults have come to your address. The Serbian Radical Party today through this debate no one, nor was it intended, and I suppose it did not offend you either, and at least the people of Vojvodina, and it is not delicious to say on behalf of the people of Vojvodina that someone in his political stances today in the debate wanted to insult them, on the one hand. On the other hand, we may say so, and so do we. We are offended by the views of those who represent the government here today and the assembly majority, and they call this project a decentralisation act. The project is called an act, as your prime minister said "consistent application of decentralisation". And you and I, everyone in this room knows that the essential, true decentralisation in one country means something different and something much more than what's on the agenda today. Do we understand this that the privilege of decentralisation only has the citizens of Vojvodina? Does that make any sense to us? How are we talking about decentralisation, not mentioning the south, the east, not mentioning Vranje, not mentioning the Sabbath or any other city? Therefore, if we want to be, to say, untasteful, there is room and chance, but this was really degutant that at the expense of the opposition you would place a burden on us to insult the citizens of Vojvodina. This is not our intention, but our intention is to strongly criticise the political establishment in Vojvodina, which has been given the opportunity to regulate this law, but it seems to us that the support of citizens in the elections has not been given by promoting such a law, but by promoting jobs and other perspectives in this country. And even if we accept, under some circumstances, that we define this partially as decentralisation, it is, but completely unconstitutional and asymmetric decentralisation. You know why she's asymmetric? Because, Mr. Minister, I am not talking to you but to all the ministers in the government, the concept of decentralisation, as it is before us, written in Novi Sad, not Belgrade. They expressed their maximalistic attitudes there. They don't have a measure. Mr. Canak is unhappy, he's a little bit, he's looking for more. We understand him, but you support all of this. If nothing, shut up about it. If the government had matured politically, it would have written a concept and started implementing the concept of decentralisation from Belgrade and showed that it understood problems in Vojvodina, in southern Serbia, in Beli Palanca, in Sapac and Valjevo. It's a concept of decentralisation. What decentralisation are you talking about? Without talking about funding local self-government, without talking about local self-government property, without talking about strengthening administrative capacity, economic capacity at local level, you're talking about decentralisation. It offends us, but we suffer. Therefore, this is a conflict of arguments and do not take it personally. After all, we have our own political stance and that's it, whether someone likes it or not. Today it is shown here, not the weakness of the government, that today the essential attitude and commitment of the government, the greatest part of the government, is shown here, to share an opinion with those who do not enjoy very much support among the citizens of Vojvodina, but unfortunately political blackmail can do what they do and their political views promote through such laws. Today someone was talking about the content of autonomy. The essence of the problem is the content that's defined here. One of the ministers mentioned it, from the 10th to the next. The content of autonomy is made so that in time parallel state institutions will be created. You are building a system that will at some point serve as an argument to re-examine the position of Vojvodina, which you are now putting and giving frames. We're talking about planning and building, about Article 10. You have defined well, in the most serious way you will be dealing with spatial planning, strategic planning, regional development and all the powers that no one else in Serbia has to deal with, only those living in Vojvodina. Do you really believe that, on the basis of Article 10, we need to believe that in Vojvodina, spatial planning will develop as part of the continent represented by the Republic of Serbia? No, it's going to happen as defined, only as part of the whole that the AP Vojvodina represents at the moment. It is dangerous and it systematically creates something that will emerge in the perspective and turn into everything that we really accuse and think is very devastating and is an attack on the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. You say further that this will give citizens a chance at a local level in the AP Vojvodina to arrange their lives. Where does it say here? Where in this law did you deal with the arrangement of life on a local level and in Vojvodina? Do you know what absurdity we live in and what absurd atmosphere we're discussing? In the local environments in Banat, citizens are as hard to live as they are in the Shop. If they don't live up there, then they live just like those who are in the most vulnerable part of Serbia, in southern Serbia. This is proof that even of this autonomy that you now have in Vojvodina, citizens have no use and have seen and felt. You should have questioned it in this respect, so if not, you should have abolished it, because essentially decentralisation means strengthening capacity at a local level, not creating some new small Belgrade, or Novi Sad. What about trusted business? In over 160 positions you have defined trusted jobs, in over 40 members of this law. Watch what's absurd and what's irony? In Article 8 of this Act, paragraph 3 states: "The means to carry out entrusted transactions is provided by the Republic of Serbia". And then, through these trusty jobs, you define the jobs that will collect the incomes of the AP Vojvodina. Is that usurp? We don't mind that the Republic of Serbia provides funds from the budget for Vojvodina, for southern Serbia, for the east and for the west. There's nothing controversial about it, but you're talking about decentralisation, you're talking about affirming the position of all the institutions and sectors in Vojvodina. Now the Republic of Serbia will also provide funds from the budget to which you will do your jobs and generate the revenue of the AP Vojvodina. Here, Article 17 – AP Vojvodina, through its bodies, in the area of water and in accordance with the law, collects funds from the compensation for the use and use of water, whose height is determined by the Government, issues water conditions, water economic consent, etc. Item 2 - Jobs of Article 1 shall be carried out as trusted. We pay them out of this budget, and the revenues will be on the province level. There can be very unpleasant and distasteful questions. Really, untasteful questions. With which citizens in Vojvodina can have a privileged position and manage their waters from the province level, their lakes, the fishing fund, forests, etc., and others in Serbia cannot do so, they will continue to be managed by someone from the republican level in Belgrade. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the government, I'm going to end up with one finding. The SRS believes that by doing this kind of action and such solutions, especially with what I was saying in the end, you tend to produce a revolution, a revolution for the citizens of the rest of Serbia compared to citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, a revolution that you will also at some point use to justify your actions, to be no longer part of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31417	Ten minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Minister Milan Markovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31418	I think my colleague Chiplic has already made it very clear that this debate has long since come out of the framework of law and is now being led into the policy area. Of course, when something is guided to the policy domain, it is also possible to say valuable courts that may not only have a foothold in the texts that lie ahead of us. At the very least, you can tell by the fact that some of the most debated here are not graduate lawyers. I have to say, I'm sorry about that. I would prefer that we talk about the text of the law and see what is controversial in the text of the law, which is why it is presented to our public that this law is something, don't give God, terribly bad for the Republic of Serbia. When we get the chance, we'll be answering more specific things now. A colleague expressed some concerns about the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces in the area of spatial planning and development. In the Constitution, Article 183 says – autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate issues of regional importance in the area, and number one – spatial planning and development. Then, the law says, among other things, I will say – an autonomous province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing spatial urban planning, under one – brings a regional spatial plan, a spatial plan of special purpose, a spatial network plan of infrastructure and network of areas and facilities special functions for areas in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, issues an urban permit, gives urban consent to facilities, etc., conducts inspection surveillance from the area of urbanism, solves by appeal, etc. Of course, this isn't the law we're talking about today. This is the 2002 law. It already exists. There's nothing new about it. It is also contained in the new law, only in line with new regulations that are in the area of spatial planning and construction. So there's nothing here. There's another problem here. Let's see, and that's what Mr. Ciplic asked, and unfortunately, he didn't get an answer, where in these acts there's one single shred of doubt that anyone is trying to break the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. On what basis is this being concluded, such a heavy charge? Based on what? On the basis of what member of this law or of this statute, such a heavy accusation? Just before counterpart Todorovic says – who guarantees us that someone sometimes won't do this or that? Listen, who guarantees us that according to the new constitution there will be no such majority in the Republic of Serbia, change the order or declare the monarchy? No one guarantees anything. But if we start with that logic, I recently said, in an interview, if we go with that logic to suspect ourselves, the first thing we need to do is to shut down the Internet, cable and satellite television, we can cut passports immediately and close the borders. So if we're going to suspect someone because, let's say, he thinks he needs to conclude regional agreements, that he can have a seat in Brussels or somewhere, that it's some kind of separatism act, no, we're going to stop someone from doing something by maybe closing his borders or something like that. What black acts of separatism? Belgrade has a contract with Chicago. Zemun, my distinguished colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic, with Palestine. I didn't think when Gordana Pop-Lazic did it and when I signed that agreement as a minister, I didn't suspect that she would take Zemun to Palestine. As president of the municipality, I did the same thing with the county of Corfu, so no one suspected me of betraying my country and taking the Palilu municipality to Corfu. So, come on, when we use such hard words, it's no small thing to accuse someone of separatism, it's no small thing to say that there's some sort of state-separacy root here. Come on, tell me what they're hiding in. We throw those words very easily, we give that type of qualifications very easily. In what? In what makes spatial plans? My dear counterpart, Belgrade is drawing up a general urban plan for the Belgrade city area. Come on, you answer that question. Let's run such a controversy as a lawyer, without these grades. A short time ago, a colleague, Samardzic, says: “But it does not say in attitude 3—in accordance with the law. ” There's no need, pal, believe me, I'm a lawyer, you're not, it's enough that it says in Section 5 - in accordance with the law. He can't do it any other way. One is the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, there are no more laws on referendums and the People's Initiative. One thing here is the Serbian Parliament in power to pass the law, no one but us can bring the law here, only this assembly can do it. I understand the need for political affirmation. When I was an opposition, normally, you find a topic, and then you state your views as a colleague on decentralisation, etc. But let's not let these acts that are in front of us, that people who live in Vojvodina, that people who work there in Vojvodina, that we somehow implode them to try to do something that isn't really true and it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31419	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Jovanovic Natasa receives a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31420	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I believe that Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, injured the Rules of Procedure by qualified individual MPs who participated in the debate as incompetent because they said they were not graduate lawyers. Mr. Markovic, if this were a legal scientific event, you would have failed your exam before the arguments of the regular professors of Novosadski, Belgrade and other universities, if I didn't tell you what those names were. On the other hand, next to me is Mrs. Comic, who is a professor of physics, Nenad Canak is an economist, Mr. Zoran Ostojić is also a graduate economist, Mrs. Pesic is a sociologist, Mr. Dragan Stevanović of the SRS is a graduate economist, who gave you a legal lecture. You are now offended by the fact that you have been graduated from the economists' arguments, as he has told you, because he expresses concern, as well as the whole of the SRS and a large part of the public, not only those who live in the AP Vojvodina, but also with me in Šumadia, in his Surdulica, that you want to create a sort of confederal status of the AP Vojvodina. He spoke to you in legal terms, he did not say it, but about, and that he is concerned, therefore, that even to the harm of citizens living in both Novi Sad and Temerin and Subotica, as well as us living in central or southern Serbia, this is not a good way to try and decentralisation in Serbia, as you have tried. He made it clear and loud to you - and you are exactly the minister of this portfolio, that decentralisation and democratisation, in the broadest sense, can only be done by giving greater authority to local self-government. Since you were one of the participants in writing the Law on Local Self-Government, let me make it a painful point for you (President: Two minutes). I'm just going to finish my sentence... Here, for 10 days on the commission, together with colleague Verica Radet, you should stick strictly to this law and help Serbian citizens live normal and from their work, not talk about it (President: Two minutes and 20 seconds). Who's professional and who's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31421	Minister Milan Markovic did not harm the Rules of Procedure. With insight into the stenogram, you can see that he only defined that the debate was more political than on the legal agenda and on the legal issues. He didn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Slobodan Samardzic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31422	I asked for a word for the replica right after Minister Ciplic spoke. Minister Markovic added another reason. Gentlemen Ministers, it won't be us using political and you using legal arguments. In fact, what you represent in this law and in this statute is one policy and it has some legal form, but it's a very clear policy. At the very least, there's a lot of politics in the science of constitutional law. The science in France is being taught as constitutional law and political system. If I were right to say so and the discussion of Minister Chiplic, when, digging into the past of the DSS, which has become the favorite discipline of many people here in parliament, made a mistake. He said that in 2002, the party had one proposal for Serbia's regional federal arrangement. Anyone who looks at the basic textbook of constitutional law or political system, or public law, will know that the Federations and regional states are two different forms of state order. The DSS could have made either a regional or a federal concept. She made a proposal for the principle of a regional state. She stuck to one of the models that prof. Miodrag Jovičić, 1995, and by all parameters, made sure that the concept did not go into the waters of federalism. Mr. Ciplic probably confused the concept with some others who, at the time, existed in the public discussion about the Constitution, say the Juris Forum, who actually made the concept of federal Serbia. Some others were also for regionalization. It's all gone and it doesn't matter now, we have a constitution like we have, a constitution with two autonomous provinces. What's a public matter and the political performance of the DSS is to defend this constitution. Otherwise, this fine legal story around the state of the 19th and 21st centuries simply doesn't hold water. It's one concept of modern state. It consists of citizens of the state. What is the problem of this statute and of this law, I keep insisting that the statute here is primary and that the law is secondary, rather than being vice versa, to which you have not yet replicated, is the problem that makes Serbian citizens unequal in that part of human and minority rights that is extremely illegal in this statute. The statute, in imitation of the Constitution, did not resist the need to introduce at least 6-7 members on minority and human rights, although it is constitutional matter and legal matter. Serbia's constitution has dealt with the problem most modernly in a very model and modern way. Serbia's law on the protection of national minorities has received the best assessments and confirmations of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31423	Three minutes. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31424	Finally a legal debate. Dear Members of Parliament and honourable MPs, perhaps, dear professor, you did not use the best word, I did not dig, simply, since it is the matter I normally do, we have long since archived all the proposals of the Constitution that were at the time current. One of these proposals was the concept of the late academic Jovicic, the concept of a regional state, and I was quite aware of the federal arrangement, since it is a feature of the federal state that it is a two-way. That's why the concept was specific. So, as soon as you have the region's House of Representatives, however, federal units, that upper home, without which no law can be passed, you clearly have a federal state in place. Let's just ignore it. I'm talking about the next situation. In fact, it's amazing that we read the same norms of the same constitution in the same language, and we understand completely different. That's totally fraternizing to me. The constitution, if the real difference in the minority body, says it explicitly, and the constitutionalist, was a large number of you among those who voted for the Constitution and were constitutionalists, saw some purpose. The constitution guarantees a minimum of minority rights and allows these minority rights to be strengthened sometimes and legally. Why? Because there are 28 national minorities in the Vojvodina case. Some of them aren't numerous. Moreover, there are several hundred members of that national minority. It is quite logical to expect that the AP will be easier to settle the issue through a decision by the province's assembly than the legislator will have both the attention and the will to settle the issue further. This idea is explicitly written in the Constitution. That's no problem. Simply, in accordance with the law, that's what the province has done, but if it says only the Constitution that the province can regulate the additional rights of national minorities, then that's what the founder said very clearly. The practice in Vojvodina has made Serbia a leader in the region in the domain of minority rights. I don't see what's wrong with that. That's prestigious. People are happy to live that way and are very loyal to this country. There's absolutely no fear, and there's no difference between us. Dear MP Stevanovic made an argument behind which I stand entirely. I believe, in fact, I would expect that, at the moment of decentralisation, as the Constitution requires, all of Serbia, we will have far more parliamentary votes. Don't forget article 20. The Constitution. He says that rural autonomy is the right of citizens of Serbia, all of them, not some. This inequality stems from a factual state, not from the Constitution and not from the will of this government. It's true that it's asymmetric decentralisation. Now we've already got it in place, and according to the 1990 Constitution, we've had it in action. Asymmetric decentralisation can be incomplete, as is ours, and we believe that we will complete it and it is in action, for example, in Italy, but it is also flexible. Asymmetric decentralisation is very rare. By nature things must be asymmetrical in order to be good, flexible in order to respect the difference. Finally, consider the fact when we say it's dangerous to decentralize the state, because there's a citizen who might break up and wish to secede from his queen. If that were the case, if those arguments were valid, the weakest state in this Europe would be Germany. She has four levels of decentralisation. No one thought of trying to centralize Germany. The point is, of course, it's not the German model we want and we can reach it, but it's about that some parts of Germany developed after World War II precisely because of the fact that they were decentralised. The case is Badenvirtenberg, from the poorest to the richest province. It's something we can use as an example. We know why it was like that. So, we agree and there is, in the end, my personal happiness, which I see among all MPs there is awareness of the need for real decentralisation of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31425	The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31426	You injured, Mrs. Komic, Article 104, paragraph 3, when you first allowed the minister and then a colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, to present the reviews and facts of other persons' private lives. Neither Minister nor Natasa Jovanovic has injured the Rules of Procedure. You are because it is your duty to take care of Article 104(3). Every time you've intervened so far, any of the MPs and anything like that say. You let the minister first comment on who is a lawyer, who is not a lawyer, that we are speaking politically here, of course, we are politicians and we are speaking politically here, and if this is not a political question, why, then, we are not crazy not to see, then why are the ministers here all day silent and now since 6:00, when the most visible transfer of parliament is, then the ministers are changing one and the other, that they explain to the Serbian citizens what they really wanted. Gentlemen, by the authority of the ministers, the lawyers, tell me if you claim that there is no concern here and that everything is in accordance with the Constitution, do you see the difference between the entrusted transactions provided for by the Constitution and the determination of the jurisdiction of the autonomous province that you foresee? Yes, there is a great danger and a serious danger of this law, from the statutes that will be discussed tomorrow, there are obvious secessionist intentions in these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31427	There's no breach of Article 104. With careful listening, i.e. later insight into the stenogram, you will see that Minister Milan Markovic and Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic used - some, all, some. So there was no expression that would be related to information for any particular person. Information relating to professions is not a matter of private data, since our interests are on the Internet pages and everyone knows what formal education we are and what we do, so there are no injuries to Article 104. For your remarks that you have broken the Rules of Procedure, I have asked all of us several times to stick to the Rules of Procedure and I think that by working with all of us, this session is going to run in a good atmosphere, and if it means throwing itself on some occasion, and my warning, it will probably be until the debate is over, but I really think that, with the cooperation of all of us here, this session has a good atmosphere and a good way to convey information and those for which we are all sitting here, and these are citizens and citizens of Serbia. Minister Milan Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31428	This is a little contradictory...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31429	Minister, just a second. Please don't throw away and I remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the minister gets his word when he asks. Don't ask me to break the Rules of Procedure. I'm getting a suggestion that I limit the time for the minister. I can't do that either. As you know, the Rules of Procedure say - a representative of the government gets a word whenever he asks for it and is not limited to the duration of his exposure. I will be happy to join all of you who have the intention to change the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Now there are no negotiations on that rule. Excuse me, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31430	I agree with you, as the old Romans would say, lex sed lex, bad law but law, so if you think that's a bad Rules of Procedure... So far from thinking this was a subject to be talked about by lawyers. God forbid. This is the topic everyone needs to talk about. It's simple, it's logical and normal. Many parts of this law apply to areas where the competences of people are different professions. But we came back about those topics of referendums, territories, etc., and then the question of sovereignty, the legal order, which is still some of the topics that people who are somehow competent to talk about. Now, if we didn't want to answer any questions, we really abstained. Believe me, no calculations. We sat there listening all day. There was a debate between the parliamentary groups. At first, the presidents of the parliamentary groups spoke, etc. We got involved in the debate when practically all these arguments were exhausted and we need to answer them. Unfortunately, or fortunately ours, we think there were very few valid arguments. You mentioned article 137, which is in this section of the Constitution, which speaks of the state administration, to trust public authority. You said we were running away from that member for some reason. I don't know why we should run from that member, who says it is in the interest of a more efficient, rational exercise of the rights and obligations of citizens and to meet their need for direct interest in life and work. The law can entrust the carrying out of certain tasks under the jurisdiction of RS to an autonomous province, the units of local self-government. It is further said that trust in jobs can even be done to individuals, etc. Furthermore, in the Constitution, in Article 178 says -- Serbia can again by law, that's what I think is most important here that we all know, trust can always be carried out only by law, that is, the National Assembly decides on it again. It can be trusted by law that autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, carry out individual or individual competences in RS jurisdiction. The Republic of Serbia, from the Corps of its responsibilities, can also trust certain businesses with the law. I have to admit, I didn't understand what was going on here. We now have one law before us, and this law gives us the confidence of certain tasks of the state administration in the Autonomous province. In addition, we have jobs that, according to the provisions of this Constitution, fall into what we would call the original work of the autonomous province. That goes for local self-government. Nothing more, nothing less. Nor was there anything controversial about the technique itself as it was done. Just when it comes to local self-government, I mean for extremely practical reasons, we haven't carried out the Law on Local Self-Government the trust of the mentioned business. Even when it was done, it was waiting for sectoral laws to exercise trust, let's say, in the field of education and health, and here, in my deep conviction, it would be almost impossible or it would take at least five years for each individual law to do business. In a way, the codification of all these trusted jobs was done here, with this numbering being open and can continue with the laws. Why is that so controversial? I really don't know. You may not like it legally, but you cannot dispute the legitimacy of such a solution. I like it the way I do. We have different tastes. I like this approach. It would be a disaster to get everyone out of individual laws. Imagine the users of all of this so they have to get along in the woods of regulations. Now, at least no one has that problem anymore. In these laws, they will be able to be very clear in the forest of these regulations. I have this kind of access and I believe in this kind of approach. It's another matter of your commitment. I think the approach you're trying to advocate is completely impossible. It would be necessary to change maybe 50-60 laws. That would be a disaster, definitely. We have a different view of it, but it's not about legitimacy, it's not about breaking up the state, it's not about all those accusations that were made here. We're talking about a different approach, whether what's written here should be in 16, 20 or 30 laws or should be in one law. It's just that, obviously, we're different. I'm glad that's where we're different. It's important that we don't differ at all. It's about that, so we didn't want to answer that. There's one question left that doesn't answer. Says a colleague - trusted jobs must be provided with money. Of course. It's a constitutional decree. For every trusted job, you provide money to whoever does the job for you. We have a confidential job of the state administration running the parent books. The money is provided through funds that go under the Law on the financing of local self-government. Speaking of funding local self-government, local self-government in Serbia has a higher percentage of GDP since 2000. Now I think it's reached about 2.4, if I'm not mistaken, without reducing the emergency, which we're all saving now. Therefore, the growth of gross social product is evident and this is seen in the budgets of local self-government units. The distribution of funds itself goes exclusively according to the law and there are extremely objective criteria and it is not disputed and to be checked. Mr. Chiplic and I are prepared to answer every question specifically. There remains a dilemma of what is so controversial in these texts while it has to rise in some way so much tension -- that this can be in some way, God forbid, against the state and against the Constitution. I still can't figure out what the problem is with these texts from the position of constitutionality and legality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31431	Right to the replica, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31432	I must say, I asked for a replica of your first exposure. Now that you've mentioned me, I'm going to tell you now, both in the first exhibition and in this one you're honoring me for something I haven't challenged. I'm not saying you don't need budget funds for trusted jobs, but through these entrusted jobs, there's going to be something that's going to be an AP revenue. I challenged that, and I questioned it. It's about that finding. As for earlier presentations, it does not say anywhere Mr. Minister that anyone who wants to or should sit here and wants to participate in the discussion - should and must be a graduate lawyer. Let's get along, 'cause I don't know, so if you need to tell me where it says. That's one thing. The second thing, dominantly through my story, I was talking about decentralisation, asymmetric, like this or something, and Mr. Chiplic noticed it. Then you volunteered as a graduate lawyer and told me a story - about spatial planning, competences, what in the context of spatial planning will the AP do. You've put something on my load again that I haven't challenged at all. I know very well by the Republic and by this law what business is in the context of spatial planning, and AP, and local self-government and the Republic. I have disputed, Mr Markovic, that through these jobs, spatial plans will be drawn up together, or as you say, integrated into the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. Why do I tell you this? In this member of the law, there is no position or point that categorically obliges the AP to align its planning documents with the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. Now look at what it says here in point 1 -- it edits development planning. What's that and what's the category? It further says -- in line with Serbia's economic policy and regional development strategy. You didn't even do well to write this in a "strategic" capital letter, so that we know what it refers to, a strategy that is declarative, not a resolution or binding document. You have not put anywhere here - the spatial plans of the Republic of Serbia which have the power of law and which are binding. There's one more thing I'm going to tell you that you know, I suppose you know, Serbia won in 1996 the last spatial plan that was made for 20 years. Do you know why it's been done for 20 years? It was created for 20 years because the obstruction in its adoption was carried out by the province's political structures AP KIM and AP Vojvodina. There are reasons why the SRS is under suspicion that things will be clean here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31433	The word has a folk letter by Natasa Jovanovic - right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31434	Replicating, Mr. Chiplet, to you. It's a good thing you brought it up. Today, in one context of our presentation of colleagues from the ruling party's parliamentary group, but before, especially in 2002, when we passed and then anti-constitutional Omnibus law on the trust of a number of powers of AP Vojvodina, some set an example, as you did earlier - the Federal Republic of Germany. I now have to tell you that at that time Professor Vojislav Seselj warned from the assembly speaker that it was not a good example, nor when we were in the SRJ, later in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, let alone now that we, after this secession of the second Serbian Republic of Montenegro, are a unitary independent Serbian state, because the German state is between a solid Federation and a regionally regulated state. Now you can imagine, there exists, as you all know, a country called the Independent Bavarian State. You can imagine now, Mr. Chiplet, to find some world power, she hasn't shown up yet, and to start with separatist tendencies and to encourage some separatists in Germany. Do you think if such a world power appeared, and it's bigger than the German state, that someone could stop it? Take an example of the confederal, if it's in the essential sense, it's not, but in formal terms it is, the position of the Swiss state. It survives for so many decades because it's a big-force deal. Now imagine again over the fact that there is some force that will infuse and fuel such tendencies and separatist aspirations in the Swiss state. Why am I telling you this? Because of the fact that just through this kind of vision model, as you say decentralisation, or regionalization, which many of your colleagues want to represent only as more economically privileged and better status, is hiding something else. We told you that our fear wasn't based on our assumptions, but on historical facts. You, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must know that even in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, here are the colleagues who are members of the Serbian delegation, run some tendencies that do not support what you were talking about, which is, I agree with - that the highest standards define the rights of national minorities in Serbia. Is that right - is it? We have 26 members of the Constitution. (President: Time. Here I go. They define it. On the other hand, they honor us that it's not right. Then answer me, since you were only talking about members of the national minorities in Vojvodina, how will you resolve the position of the Bulgarian national minority?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31435	People's MPs and ministers want to apply for a word. I repeat the information that when there are applications, the electronic system no longer receives new applications. So I will now read the order of the Members of the People's Parliament, so that they can apply and the following: Parliament of the People of the People, Vjerica Radet, Gordana Pop-Lazic, MP Aleksandar Martinović, Slobodan Samardzic and Nebojsa Rangelovic, who is registered as one who Please and repeat, I pronounce the names to be in the stenogram and so that you may hear, because I will delete the names, so the MPs who have the signal that they have submitted a request for a word in the electronic system will lose that signal. [[Nobojsa Rangelovic, from the post: I applied for the replica.]] So there's no confusion about not getting a word. People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, I understand that he wanted to speak by word applications No, replica, all right. [[Nobojsa Rangelovic, from the place: No, but for the replica half an hour ago.]] Then, after I've read your name, you'll get right on the line. Now I'm erasing the names so that the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, can apply. Please, once again - don't sign up now, so I can give my word to the MPs who want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The MP who wishes to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure shall be given the floor as soon as he or she reports under Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The names of MPs seeking a replica, I repeat for the third time, obviously long-term work has consequences, are the names that MPs will receive the right to reply. When I tell you the name, then I ask you to sign up, because it's the only way that with more than five registered Members, the electronic system works. I've been warned to explain for a long time. I'd like you not to warn me, but to hear it the first time I explain it. Then I don't explain it three times. Thank you. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. I'm just asking you to sign into the electronic system. Here, you have a word. You're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31436	Madam Chairman, I appeal to article 100 and to article 101. I would like to say that in the manner in which MPs abuse the Rules of Procedure, I address you, as the chairman, therefore, the right to a replica by Article 101 can only be obtained ''if the MP in his presentation at the session of the National Assembly is insolently expressed about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misread his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers has the right to a replica. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to the political group, the president of the parliamentary group has on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. The decision on cases referred to in Articles 1 and 2 shall be taken by the President, or by the chairman of the National Assembly." Please – there can be no right to a replica by having sex with the representatives of the Government without any of them even mentioning anyone and at least insulting them. So they're talking about content, about the subject. People's MPs who want to settle with attitudes, have a time group of MPs, have a list and please speak on that basis. The Rules of Procedure cannot be misused in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31437	There is no breach of Article 104, and I am fully aware of the way in which I apply the right to obtain a replica. Since giving the replica is a discretionary right of the chairman and since I have been warned that I am violating Article 104 by means of a replica, I will explain why I believe that, in accordance with Article 27, if you allow me, of course, and if you do not want to hear the explanation, it is not a problem for us to continue without an explanation and without reason leading me to apply Article 27. During this session, when we discuss the bill, very little, if not more than two or three presentations and discussions of the participants of the session were directly related to the text of the law. Most of the discussion was about the text of the statutes. I remind the MPs that the decision to give consent to the statutes is on the agenda tomorrow. As we did not intervene during the session, in the desire to maintain a good atmosphere and dialogue, that we could not talk about the statute but about the bill and stick to the agenda, and that we believe that the topic is extremely important both for the course of this session and for the good information of citizens and citizens of Serbia, that is why the application of Article 27, i.e. to care for the order of the National Assembly, is today going through the giving of the right to replication in circles, until the clarification of one topic is completed. At present, MPs and ministers have gone completely from the subject, and from the bill of jurisdiction, and on the statute not to speak, because tomorrow it is on the agenda. Through replicas, MPs and ministers speak about ways of Serbia's future arrangement in general. I have a choice - to break the circle of replicas or to ask the MPs to complete the cycle of replicas that is currently under way by telling us our opinions and on topics which have been touched by ministers and on topics that have developed through dialogue. In any case, the right to the replica is strictly based on Article 101. So, People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, do you want us to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31438	I apologize, risking you to give me a warning, but what I have pointed out is that the Rules of Procedure clearly defined in which terms are given the right to replication. I only ask that, as chairman, you respect the Rules of Procedure and give the right to replicas only in the conditions provided for by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31439	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, here's a suggestion. In accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since the debate is obviously of great importance and that there is a large number of MPs, and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and since this is a topic which is truly of life interest to all citizens of Serbia, especially those living in the territory of Vojvodina, and in order to have a uniform practice in the conduct of these sessions, I suggest that you interrupt the session at 20 hours, when the television broadcast is interrupted and the work continues tomorrow. Just to remind you, Mrs. Comic, yesterday you said: "Before I inform you about the amendments and reports of the board, a brief notice. Given that the work has been extended today and that the session of the National Assembly in television will be up to 18 hours and 30 minutes, and the total extension time after 18 hours will be no longer than 60 to 75 minutes, with some logical interruption, and since MPs are traveling, they can arrive at home and come to the session tomorrow at 10 o'clock." That was yesterday. Please, for the sake of uniform practice in holding sessions, that practice be represented today. I suggest that in 20 hours, you stop the work of the National Assembly and that tomorrow all citizens of Serbia can, at some normal time, monitor what is happening in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31441	No Article 27 has been broken, and tomorrow the session will begin at 12.00 hours, so MPs can work longer today, given that we are all interested in the topic and that we want to give full information to citizens and citizens of Serbia. We'll be working till the end today. I ask MP Dragan Zivkov not to throw. Four times during this session, I asked the People's Messengers not to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, lest you disturb the order of the sitting, that they may not earn while I explain what these messengers themselves are asking of me. If you want strict application of the Rules of Procedure and at this session, you have a partner in me, it will be strict application of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here present ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are obviously trying to deceive the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Markovic, we told you that in Article 137. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia writes that the Republic of Serbia can entrust public authority to an autonomous province, but only when it comes to the affairs of the state administration, and you tell us – is what is controversial. The dispute is that it does not say it in the bill, but it is the MPs who must warn you of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You have only referred to those provisions of the Constitution which you consider to be in favour of this bill, and those provisions of the Constitution that prevent you from adopting this bill, you have completely forgotten them. As for Mr. Chiplic's exposure, it's just amazing, first Mr. Branko Ruzic, and then Mr. Chiplic, they call for example the Federal Republic of Germany, which is, the very name he tells her, a federally decorated state. The Republic of Serbia, no matter what you do with it, is still by the letter of the Constitution of the unitary state. You can't just compare a country that's unitary to a state that's federally arranged. Mr. Chiplic, what does decentralisation in Germany have to do with the degree of its economic development? Have you heard of Marshall's plan? If it wasn't for American help, nothing would have happened to the Federal Republic of Germany. If American companies hadn't invested a lot of money, there would have been nothing in the economic development of the Federal Republic of Germany. It has nothing to do with decentralisation in Germany.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31443	People's MP, please bring the contents of the replica into contact with what the minister was saying. We didn't make it to Marshall's plan after all. Minister Svetozar Ciplic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31444	Personally, I think that even when Germany is mentioned, and when its example is mentioned, the whole sentence should be heard to the end. Of course, small Serbia, with this history, cannot view Germany as a model and an example to which we should seek. At the end of the line, I made it very clear, and I said it in my presentation. In fact, Germany is not an example for Serbia, but for those views that say that if you decentralised the state a little bit, there is separatism and weakness in that country. Germany is an example that when you have several levels of decentralisation that that state is not weak at all. I repeat, it is not an example for a country like Serbia, but it is an example of how the idea of decentralisation, which means that citizens in one territory begin to deal with certain problems on their own without waiting for the Supreme Authority, the state government, is the idea of decentralisation, giving results. That's a fact. No one argues that there are both negative and other positive sides. But at this point, we do not see, nor can anyone prove that in this Serbia, in this assembly, in this government, among citizens, there are those who want something bad to happen to Serbia, that there is some organised idea and group that will lead to a simple decentralisation that is carried out not in accordance with the Constitution, but in the framework of the Constitution, not in the full capacity that this constitution offers, but in a smaller capacity, that it will lead to the disintegration of the state. Finally, one of the key problems Serbia still has, and when you read this Constitution, then you will agree with me when you read it as a whole. Serbia still has an unfinished structure. He still has an unfinished structure. This imbalance in the structure, which we had under the 1991 Constitution, is a imbalance that has also created a problem in functioning, therefore in jurisdiction, and therefore this law collects in all areas and determines jurisdiction. It's actually the idea that this country has a clear, orderly legal order that will not be in trouble in the domain of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31445	The word has a people's letter... You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Right to the replica? You have no right to a replica in this circle. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31446	I thought Minister Markovic came out, but I can see that he's still out there somewhere, and there's Mr. Ciplic, it's pretty much whatever, because both of them were trying to explain inexplicably, and of course they don't care anymore, because the transfer is over, the ministers have nothing to do here anymore...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31447	National MPs, transmission's not complete. We're on the air for another 20 minutes. You've been given a word to use as a right to replicate the minister's statement. If you don't want to replicate what the minister has exposed, then go ahead and talk about it. That's right to the word. I'm asking the MP not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31448	Of course, I want to replicate, but I'm afraid that's pretty pointless when we don't have a government representative anymore. For the sake of the record, and in order to hear what I wanted to say, but the ministers here deceived the MPs and the public, and one and the other, trying to draw attention from the essence of the bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I asked both ministers to read Article 137. The constitution, but to interpret it. Mr. Milan Markovic only read that member of the Constitution and tried to explain what they were entrusted with. I'd like to remind, first of all, that the entrusted businesses our legal system has known since the 1990 Constitution. Trusted businesses have functioned by transferring their affairs to local self-government and the AP by means of laws that regulate certain matter. Part of the jurisdiction from the state administration, for example, we recently transposed the Law on Planning and Construction of Local Self-Government, where we provided that local self-governments issue building permits, for example, up to 400 square meters, and beyond that, for the Ministry, which is the original jurisdiction of the Ministry. Government representatives haven't explained what jurisdiction means? Trusted business means that these jobs already exist, so the state authority, the state administration, trusts them with local self-government or the AP. But determining jurisdiction means something completely new. It means that the AP Duke is determined by some jurisdiction that doesn't belong to the AP Vojvodina under the Constitution. That's what the essence is and the government's representatives didn't want to explain. I'm sure one and the other ministers who were here know that. They are not so bad lawyers, but they wanted to mislead Serbian citizens who are following the work of this parliament with their comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31449	Three minutes have elapsed, and I ask the Members of Parliament not to receive. The 30 seconds that she received from the People's Parliament to speak is the time I spent on the warning of the contents of her replica. I beg all of us to be patient and listen to each other. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 87, paragraph 1, has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Members of the government take part in meetings of the National Assembly, in addition to the MPs. The government has informed us, Mrs Comic, that all ministers represent in the National Assembly under this bill. The current government of the Republic of Serbia has 25 ministers. It's just amazing that out of 25 ministers, none can be found to attend a session of the National Assembly when such a delicate bill is discussed which, as you can see, has caused such controversy. Now questions are being asked the meaning of this debate. The TV broadcast will be off in a few minutes. It'll probably be delayed transmission in some small hours. There is no representative of the government. What is the purpose of our further work? Who are we supposed to do business with here? Who gives us answers to questions? Today, ministers persuaded us all day – we will not secede Vojvodina's "mothers dear". Yesterday you said we're working until 19.00 because of the MPs who are traveling. Today doesn't apply anymore. We can't trust you on the banal thing. Who's to trust you tomorrow that no new country will come out of this? Please, Mrs. Comic, shame and shame on the National Assembly that of the 25 members of the government, none can be found, at least sitting here. Bring in that minister without a portfolio. At least let him sit here. Let him play decor. Let him pretend that there is a government in Serbia, that there is an organised state government. There's absolutely no one here. There's no point in this session. This is a mockery of Serbian citizens. This is a mockery to all those who expect something big to happen at this session. And it will. This isn't banal stuff at all. You want to banalize them, say, "Oh, here's these evil, corrupt...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31451	Two minutes, thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Every government official has the right to go out and enter, and during this session, and during any session. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has the right to reply. The circle of replicas for which you have been reported has been completed, since it is obvious that the topic is not used for replicas, but for abuse of the right to replication. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31452	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I give up my right to the replica. An explanation of why I gave up my right to a replica when it was my regular exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31453	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31454	Yes, Mrs. Comic, you have violated both ethics and the Rules of Procedure. You called me as part of those MPs who applied for a circle of replicas and you said there was no need for me to register again and wait patiently for an hour for my turn, so that you would now tell me that I have no right to reply. Okay, when you're telling the truth, or when you're sticking to the Rules of Procedure and when you're not? Please, I call you first of all to the basic moral that you have in you, to now confess to everyone what this is about? Don't you want to hear me or have you got some double, triple arches? What am I supposed to do, take out my shoe to shoot you, or draw attention to myself or press this button? If I have to take my shoe out, tell me, and I'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31455	Thank you. You have no right to a replica. I said clearly - giving the right to replica is the discretionary authority of the chairman. It is obvious during the session that all the reasons for giving any replica have been exhausted and that the abuse of rights has taken place. The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, according to the application for a word in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31456	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I thank you for your word. I gave up the right to the replica because I had the impression that I would participate in something that looked kind of like a comedy absurd. I didn't want any part of it, so I gave up the line. What's called a conversation and a discussion on the subject I'll try to narrow down to eight minutes, as long as my MP group has left. He'd have asked a few questions before that. First of all, how am I supposed to deal with government representatives who aren't here? They gave us a shorter lecture on law theory in general and constitutional law theory. Then they picked up their bags and left. There are some of us here who also understand each other a little bit. We're both professors of law school. The main order was, if the ministers gave us such a lecture, to wait for them to hear the counterarguments. They're not here. I'd like to get an explanation on how to discuss such an important topic without the presence of a representative of the government? That, in my opinion, is the humiliation of this legislative body and of all of us who have waited patiently for a word. The so-called Some like to call it "prime time" they could report for replica after every MP. Now that the TV broadcast stops, they're gone. How else do we understand this than the way I talked about it? Minister Markovic asked us to return the debate to the framework of law. How am I supposed to talk to him now that he's not here? I thank my colleague Martinovic for his SMS, but this comes from the rules of discussion in this high house. I will be pleased to return the discussion to the frameworks of law and what Mr. Minister spoke of, and it is called legitimacy and constitutionality. I won't have enough time to ask everyone all the questions I wanted. We are talking about something stemming from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the Constitution has been given qualifications here, called legitimacy and constitutionality. Now let's all look ourselves in the eye and ask first - what's legitimacy? This constitution was brought in an extremely illegal manner, with an irregular referendum. Let's get someone up here and make an argument that the referendum was regular. It lasted 48 hours, with the flagrant violation of the rights of those who were against the Constitution, because when the referendum was brought into the situation that due to their turnout, all possible state officials and all the leaders of the opposition parties, who participated in this comedy, called the citizens in violation of all possible referendum rules to go out and vote, and then organised a referendum theft. So much for legitimacy. Now, what is this constitution that's been passed like that? Come on, all those who were for that constitution, I apologize to my LDP colleagues, we ran an anti-constitutional campaign, because even then we said it was bad, I see now we have more and more like-minded here who were for that constitution and now suddenly they're not for it, but they also agree that it's bad, let's let the creators, the writers of the Constitution tell me that the Constitution is not antinomic, that it's not inapplicable and that for many things it's hollow and bad. Let's get someone to give me any legal proof that, say, article 105 and 134. The constitution is not contrary, that they are therefore inapplicable, or Article 5 and Article 102 that they are not in the opposite and are therefore not inapplicable. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, apart from members of the LDP, you all participated in this constitutional scandal. This constitutional scandal has brought about a law like this and a statute like this. I'm sorry to have to say this, but whoever's with the devil's gourd, they're breaking his head. Now, on the one hand, speaking of the law and the statute, we distinguish MP groups that are against autonomy, and they were for such a constitution that predicts autonomy, and on the contrary some, which I have just mentioned, qualify as a group that seeks a state in the country. In the midst of this story, the DS, which looks to me like the Socialist Union of the Workers' People of Serbia, is trying to settle uncompromisingly and to somehow introduce the barren provisions of the public constitution into the domain of law, so that what will be called the law we are discussing and the statute of the AP Vojvodina. I'm so sorry to hear that. And, of course, someone's going to ask a question -- why are you going to vote for such a law and for such a statute? Because it's the only way to end an empty debate and to ask the Duke's question, which allows many here to drill into patriotic breasts, once off the agenda and then ask the right question - what are the citizens of this country going to live on? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31457	Forty seconds remained available to the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Milos Aligrudić has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger Jelena Travar-Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31458	Too bad the minister's gone, one and the other, because the debate just got a nice controversy tone, but come on, I'm gonna pretend like they're here because of the citizens who are going to watch this in a delayed transmission. Although it's also a disaster and a scandal for RTS to stop this transmission, things like this are on the agenda because of a game that's not of national interest. But well, it's not the first time we've faced this kind of difficulty. Here, during the debate on several occasions, the opposition was said by the legislators, and while it was quite alluded to the DSS members, they did not present any evidence of the claim that Vojvodina's statute, and therefore this law, which it supports, was unconstitutional. It's just a deaf game. People are explained something in a very simple, very simple way. Those skilled rhetorics turn it on something else by presenting that the object of the dispute is something that it's not. At no time is the object of the dispute here the right to decentralisation. At no time does the subject matter of the dispute have the right to autonomy. Whenever the representatives of the government here face a good argument which is why this job is bad and basically separatist, at the moment they come up with some falsely controversial topic to disabling those who are trying to explain in a logical and simple way what a separatist Udrum is in question. I'll try to explain it in a slightly different way and let you know what makes us think that this bill, in support of Vojvodina's unconstitutional statute, is a separatist act. First, in order for something in one country to be a separatist act, it must in itself be in dissent with the Constitution. Because if he's in agreement with the Constitution, there's no telling about any separatism. The very fact that these acts are adopted in one inappropriate way, in a reverse order, which means that the Statute of Vojvodina is passed in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, as a sublegal act, before any of the laws that must be passed under the Constitution, which determine the competences of the Vojvodina in the areas of property and funding, means that the MPs of the Vojvodina Assembly have in advance assigned the task to the ruling coalition in their own state to monitor their thoughts on what and how the Vojvodina should do, or what the powers of an AP in Serbia, such as Vojvodina. On the side that puts complete asymmetricity with another AP, in life reality, but obviously in a formal-legal sense. How do we know this is a separatist act? Today there was a debate on whether the matter of the referendum, how it was raised in the Statute of Vojvodina, and in another way in this law on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, is the question of something that should turn on the red light bulb and that it tells us that in this way it was intended to regulate this area so that citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, as you say, with the capacity to decide on their territory in the referendum, that the team express attributes of sovereignty, because if someone expresses attributes of sovereignty, then it means that they express the attributes of statehood. How do we come to that conclusion? Since we obviously can't prove ourselves with ministers, because they spin their story by pretending not to hear what we're saying. By repeating in the Statute of Vojvodina, it says that this right is realised on the basis of the statute, as a right to express the will of citizens and citizens of Vojvodina and put a point behind it. In other words, the Vojvodina statute addresses the referendum on the issue of Serbia's territory. Then the law allegedly saves the matter by saying that it is done by the statutes of Vojvodina, but in accordance with the law, and a confusion is made which creates a ambiguous provision that can, as it is seen in the debate, be interpreted as turning to whom and causing confusion. Why does someone have an interest in making a confusing norm, especially on a matter like this? Because there is a hidden intention. How do I know there's a hidden intention? Here's clear proof. It's not about pulling hair on two, three or four, as Minister Markovic says. This is about tearing up the whole hair, because these hairs are according to the statutes and by this law as much as you want. Here's a very simple example. Article 21 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said very simply: "In front of the Constitution and the law all are equal". This is a clear and coherent norm. Article 69. The constitution says, in the area of social protection, that the rights of employees and their families to social security and insurance are regulated by law. So, the Constitution does not provide for the possibility that this right should be regulated by any sublegal act, and then, in Article 53 of the Law on the Powers of Vojvodina, it says nicely that the Vojvodina will work through its authorities in the field of social protection, and here it writes - in accordance with the law, I just don't know which law, probably this, unconstitutional, says that Vojvodina is doing the following things: "in accordance with material possibilities, other rights in the field of social protection, greater scope of rights than the rights laid down by law and more favourable conditions for their achievement, as well as other forms of social protection, if it has provided funds in the budget". What's he saying? This norm is directly dangerous for two reasons. The first is that it puts Serbian citizens in an unequal position. This means that the citizens of Nis, Kragujevac, Leskovec, Vranja, Valjev, Pirota, Cačka and other places in Serbia will enjoy if the Vojvodina budget gives them conditions, a smaller amount of rights or some rights will not be enjoyed at all, compared to those of Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina. That's what it says here. So it doesn't say anything but that. That's one reason. Perhaps the citizens of Serbia living in Vojvodina would find this attractive because they might say - we may be given some rights in the area of social protection, which other Serbian citizens will not enjoy, as it cuts other citizens of Serbia, we are important. The problem is that, in addition to the opposition and inequality of the citizens before the law and the Constitution, as provided for by Article 21, in addition to violating that right, this is an obvious lie, because this norm is one of the classic norms that are being bribed and bribed by citizens of Serbia living in the territory of Vojvodina, so that perhaps, my God, would agree to such an adjudication. It's your cover. You want me to read you another provision of article 58 with the exact same problem, which says, "Special protection of mother and child", is also regulated by the constitutional provision on human and minority rights, in that part of the Constitution that regulates it, protected by the provision of article 21 on equality of law. He says this: "Ap Vojvodina through its organs, in accordance with the law, provides for and provides additional and supplementary rights and protection, i.e. a higher degree of protection for families, rights of children and pregnant women, mothers during maternity leave and single parents with children, in line with the programme of the democratic development of Vojvodina, with measures for its implementation." They don't even call the law here. There's no appeal to the Constitution or to the law. Direct matter is being taken over, which can only be regulated by law under the Constitution, in order to regulate Vojvodina on the principle of the inequality of citizens in Serbia's territory. How is it possible that Vojvodina can establish a public enterprise for the National Park "Fruška Gora"? The National Park "Fruška Gora", the so-called "Fruška Gora", is the national park of Serbia. What public enterprise is part of Serbia's territory for the realisation and preservation of the value of the National Park "Fruška Gora"? You've got as much as you want. I didn't purposely tell you about those other norms we talked about in public in the last few days. Why? To prove to you thesis of separatism. When you have one norm of which the ministers have been skillfully subdued, decided to disabling what the MPs of the opposition say when it is explained why the referendum here is described as anti-constitutional, because it contains elements of statehood, then I must tell you that if you leave one standard ambiguous, and the law and statutes are filled with unequivocally anti-constitutional norms of that kind and those contents that do not give public interest at first sight, because it is not immediately spoken of at first, then you come to a very simple conclusion - that by writing such standards there was a certain intention. If it wasn't for that kind of intent, it wouldn't have been written like this. What's a regulation like this for, if you don't have any hidden intentions? However, this hidden intention has already become open in the meantime. The idea is, therefore, that through this act everything is possible to prepare psychologically, even formally, in some way, although it is against the constitution, the ground for tomorrow's requirements for the open separation of Vojvodina. It's an idea. One political party, whose representative is not presently, is probably no longer interested in this, because there is no direct transmission, she said very openly - we don't like the Serbian Constitution, we don't agree with the way it was brought in, regardless of what it is saying, but at least they're speaking openly about it - we want it and so we want Serbia to look, we don't care what most Serbian citizens think about it, it's our project task, whoever gave it to us and even if people say it openly. The danger of living with you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, is that you're telling the truth every day, what you're talking about and what you're doing, what you're trying to do in a perfiduous way to citizens to plant a cowardly egg through these laws and through the Statute of the Vojvodina. To end up in a situation where the state, as such, fails, by the fact that the government that is not in a state in Serbia's territory, not in Vojvodina, in Serbia's territory, to provide minimal social protection for citizens, economic and economic prosperity, is unable to define the priorities of economic policy, is unable to bring ordinary budget rebalancing because you have gone to an abnormal deficit from which you cannot come out. You are violating the Constitution and the law from day to day, arresting the directors of public enterprises for spending something beyond the projected funds for one company during the year, and here Diana Dragutinovic is spilling pearls that it is no problem for the state of Serbia to be in a deficit greater than allowed for 15 days or 20 days. What are you talking about? How do you run the country? It's a shame, but tomorrow we'll have a chance to continue this conversation, when we talk about the Duke's statute, so we'll see whose argument is here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31459	Twelve minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. There are four minutes and 10 seconds left. National MP Jelena Travar-Miljević has a word after her, MP Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31460	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will likely, for who knows which time, repeat that the constitutional basis exists in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of such a law, which is in Articles 12, 97, 177, 178, 183 and 187. Otherwise, I would point out that the increase in the jurisdiction of lower territorial units, which remain subordinated to higher administrative instance, is actually decentralisation. This is what is sought by the draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. As a member of the G17 Plus party, which advocates decentralisation and even regional development, I would point out that the G17 Group of MPs plus will make a positive statement in the voting day. In the world, 95% of democratically formed states are made up of decentralised units, whose bodies are formed directly and freely by the will of the citizens exposed to the elections. decentralisation is part of a broader process of differentiation of administrative institutions and organisations. Experiences collected in countries around the planet have confirmed that decentralisation has a positive impact on the better lives of citizens through political stability, public service performance, which leads to a faster flow of information and easier obtaining necessary documents, equality of citizens and equal starting positions, as already spoken by my colleague Zeljko Ivanji, better economic opportunities for macroeconomic stability. If we pay attention to the proposal for a law establishing the competence of the AP Vojvodina, we will see that already in the basic provisions we are talking about interregional co-operation, that Vojvodina, as a region in which European principles and values are traditionally nurtured, can be a member of European and global associations of the region, as well as that the AP Vojvodina concludes inter-regional agreements within its competences, which certainly contributes to economic progress and improving the exercise of human rights. Also, basic provisions refer to the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which is the territory of units of local self-government, in its geographical areas Banat, Bacak and Srem, established by law. Of course, when I mention my Banat, my Vojvodina and my Republic of Serbia, I can't help but mention that there are three of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Banat, which are Žitište, Nova Crnja and Plandište, and that I certainly believe that by applying the already adopted Law on Equal Regional Development, by implementing positive measures under this law and fundamental decentralisation, I can improve my status in the coming period. I am also sure that no one knows better than the citizens of Zitiste, that no one better than the citizens of Kragujevac or Nis knows these interests and that they will always know that they decide what is best. The draft law sets out issues of regional importance in the following areas: spatial planning and development, agriculture, water, forestry, fishing, fishing, tourism, catering, spas and spas, environmental protection, industry and crafts, road, river and rail transport and road planning, fairs and other business events, education, sport, culture, health and social protection, public information, science and technological development, business and privatisation, mining and energy, local self-government, the exercise of human and minority rights. In particular, I would point out point 15) in Article 10, in which the AP Vojvodina, through its bodies, develops administrative capacities of the province's administration and local self-government, with the aim of using EU structural and cohesion funds. Why did I point out that member? Because the good results of decentralisation are largely related to the internal capacities of the administration at local level and its capacity to implement reform measures. Reform measures, such as measures that provide citizens with and provide better conditions for life, are the possibility of reaching the necessary documents and information faster. The adoption of this law certainly represents another step towards Serbia's decentralisation. We all remember that this year the Law on Equal Regional Development was adopted, that according to the law mentioned, the Republic of Serbia is divided into statistical regions and, of course, in accordance with the nomenclature of statistical territorial units, which is certainly one of the basic steps towards decentralisation and the creation of conditions for a better life for all of us. I can't help but mention that the G17 Plus party itself has advocated Vojvodina as a European region of European Serbia, which is one model for further development both in Vojvodina as regions and in the development of the Republic of Serbia as a decentralised state. One society must make its full contribution to transition processes, especially in respect of human and minority rights, the development of tolerance in the multinational and multi-confessional community, the care of diversity, respect for tradition, culture and customs of all national communities living in it, the development of good neighbourly relations and inter-regional and cross-border co-operation, the development of local self-government, with the aim of creating modern, well-organised and economically strong local communities, the transformation and development of the overall economy and agriculture, according to the specificities of the regions themselves, with respect to individual freedoms. All of these are certainly the principles that the G17 Plus party itself stands for.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31461	Six minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word of the Messenger of the people is Gojko Radic, and after him is the messenger of the people Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31462	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the legal framework for the adoption of the law on the transfer of powers of the AP Vojvodina and the statutes of the AP Vojvodina are provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia from Articles 176 to 187, where autonomous provinces are intended to be responsible only for issues which can be achieved in a meaningful manner within the autonomy of the province, in which the Republic is not competent. The history of the AP Vojvodina or, as it was called in the not-so-too-long past, the Serbian Duchy is deliberately marginalized today and deliberately not potentiated. The current minority member of the ruling Vojvodina coalition called Serbia's war prey. On the contrary, it is the fundamental eternal struggle of the Serbian and other Slovenian lives, primarily of the rebel, to unite with Serbia, and to be crowned by unification in the New Sad Assembly in 1918. Therefore, the Vojvodina law must take care of the weightings, as well as to demonstrate the specificities of this area, all in order to improve the economic, cultural and overall development of society and the lives of all citizens living in Vojvodina. Does the proposal for this law of Vojvodina provide assumptions for the better life of its citizens in the composition of the Republic of Serbia? Of course not, but the term autonomy of the province defines the Constitution as the autonomous territory of the community determined by the Constitution. The draft statutes outside the framework are trying to identify as a region, with elements of statehood within the state of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia has exclusively international legal sovereignty and subjectivity. In accordance with the Constitution, as a single state, it can access international institutions and organisations, such as the EU or others. By the proposed statute or the law of Vojvodina, it still does not have the same membership only, and it can join all interstate and international institutions as a region and conclude international contracts, which is contrary to Article 181. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The draft statute, which provides for Vojvodina to form an integral part of the unique cultural-civilisation and economic-geographical space of Central Europe, tries to create the concept of the Danube monarchy, the idea creator of Otto Von Habzburg, and the restitution of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, to which Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Germany and Poland are added. This provision in the draft statutes, or in the legal transfer of jurisdiction, suggests that any integration of the Danube monarchy is better, only to remove the AP Vojvodina from the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. This is not only counter-constitutional, it's opposed to common sense. Representatives of the ruling majority do not care at all that the AP Statute of Vojvodina is a sublaw that cannot be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and must be in accordance with the law of the Republic of Serbia. They, regardless of the consequences of the adoption of this Statute, It conveys competences, which is a split wedge in the tissue of the state of Serbia, when one such blade has already penetrated deep into the state-terroral tissue of the Republic of Serbia in the area of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, whose cry was hidden in the communist SFRJ Constitution of 1974, as it gave all the elements of statehood to the socialist autonomous provinces. Proposers of such a statute and transfer of jurisdiction are trying to fulfill who knows what kind of secret pre-election promises. Often with imaginary provisions of the statutes, they try to cloud the establishment of the 1974 SFRY Constitution. With regard to the legal position of the AP Vojvodina where it is visible? Well, in Article 3 of the Vojvofine Statute, which defines that it consists of the geographical areas of Backa, Banat and Srema, which is totally contrary to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that the territory of the AP Vojvodina consists of tax-listed territorial municipalities. Many members of the proposed statute must be changed because they suffer criticism of the introduction of elements of the state into autonomy. For example, Article 9 suggests a symbol of the AP of Vojvodina's coat of arms and flags, which do not reflect the province's membership to Serbia. The same finding of unsustainableness would also refer to Article 10 of the Statute, the definition of Novi Sad as the capital, if at the last moment it had not been rephrased. The anti-lawful and illegal provision of Article 17 of the proposed Statute, which provides for the Vojvodjan Academy of Sciences and Arts, is because of the provisions of Article 183. The constitution, where taxful issues of the province's importance are listed, does not provide for the identification of science and culture as activities transferred to the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Further provisions are controversial to provide that the province determines its assets, as the province's assets and local self-government are determined exclusively by law. The proposal discusses the position of national communities, which the Constitution does not know, but knows the concept of national minorities, thus trying to enter the element of national minorities as elements of the province's constitutionality. Article 26 of the proposal, which determines the language in official use, in addition to Serbian and Cyrillic letters, also determines the application of the Latin letter, which the Constitution does not know. He is a particularly interesting member of the 28th to introduce a permanent mixed commission composed of representatives of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina. The President-in-Office of the People's Parliament, the time available for your parliamentary groups has been used. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31463	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the principles on which this government is formed, by the assessment of the SPS MPs, our constructive approach to all issues that will improve the position of our citizens in our country and open new perspectives for our society, I would like to say that the MEPs, as the right-hand side of the ZES list, will support the law on confirming the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Except for what was political demagogy, I think that today we have heard quite significant and legal and political arguments about the general and comprehensive decentralisation of the country, but also a lot of demagogy and indeed very political messages that aim to bring confusion among the citizens of Serbia, and that the state is created in the country, that this is an announcement of secessionism and that we, as enlightened nationalists, are also breaking our own country. Our own state is being broken down in a number of ways. Its own state is broken and misunderstood by the time that society is in, by not understanding what is happening to the world and the life beyond the world. A big question mark has been asked primarily by opposition parties why Vojvodina, with its province autonomy or region, would, as the proposed text here calls it, conclude inter-regional and inter-state agreements. A declaration on regionalism in Europe from the European Regional Assembly was adopted in 1996, and then there were some 300 regions in the EU where some 400 million people lived. Today, gentlemen, in 2009, 13 years after the adoption of this declaration. Unfortunately, what is good in EU countries has not reached many people's representatives, and they are today trying to confuse the public in Serbia with the claims that, who goes to regionalism, he is also going to tear up the state. I don't know that the only country that's going through the creation of regions that have extraordinary interregional, international co-operation in many fields, I don't know that one single region, give me an example, has secededed from its own state. No, something else happened. These regions have established extraordinary and economical, and cultural, and sports, and scientific and all kinds of co-operation. EU countries and their regions are uniform economic development. When you move from region to region, you don't get the impression, like here in our country when you go from municipality to municipality, that you've moved from country to country, that you've gone from planet to planet. If you go to eastern Serbia or southern Serbia, to a large extent and to central Serbia, without talking about old Rasko, there are also areas of Vojvodina with demographic discharge and areas where, I almost passed through Bolovac-Književec, there are abandoned villages, where people who used to live here have thorns, nettles and trees. You have the impression that life has stopped. But there is something, and it is good that today the representatives of the government have promised this to the Serbian public, and I think they have promised the SPO, and even though we are part of the ruling majority we will keep them for that promise, they have promised that this is a start, with the law we passed several months ago, a comprehensive decentralisation of the country. We from the SPO are convinced that the law on determining the jurisdiction of Vojvodina was brought in as part of other legal documents that govern the country's comprehensive and fundamental decentralisation, that today many debates, which had a lot of grounds, would not have their basis. For many reasons, it can be said, respecting the absolutely necessary need for Vojvodina to get its responsibilities, the powers of the central government to descend to the province level in all the segments in which the law has regulated it, why not go into the process of decentralisation of the comprehensive and why and the citizens of the Forest, where I come from, do not have their forest development bank, why do they not have the main administrative centre, why the whole state is not so arranged? We in the SPO insisted and asked the government several times, in which we participate, when are we going seriously into this comprehensive process? First of all, the political parties from Vojvodina were well organized. Vojvodina is Serbia's European locomotive, in many ways it should be a role model for the rest of Serbia, because it is rich, because it is much better organised and that awareness and perseverance in the exercise of its decentralisation rights resulted in one such law. We believe that the government should not propose laws only under this type and positive political pressures, but rather that the process should start from the government itself, not because of the party issue and our programme regarding the decentralisation of Serbia as a whole, but because when we enter into this comprehensive process, believe me, for many ends it can be too late. Serbia today is dramatically in a difficult position. All red lights are on in EU countries when the region's development rate is one to two, alarms are on. We have a degree of unbalanced development, according to some indicators one to 15, officially recognised by the Ministry, and according to some indicators, even one to 21. In any case, the degree of regional underdevelopment in Serbia is convincingly the most negative in all of Europe. As a result, I believe, not only is it a mature consciousness, and it is good that today's ministers of the ruling coalition have expressed a clear political will to enter a comprehensive process of decentralisation of the country. I haven't, as a graduate lawyer with a legal exam, seen any provision that's anti-constitutional. Of course, there have been many manipulations of legal-political and that the fact that the Constitution provides only guidelines for the adoption of laws that will regulate a more detailed area, if they would ask the Constitution to predict everything that needs to be prescribed by some law, then the Constitution would have to have several thousand pages and would not be the Constitution. That's why you can always manipulate something that's not foreseen in the Constitution, and it's in the law, it's against the constitution. Of course, we, as the right hand side of the ZES, would never vote for a single provision that is against the constitution and, of course, I think that even in the Vojvodina itself, following the transfer of jurisdiction and the adoption of this law, regions should be created by the traditional division that exists. It is the Backi, Sremski and the Banatski region and then, when the middle level of government is formed, local self-government's competences should also be increased. Only when the whole of Serbia was divided, before the war, were the banks, Leskovac, who then called the Serbian Manchester, had 35 municipalities, then we can enter the process of forming and new municipalities, increasing the jurisdiction of municipalities and regions, and the central government should not be as people are experiencing it, or colleagues who today have expressed the view that with only one strong hand from one centre should be managed throughout life in Serbia. We don't think that's the case. So it was only in the time of dictatorship and it could never come out for good. What Europe is today and EU principles are balanced, balanced, politicistic, uniform regional development. The SPO wants to see such a Serbia. In voting day, we'll vote for this bill. No matter how much we're part of the ruling majority, believe us, we'll be persistent in decentralizing the entire state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31464	Ten minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning, in an extremely inspired two-minute statement by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said that this bill, among other things, was entrusted to the AP Vojvodina by a significantly greater number of responsibilities from the framework of the Republic's body's work than was the case so far. This is what the law says, but this isn't true. First of all, it's not true that this is about trusting certain powers, on the one hand. On the other hand, this law is clearly and loudly called the law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, and that's what we've been trying to do all day today, and during that short period while the ministers here were in front of TV cameras active, we tried to communicate with them to explain to them, and they understood that, of course, but they were pretending not to understand. Both the Prime Minister and the ministers refused to admit it, and we Serbian radicals also claim to all colleagues who spoke, who say they do not see where this law is and tomorrow's statute is contrary to the RS Constitution. It is also possible that some colleagues who participate in the work have read this authority and have not gone too deep. I'll read it once again, first of all for a stenogram, perhaps for the sake of the public, if someone sees the continuation of this session at some point, but in any case, because of the fact that this is a historic session, we are contemporaries in the last 10 years of breaking one state, then another state, then the secessions of CG, so all this is happening, the occupation of 15% of Serbia's territory in KIM, and that's why we think that, hopefully, God will survive and we'll live for a while. But God forbid what this law provides and what this statute provides, but we're afraid it will, and so we think it's good to say, to state the views of the SRS, and it's good for others to express their views and to convince us of something they don't believe in themselves. So this bill is not in accordance with Article. 1, 2, 4, 8, 9, 137, 179, 182, 183, 185. The RS Constitution. In addition, both this law and tomorrow the statutes, or the bill of law, the MPs in this House, have been given a rather pointless debate because MPs cannot change anything in this text of the law. Why? Because we got this by principle take it or leave it. Because we don't think this law could have come to the agenda at all and couldn't and couldn't be passed, and I'll explain later why. Even if this law were possible and had a constitutional basis, then the order had to be completely different. It had to be passed this law, so that it would be published in the Official Messenger, so that it would come into force, so that a proposal for a statute, which would be in line with that law, would be adopted by the MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. What do we have today? We have a bill of law and a draft statute for the second time, in line with the bill. The question is how much and of course we're going to see tomorrow in the debate, we're going to show that it's not really. If you would like, if you would like the representatives of the government, who are absent of course, and if you would like representatives of the parliamentary majority in the voting day to vote for some amendments, which are submitted to this law, you simply cannot do so - because any change to this law would require a change to the draft statute. The statute had already been changed, past the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, because it was simply amazing, now there is no Minister Markovic to show legal knowledge and to ask him - where he saw the possibility of once passing the bill to the National Assembly, before the Assembly examines him, that someone might say: return my rags, I will no longer play, so that the statute disappears somewhere between Belgrade and Novi Sad, and then some new text of the statute appears and that, my God, with a legal-technical editorial. First, the legal-technical redistribution can never work for parliament. That's what the board of directors does. Secondly, the legal-technical editorial can't be a question - is there a Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts or does it not exist? The legal and technical question can't be - is Novi Sad the capital or not? The legal-technical editorial cannot be - will judicial exams be conducted in a special way in Vojvodina, etc.? So, this is about you, from the regime, being representatives of the regime, above all, that this has been messed up by the back-to-back, because these friends of yours from the EU, probably Jelko Kacin, the one who welcomed you with the ladder, probably he intervened to hurry up with this law. Then it's you, give it a rest, it'll be done, it'll vote, you've got a congregation majority, you've got LDP to help you with that, when this law is at stake, and you don't care -- what the consequences of this law will be. We Serbian radicals and how much we care, and that's why we want to draw attention to some of the most characteristic members of this law. If I were right, when I said earlier that this was just a line running and that this was already a done deal and that it couldn't change, the evidence is a member of the 88th bill. Article 88, I think that this formulation and this norm exist in no law at all since the laws are written anywhere on the globe, says: "The competent republican authorities are obliged to take all necessary measures, including the provision of the necessary financial resources to take the new powers of the AP Vojvodina, as set out by this law at the latest until the start of the application of this law." My people, and those who are not lawyers, and lawyers are clearly clear, as well as those who are not -- can you bring the brain to this formulation -- that someone should say that everything has to be prepared for the application of a law that was only days ago, November 6th, only 18 days ago came to parliament for consideration and today is just being debated? So, amazing. According to this law, Bojan Pajtic also formed the Vojvodine Development Bank, in line with the proposal, and contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is the Metals Bank. I spoke the other day about Mr. Stevan Shogorov, who is a member of the board of directors of the Metals Bank, and he is known for that affair - which his daughter Jelena owns the university, and Mom Mira, his wife is a state property, otherwise under protection, a monument, the Institute for the Protection of Culture, gave her daughter for the opening of the university. Dad stevan was on the accreditation committee, when daughter elena got permission to work on that college of hers. I am now referring to him because he is also on this committee, council or whatever it is called, about regionalisation, where among others Gordana Comic and Bosko Ristic -- I read it the other day. So this Mr. Shogorov is on the Governing Board of the Bank which could not possibly have been formed under the Constitution, and this law has not yet foreseen it. What are the characteristic members of this law? Of course, Article 3 of which speaks of interregional co-operation, Article 4, which says that the territory of the AP Vojvodina protects the territory of units of local self-government, in its geographical areas - Backa, Banat and Srem, established by law. Now you've been talking all day and the ministers convince us that there's no essential regionalization here, that there's no pre-work for anyone at all, God forbid, future secession, for some secessionist ideas. Of course there is. Can anyone explain to us, of course there is no one from the government - what is in this case and where in this case will be the local self-government of the municipality of Zemun, the municipality of Surcin? Is it going to be part of New Belgrade, part of Palilu, sheep, Borch, Krgnac? That's Banat, and that's the other one. Does this mean that you're making some kind of region, what was the ideal from Ante Starčević to Franjo Tudjman? Unfortunately, it looks like it. The city of Novi Sad, this is interesting, the representatives of the SPS tried, not today, but rather, in public to explain -- how they saved Vojvodina, or citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, because Novi Sad is not the capital, but is an administrative centre. It's just not true, and the citizens need to know. The town of Novi Sad is "the main, administrative centre and headquarters of the AP Vojvodina organ". This is a game of words and it's obvious that nothing has changed here. Here you have a member of the 6th to discuss the protection of the province's MPs and other officials. It's something completely irrelevant and something regulated by the constitution and the law, election laws. Today, the minister of education said that there is an Enlightenment Council at the level of the Republic of Serbia, that it is regulated by law, etc. And that's all true, but then there's the question -- what's this chapter 11 that's gonna do about education, which is about preschool, basic education, which is about an educational council that gives an opinion in the process of adopting curricula and programmes in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We had almost a case when this holiday was, so extended to the territory of all Serbia, except in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, related to this flu that was current or now, I don't know. He says - AP Vojvodina educates commissions and organises examinations for teachers, educators and professional associates. What does this mean, that is, this also refers to the passing of a judicial exam and the passing of an expert examination for the work of the state authorities? Today Minister Markovic said - if it looks like separatism to anyone, then it's an honor. I ask if this means, if you'll excuse me as a lawyer, so to speak, that someone who passes an expert exam in Belgrade or passes a judicial exam at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, he cannot be a judge in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? Mrs. Comic, you don't have to make such faces, it says here. As someone passed a judicial exam on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, there can be no judge in the rest of the Republic of Serbia. That's what it says here, and that's what we draw attention to. You've predicted sanitary surveillance. It's a confidential business that regulates Article 137. The RS constitution, which today the ministers avoided talking about. Yes, entrusted transactions based on Article 137. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is possible, has existed since 1990, since the Constitution in Serbia, are applied and regulated by different laws. It is unconstitutional that it is impossible for this member to be codified, according to Minister Markovic. He'd better make an effort to codify criminal law, and this isn't the subject, it can't be the subject of codification. That's why we Serbian radicals claim that this is an unconstitutional law and that this law and statute, which is being spoken of tomorrow, will create the possibility that citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina will come into a situation that some hotheads, based on the law that you will adopt here, will, based on the statutes that you will adopt here, come into a situation in a few years to think of taking them away from Serbia. This law is a legal framework for statehood. This law, I said this morning, as of Friday, when you plan to adopt this, means that since Friday, the AP Vojvodina will be a state in the state of Serbia. It is also in the opinion of the SRS inadmissible, unconstitutional. He who decides to defend this will one day have to answer to the Criminal Court, and to the criminal council, and above all, to the citizens of Serbia, to the history of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31466	16 minutes of MP time was used. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I must note that this session is not regular. You know Article 87...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31468	National MP, this member has already been given as an example of being baptized and has been said not to be. Do not abuse the right to Article 8... (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Where are the ministers? ) People's MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dragan Todorovic win. I'm warning you that's... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: We do not throw, we ask the most polite. No, you're throwing away the People's Messenger and that's why you're giving the warning measure. This way I warn you not to do so, as well as not to abuse the right given under Article 100(1). The way this session works together according to the Rules of Procedure is that we all cooperate, but if we think that freedom is given words and abuse given words, then we misread the Rules of Procedure, which is unacceptable. The People's Messenger Srdjan Mikovic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Sreto Peric, and the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31469	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, we've been here all day...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31470	National MP Todorovic, I warn you one last time not to leave me with another space but to give me penalties for misbehaving and breach of order at a session of the National Assembly, so this is the last warning. Continue, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31471	Ladies and gentlemen, today we often mention this book that I am currently holding in my hand, which is the Constitution of the RS, and we all call for constitutional obligations to be fulfilled. It should be true that if, in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, there is, in a whole series of members, from Article 176, in conclusion with Article 187 of the whole series of provisions governing the territorial order, or the province autonomy, then we need to start from the fact that this should be regulated and implemented in practice. Not just on paper for some autonomy, but practically on false autonomy. We should advocate real autonomy, and also in line with this book, with the RS Constitution, for a single and comprehensive Serbia, not disintegrated Serbia. It is the law of jurisdiction, including the statute we will discuss tomorrow, that confirms the integrity and unity of the RS. At the same time, it will benefit the rapid economic development of both Vojvodina and other parts of Serbia. The Law on Jurisdictions has been brought into full agreement with the Constitution, but none of us to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has the power to appreciate if anyone questions the constitutionality of any provision of the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Also, in my colleagues' discussions so far, it is resented that in several places, as in this law, as much as in the act that we are going to discuss tomorrow, citizens are mentioned. I'm pointing out that this is Article 2. The RS constitution as a carrier of sovereignty is a designated citizen, because sovereignty comes from citizens and no one can claim sovereignty from citizens. I would not because of this, and precisely because of the rights of citizens, because of human minority rights and freedoms, which are good works and this proposal for a law establishing jurisdiction more detailed than the Constitution, precisely these provisions concerning human rights, civil rights, because from Articles 18 to 81, practically a third of the Constitution of the RS concerns these fundamental human and civil rights. In discussions of my distinguished colleagues, it has been said that citizens feel what will happen by adopting a bill on determining jurisdiction, and yet here I claim that citizens should not feel, but should also know this very discussion in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should have certain doubts about divorce. Because it is inadmissible that here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the AP Vojvodina will decide, for example, on the network of courts in the AP Vojvodina. I explicitly define this bill to determine the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina that the AP Vojvodina only proposes a network of courts. If we are paranoid about the possibility of proposing something, which is the right of every fellow MP here in the National Assembly to propose something and this assembly to decide, I don't think such discussions contribute to deepening trust in everything that happens during the discussion at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, given the fact that there are still a number of members of parliament who have been registered for discussion, I would refer only to Article 9, which is the position of Article 9, paragraph 3. The draft law, where it is said that unless the competent authority of the Republic of Slovenia adopts a law enforcement regulation within the time limit laid down by that law, the AP Vojvodina may, in the areas referred to in Article 1(1) of its Act, temporarily regulate the enforcement of laws in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I believe that this is an extremely useful provision, where, practically, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the author of this bill, allows the possibility of not waiting and not sleeping, but to be able to meet life and needs. I only want on one case, and on the case of local self-government, to come from Panchev, to point out that in time, in 2004, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Science and the Environment, should adopt a regulation on emission limit values, which can poison people in the environments where people live. Within six months, the ministry at the time did not propose that regulation and just the authorities of local self-government were heading in this direction to adopt the emission limit rules in the framework of constitutional and legal powers. Among other things, only in the area of local self-government in Pancheva has helped to meet life and needs and protect people from pollution, in the area of air pollution in Panchev. In the hope that after a comprehensive discussion of this draft law in principle, then, after reviewing the amendments submitted, we will nevertheless come to the conclusion that the Law on Jurisdictions practically confirms and implements the obligations of the Constitution, that all those who are criticising today and who will eventually criticise and make some proposals in two days, I suggest that all my fellow MPs to adopt the Law on Jurisdictions be appointed in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31472	Eight minutes and 35 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The People's MP Sreto Peric has the word, followed by the MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, many Ministers in absentia, we have on the agenda a bill laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. This, colleague Mikovic, I am speaking to you because you spoke to me before, a very dangerous act. I'll talk about him with several aspects, of course, he allows and implies. Today, as you have taken this inconclusively, the fact that today the Prime Minister has exhibited, pardoned five minutes and 34 seconds related to this bill, so that ministers who were present during one part of the day would begin to abuse time. It's an honor to them. I need to look back and tell you what this act is. This is the price. What price? The price of Boris Tadic's victory in the presidential election. Now someone needs something to pay and pay back. I'll show you how right I am, analyzing individual members, how contrary they are to themselves, how incompatible they are with the Constitution, and how expensive they are to the lives of the citizens of Vojvodina, whom you are reportedly overly concerned about. This isn't the lead performer, Nenad Canak, as many want to play. He's one of the subcontractors. What he said today - enforcement of the tax obligation is the greatest separatism, period. So, carrying out tax obligations is the greatest separatism. (Glass from the O.R.: Patriotism said. If there is even the greatest patriotism, you are in power for nine years. I just want to tell you, I told you on purpose, to hear your comment, you've been in power for nine years. The participation in tax payments is low. For what? Except we're paying through goods and services, but what we're doing is very small. How and why? Because the tycoons aren't in the tax system. You have no power and no power to charge from them what they would have to pay for. Other citizens are in no position to pay, as they have not worked for years, counterpart Mikovic. They don't have obligations, they don't have options, they don't have anything to pay from. You do not lead to the creation and strengthening of patriotism, which should be the obligation of every citizen, especially us who sit here, and especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but rather bring the opposite. We must raise our suspicions when we have such a dangerous act in front of us. We haven't forgotten your 2000 statements that the question of KiM is a democratic issue, which you will decide only to come to power. And you've come, and we have the consequences that we have. I'm not saying this time that this problem and that question is easy, but when you said it was a democratic issue, we in the SRS knew it was a big and big problem of this country. Now you're saying it only brings well-being to the citizens of Vojvodina. Why didn't you try to say these rights that the citizens of Vojvodina have, why didn't you try it, we don't agree with that, I'll explain how we see decentralisation, why you didn't give these rights to the citizens of the governing Machovan district, from your eight municipalities, that they could decide on their development, that they had their own development bank, and that everything that you stand for with them was experimental and then go into the realisation of that issue in Vojvodina? We know what the constitutional obligation is, and we want to stick to it, but here we had one reverse move schedule. I guess she should have passed this law first, then the Duke's statute. Here was the reverse, the Statute of Vojvodina was adopted in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and then on the basis of this act, such a still incomplete, draft of this law was made. Just a few things, or a few provisions of this bill, I'm going to comment. The AP Vojvodina, as a region where European principles and values are traditionally nurtured; you insult the rest of Serbia. I think that in Kragujevac, where the chairman of the SRS District Committee and one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, are fostered by world, European and Serbian standards, but here you exclude everyone else. Of course, I think they're being nursed in other Serbian cities, but you're also shutting down all other cities or areas, and you're giving that right only to the Vojvodina. In Article 4, you say - the territory of the AP Vojvodina cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens expressed in a referendum and in accordance with the law. The referendum is important under certain conditions. Now the ministers here explain this bill - so they have the right to local self-government. Yes, they do. You can't have one local community without a referendum to join another local self-government, but it's absolutely harmless and there's no problem. There can be a lot of problems from here. What else can the AP Vojvodina do? It can establish an AP Vojvodina development bank, in accordance with a law governing the establishment, business and organisation of banks. Of course, you will now say, in accordance with the law. Yes, according to the laws, but it will be an AP development bank and it has no possibility of any other area or region, as you used to say. What's the AP Vojvodina doing? It agrees with the decision to expand the work of institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia. Doesn't it seem to you that it is illegal and illegal, that it gives the AP Vojvodina consent to what the founder of the Republic of Serbia is? You have this in several provisions – Article 33 and Article 34 of the proposal of this law. Article 43 speaks of cinematography and film art. It may not be very interesting, but just to show you how it won't be what we've been listening to today. ‘AP Vojvodina, through its authorities, in accordance with the law governing the area of cinematography, shall carry out inspection. “ The inspection is carried out as a confidential business. All right, the other local self-governments have that option. But what's next? "The fees and fees collected under the rules in the area of cinematography are the budgets of the AP Vojvodina for taxpayers whose head office is located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina." So the income is the AP of Vojvodina, and is financed by the Republic of Serbia. ‘Social care for health at the level of the AP Vojvodina, which includes measures to provide and implement healthcare against the interests of citizens in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, leads the AP Vojvodina, brings specific health care programmes for certain categories of population, i.e. types of diseases specific to the AP Vojvodina’. This is interesting to me – specific to the AP Vojvodina. Of course, I'm not a professional doctor, but I've consulted people with a basic profession. There are no specific diseases there, they can appear in that part, that they are not there somewhere in the other part of Serbia, but they are not specific to that part as a disease, as a phenomenon. Article 59: ‘The Director of the Regional Fund shall appoint the Directors of the subsidiaries of the Republic Fund which are educated in the territory of the AP Vojvodina’. He's on retirement insurance. So the head of the circuit fund appoints branch directors. When it comes to the National Employment Service, if one of you follows, Article 66 of Title 4 - Director of the Province Service, according to a public competition, proposes the Director of the National Service, the candidate for the selection of branch directors educated in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. There is something I can’t agree with even my colleagues, because this is where “the competencies in other areas, ” Article 74. It is said: “It proposes a network of courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina.” Can anyone explain to me, since there is no one from the ministers, perhaps one of the colleagues from the ZES parliamentary group can, and on what grounds does the network of courts suggest on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, when we adopted the network of courts here in the Republic Parliament in 2008? How is it possible now to establish a new network in the AP Vojvodina? Article 88 is what I have linked to cinematography – the competent republican authorities are obliged to take all necessary measures, including the provision of necessary financial resources, to take on new powers of the AP Vojvodina. That's not at all controversial. The Republic of Serbia should help and participate in the financing of all towns and municipalities in Serbia, not only the AP Vojvodina. But what happens next? The income stays out there somewhere. Practically, the state of Serbia should finance those who do not plan, and we do not know from here until when, to be one solid and complex and permanent part of this territory. When we talked about two laws that were held at the third regular session of this session, about a limited or maximum number of persons employed at the republican level and at the local level, that so-called. The middle level or the province level, no one touched that, which means it's not true for Bojan Pitiæ's administration any of these two laws. We will have a large number of employees, because there are about 153 entrusted jobs, which means that the number of officials in the province administration will not be able to do new additions and we will have a situation to receive new ones. Who will be admitted? Members of the parties who are in power in the AP Vojvodina and no one else will be admitted, and we will keep 28,400 here at the republican level. The citizens of the AP Vojvodina will have a much more expensive administration. So it is not true that it will be cheaper, it will have a much more expensive administration than the rest of Serbia's citizens. In several members, you talk about the need to further develop human and national minority rights, and that's fine. No one is better, and no one is more strong and more serious in favour of strengthening the rights, or even positive discrimination against members of national minorities. And what, for those who do not live in Vojvodina, who give them the right to do so? Therefore, this bill has a different attitude towards Serbian citizens. In the end, I have to say one great saying of Pushkin: we all think of ourselves as units and others as zeroes. We consider this law two zeroes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31474	14 minutes of MP time was used. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic, followed by the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31475	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this law absolutely has provisions that are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that none of the proposed provisions bounces and falls short of the spirit of the Constitution and what is as a constitutional guarantee given to citizens of Serbia, which is Article 12, which says Serbian citizens have the right to province autonomy and local self-government. The constitution also says the state government is limited to the rights of citizens to province autonomy and local self-government. During today's debate, we heard the praise and disputation of such a bill. Personally, I believe that Serbian citizens at this stage have the right to further democratisation through decentralisation. There is no fundamental democratisation of society without decentralisation of the state government. The right of citizens to province autonomy and the right of Vojvodina to regulate its autonomy by law and statute comes from the constitution itself. I expect other Serbian citizens will also exercise their constitutional right, wherever they live in Serbia. The formation of a mid-level government has a rational basis precisely in the principle of subsidiarity, which means that all citizens have the opportunity to have their institutions available to them and to exercise their rights in lower-ranking institutions, as far as possible. During the debate, those who have disputed, and now most of all there are none and thus show their relationship to this issue, which they have placed centrally and most significant in their political functioning during this year, argues that this law and the Statute of Vojvodina is now establishing the statehood of the AP Vojvodina. Absolutely unfounded are attitudes like this, and they serve only for daily policy, in order to scare citizens with very difficult words and assessments, and thus destabilise themselves in the position to fight for further decentralisation of society and for full participation of citizens in creating state policy, in creating a state budget, but also in setting priorities that are important for solving their life problems, wherever they live in Serbia. It's an incorrect thesis, expressed during the debate, that Vojvodina is given this law statehood. The elements and attributes of statehood are completely different. It's a matter of the military, a matter of internal affairs, a matter of diplomacy, a question of monetary spheres, an issue of money, that's what the state does. Everything that represents life and the resolution of state problems should, in principle, be brought down to the lower authorities of the government. Regional autonomy or region, or as they call it, the middle level of government, is the highest form of local self-government. This is the part of the local self-government that gets most of the transferred powers from the state authorities and most of the original competences supported by the original incomes that provide economic development, spatial planning and resource management, primarily state property and territory of a particular province. What is important to say is that political entities in Serbia have evolved in their political position. I must mention here Mr Samardzic's opening statement, which spoke on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group at the beginning of today's session, which in a very negative context mentioned regionalism. He also spoke of the region, as a concept, as nothing. Although in the DSS programme, which was adopted in 2003, the DSS said the regions were the basis of Serbia's state-run arrangement and they advocated a two-home parliament that would be composed of two homes, one of which would be the region's home. They advocated a 250-seat assembly, of which 100 MPs would be elected in the regions, and 150 would be elected directly to another home. They also predicted a number of regions, or six regions, and set up their seats, or capitals. The region's elected chief was scheduled. They had provided for legislative jurisdiction, but also for the government, all that was controversial during the debate over the Vojvodina statutes. Personally, I believe that the wording itself does not affect the essence of what is the autonomous right of Serbia's work to organise itself autonomously and to autonomously resolve its problems and issues under the law, and in accordance with the Constitution. The constitutionality of certain provisions of the law, as well as the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, was very often raised here. There should be no need for citizens to have any fear, because there is a Constitutional Court that assesses the constitutionality of each provision, but constitutionality is assessed exactly when the law enters into force. These topics were dealt with by experts, dealt with by politicians, all key subjects who currently create Serbia's political life and give an expert opinion based on the rich experience and domestic, traditional, on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but also on the European and world. It certainly took care here of the traditional position of the AP Vojvodina and that there are completely different examples and different contents of the province's powers than what the future regions, or provinces, will receive, as they are called in the state of Serbia. It is certain that Serbia is going through regionalisation, through decentralisation, to bring the government closer to the citizens, so that the exercise of power is more transparent and that citizens' problems in all parts of Serbia are resolved in line with the needs of citizens. The difference is in the situation of Serbian citizens living in the province of Vojvodina, in the city of Belgrade and the rest of Serbia. Serbia already has asymmetric decentralisation, in a way that does not correspond to citizens living in the rest of Serbia. Why? Citizens in the province of Vojvodina have more opportunities to exercise their rights, have more full protection of more organs and better and easier access to institutions. Also, the position of the people of Vojvodina has contributed to stronger economic development, which is commendable for Vojvodina and its citizens, but also represents one imbalance in the development of the rest of Serbia, which it did not have. In a political sense, there is also one imbalance, let's take an example of the current budget creation. In the political system, which is primarily based on party democracy, where parties are the owners of parliament's mandate, programme orientations are primarily political basis for the work of parliamentarians. So we can ask ourselves -- who are actually MPs representing in parliament, are they primarily citizens or parties or represent parties, and therefore citizens, where parties appear as intermediaries between citizens' interests, where parties articulate citizens' interests both through MPs or MPs in parliament, and represent interests? If we are talking about creating a budget, in the system of budgeting that is ruling with us, as a traditional system, which is not sufficiently transformed and democratisationd, therefore, this system of budgeting requires upgrades, requires greater participation, i.e. citizens' participation in budgeting and state policy. We don't have a chance to have the same impact on the items in the budget. Thus, during the budgeting process, Vojvodina, which can articulate its political, economic and social interests and put pressure on the government through its institutions in order to achieve certain items in the budget, will first and foremost respond to the duchy's interest. Also, the city of Belgrade, which holds the interest of two million residents, has institutions that can articulate it, has a more favourable position than citizens living in cities in the rest of Serbia. Citizens outside Belgrade and Vojvodina do not have institutions with capacity that can protect their interests. If we talk about project development, if we talk about projects financed from the Republic budget, you have municipalities that do not have enough capacity to participate in project creation and participate in competitions with projects in front of system institutions, or budgets. Does Vladik's Han, does Black Grass, Do Trade, Bosilegrad, Gajin Han, Bela Palanka, have the capacity to make projects that will receive funding from the budget? It's not enough budgeting to set a purpose for certain ministries, it's important where the money ends. Vojvodina, with such institutions, has the opportunity to fight for a better position in the budget. That's good, that's affirmative. I am only sorry that citizens in the rest of Serbia do not have the opportunity to build institutions under such a law, to organise themselves territorially, to manage the resources that are in their immediate environment. First of all, I want to say that those political options that advocate the abolition of Vojvodina's autonomy absolutely do not concern citizens' interests. Unacceptable arguments are that there will be expensive administrations at the middle level of government, because the middle level of government will take over the powers and thus people who have exercised powers or competencies so far in the name of the central government, i.e. the state government, the republican authorities. Therefore, the deployment of internal capacities will make an allocation of those perpetrators in terms of transfer of competence. It is also very important that for the first time we get a law that determines the position and jurisdiction of the province's institutions. It is also important that standards are respected in accordance with the European Charter of Regionalism, which is that the province's autonomy is guaranteed by the Constitution. We here, apart from the behaviour of the province's authorities, except for the assessment of the constitutionality of the acts brought by these authorities in the coming period, will also have constitutional protection of the position of Vojvodina. It is a very important partnership in the creation of state policy. The Duchess, under this law, becomes a partner. That's exactly what you see from those provisions that are often quoted here, but in the wrong way. It says here that Vojvodina will get justice, that's absolutely not true. Laws governing the judiciary, election and resolution of judicial holders will remain independent at the level of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors, and only those judges first elected and elected, will be first elected in the republican parliament for a period of three years. There is absolutely no argument that Vojvodina will get its own judiciary that would allude to the element of statehood. Because the province will have the opportunity to propose a network of courts, we need to explain to the citizens what it means. Vojvodina will have the opportunity to propose that a court is being organised in some place so that citizens do not go to distant courts that already exist, but the costs for this will be borne by the Vojvodina administration and this will be not at the expense of the citizens but, on the contrary, the institutions will be brought closer to the citizens, which is the sense of democracy. We will have to provide an electoral system that will ensure full participation of citizens in public affairs. In this way, as the election system in the AP Vojvodina is now defined, we have a good example of the approach of the institutions to the citizens. A double electoral system, i.e. mixed, because part of the MPs for the duchy parliament is elected directly and second indirectly, talks about the largely approaching institution and that the Vojvodina parliament will also be working in the interest of the people of Vojvodina. It is a good model for the Republic Parliament to be transformed on the basis of a different electoral system and for MPs to be elected on behalf and last name, to be responsible to citizens, to represent the interests of citizens in this parliament. That way, Southeast Serbia would not be the poorest part of Serbia. I often know how to say that poverty lives in the south and east of Serbia. A centralised state has just led to unbalanced development and there is no excuse for Serbian citizens living up to seven or eight times worse in the poorest municipalities than in Belgrade or in some parts of Vojvodina. It does not amnest the province of Vojvodina itself to carry out decentralisation and transfer of jurisdiction within the Vojvodina all the way to the citizens in its territory. This also obliges Vojvodina to deal strategically with the even development of municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. This law and the statute of the Vojvodina must not ignore the Vojvodina's obligation to age in the same way that all citizens of Serbia and all parts of Vojvodina live in the same way and have equal access to institutions. I want to remind you of another fact. Those who challenge this position of AP Vojvodina and decentralisation in this way took part in the adoption of the Regional Development Strategy. I would remind you that in the government, chaired by Vojislav Kostunica, they voted in favour of the Regional Development Strategy in January 2007. It is this regional development strategy that speaks of the need to build a legal and constitutional framework for Serbia's decentralisation and provide institutions with sufficient capacity and predicted that Serbia would regionalise on the basis of statistics. According to the Eurostat nomenclature, statistical regions as a basis for regionalisation, full political and administrative. I want to say that some are politically inconsistencies and all at the heart of the interests of Serbian citizens. Let me get this straight. decentralisation of Serbia through regionalisation is necessary. She's defined by the Constitution. Even those parties who advocate abolishing the province's autonomy voted in favour of a constitution guaranteeing the province's autonomy. Hence, inconsistencies serve only day - to - day political needs. The decentralisation and autonomy of the province are not a reason for separatism and do not lead to the disintegration of the state. The disintegration of the state can only cause bad policy, it can be a challenge to the behavior we've been hearing about here, which is, say, the human migration that represents the basis for international criminal justice responsibility. I think those who advocate such a policy are putting the very integrity of this country at risk and they should bear political and historical responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. No one in this house will answer for their position. I am saying here in front of all Serbian citizens that I am pushing for decentralisation, for regionalisation and for the introduction of a mid-level government to which part of the authority will be transferred, so that this authority is more transparent, in order to fight better and more fully for the interests of Serbian citizens, so that Serbian citizens can participate in the creation of state policy and in the conduct of public affairs and to control their representatives in this house whether they work on their interest and that they can freely call them off. Everything else is a demagogy and a lack of awareness of where the citizens want Serbia to go. The path of Europeanisation is also the way of democratisation and regionalisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31476	18 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by the People's Messenger Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers wherever they are, Serbia and the Serbian people live in virtual reality, so it's not hard for us in this House to imagine these virtual representatives of the government sitting there. I'll talk to them, maybe someone will answer. More than a year ago, the DS and its coalition partners in the AP Vojvodina, respectively, adopted a proposal for a statute in which, in our opinion, they had seized state powers which, according to the Serbian Constitution, they could not have obtained. I'll speak as a politician and as a lawyer. It is an answer to the position of Minister Markovic, who believes that all those who are not lawyers are not competent to speak here, and we express our political position, no matter what education they are. We follow our policy and we have the right to do so, especially when it comes to such a subject. I'd ask Mr. Markovic, he's probably looking at a delayed transmission, if he wanted to talk about how real kids would talk to a gynecologist or talk to Dad, whatever his dad was up to? The Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina was not mentioned nor was it seen when the professional public, but also political, and above all, the SRS, which held hundreds of stands in almost all inhabited places in the AP Vojvodina. The authorities came to the sense of the law and decided to invalidate all those powers already seized by the statutes. Nevertheless, the statute remains, in our opinion, unconstitutional. All the regime media speak of the law as a accompanying document, which is outrageous and unrecorded in parliamentary practice. By following the document, the law cannot possibly be. Cvetkovic receives Canka, accepts his amendments, aware that they are unconstitutional, but are therefore in agreement with Cank's memorandum on Vojvodina, which he long ago sent to Lord Karington and a conference on Yugoslavia. The memorandum announced that Vojvodina should be a confederate unit of Serbia, and unless Serbia accepts it, he says, an independent state. Canak openly then says that the territories north of the Sava and the Danube that Serbia has anecdoted, which is a quote, must be returned to the new state. The Serbian government passed the bill, and the Vojvodina parliament schedules a session in which it agrees with its statutes with the non-existent law, as the Serbian Parliament has not adopted it yet. Is that a fact? Yes, it is. I ask what are you turning the Serbian Parliament into? Isn't this your front so 126 can do whatever he wants? Does anyone care about the constitutional justice system? If the Constitution and the Assembly are suspended, then what is it? According to us and political theory, nothing but a coup. The regime does so very perfiduously, but the state of Vojvodina is the result of this government and the fulfillment of Cobel's promise, which has publicly threatened that after Kosovo, the internationalisation agenda comes to Vojvodina. Instead of co-ordination, which is established everywhere in the world between the state and its territorial autonomy, it is proposed to establish partnership relations between around the equal sides of the Republic or the Republic and the provinceal authorities. The establishment of a development bank, science, innovation and technological development is envisaged, although this is not foreseen by the Constitution. The right to conclude international contracts is also not provided for by the Constitution. The right to establish a representation abroad is also not foreseen. What's most important? The AP Vojvodina territory consists of geographical areas, as it is said, Srem, Banat and Baka, as if it were a geography for lower grades of primary school, so we can paintly explain what is what. I ask, here is Minister Markovic, perhaps he is, does he remember if there is a Law on Territorial Organization in this country and does he know that the meeting extends a little bit in Croatia and that Banat is a bit of a spread in Romania as well? Well, that's what shows us there's something else and there's something else going on behind the hill. Does anyone know that both Surchin and Zemun are geographical in Srem? It is not under the Law on Territorial Organization, but it is precisely why they are skipping such a provision and do not adhere to the Law on Territorial Organization, I mean the Government of Serbia that passed this law and to the Assembly of Vojvodina, which it provides in its statute, but mentions the geographical area. Who had this billboard that said, "New Sad, my capital"? Nenad Chanak. What Nenad Canak could do and he could do that if the DS wouldn't let him. He's always your spokeswoman. With two or three percent maybe the electoral body, it's always there for you. You point him out to say what you can't say, not to put a burden on you, but you accept all that. The province is transferred 166 responsibilities as trusted. In 36 matter the province is entrusted with inspection supervision, and in 19 resolution by appeal, which so far has been and under the Constitution, exclusively the jurisdiction of the Republic. That's what doesn't comply with the Constitution. 12 new institutions and public enterprises are being established. The number of workers in the administration is increasing, and you're supposed to be running some other policy. Even in the statutes, you predict a preamble. Doesn't that look like a constitution? Where you've seen any statutes that have preambles. I'll remind you what we Serbian radicals told you when the Omnibus law was passed. I will quote what Prof. Vojislav Seselj said on that occasion, because it is absolutely current and also applies to this law. Thus says Prof. Vojislav Seselj - the powers of the AP can only be determined by the Constitution, and the exercise of these powers can only be regulated by the Statute of the AP, not by the law that will be passed by the Republic Assembly. There are five basic institutions of the political system. You know he's very expert in the political system. It's a state, a federal unit, autonomy, a region and local self-government. He's, of course, talking about theory. Only the competences of local self-government can be determined by law. All other competences may be determined solely by the Constitution. If someone under the Constitution gets certain powers, then he does them himself within what the Constitution has given him. There must be no senior body of state or senior state institution to edit the area instead. As you can see, we didn't need this law if we wanted to stick to the Constitution and in case the statutes were in accordance with the Constitution. '"It is the meaning of autonomy, he gave me something of the Constitution and what the Constitution gave me not to give to anyone. No one can challenge me until the Constitution changes. 'Who now protects the Statute of the Duke? It's protected by Serbian radicals. He was protected by Vojislav Seselj. Therefore, the law cannot determine the jurisdiction of the AP, the law cannot even set up an AP. Only the Constitution can determine that there are autonomous provinces in Serbia, not only has the Constitution found that autonomous provinces exist in Serbia, but it has clearly named what the provinces are. This is your so-called. Omnibus, you're in two things by law. You are entering the Constitution because you are extending the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces, but you are also entering the rights of autonomous provinces that the Constitution has already given them directly. You're setting them up. You can't edit them. What the Constitution has given to autonomous provinces can only regulate the AP with its statutes and legal acts that are under the statutes, and you can be careful that it does not exceed its jurisdiction or achieve them in a way that is contrary to the Constitution and nothing more. Is there anything here that's controversial? There's nothing. The material that we have received, or act that we have received from the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, says that the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which is in line with the proposal for a law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, we provide you with a consolidated text. That law wasn't passed. How, then, is it possible for the statute to be in conformity with an existing law? How do you know this law will be passed in this National Assembly? It's hypothetical. Maybe it will be, and maybe it won't. What if it doesn't? Then what happens to the statute? Such ignorance is truly invisible and humiliating to all of us, no matter what business we do, no matter what we do in life, if we spent some time in this House we'd have so much experience knowing we weren't making these mistakes. Where is this Department of Law, where is this Minister of State Administration, the local self-government, to pay a little attention to these things, to recall some of the laws he cares about without telling empty stories here? He's the one who's given the most political grades here today, not exactly what the law is giving us, or what it's serving. Here, I'll tell you -- he's only serving to cover everything that's unconstitutional in the very proposal for a statute. Where this ship sails, I think many of you know, but knowingly they agree. Some people may not know. They'll probably have a cleaner conscience. This is a late-hour session. You're used to a lot of things that are important for this country to bring. That's your style of work. Everything we say, and believe that we're only saying that it would be written, because this kind of humiliation we wouldn't have suffered from you, and we would have long since left the Serbian Parliament Hall, because without the presence of any government official, it's really illusory to talk, almost terrible, but someday someone will enter the library of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, they will study this historic moment, because it will certainly have consequences. What's that? I wouldn't want to be a ominous bird. I wish you were right, and we were wrong, but we were right when it came to SCG, and when it was this omnibus law. It all came true what we said. I also said today at the beginning when I explained why I had singled out my opinion on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - I don't like this House Hall because the states in it are just disappearing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31478	Fourteen minutes and 50 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has the People's MP Đuro Mucenski, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31479	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, I had a dilemma in how to direct today's discussion of these laws. Given that a lot of hard words and difficult qualifications have been said here, I'm going to try one tactical way, through some practical examples to show what these laws essentially bring to us and what's most important in them. It is also in some way an answer to why we all need essential decentralisation, which must first and foremost happen in our heads and accept it as one normal flow, because it is something that is inevitable, if we want the benefit of the citizens of this country. I want this controversy with heavy words and the creation of an atmosphere of fear, the adoption of these two legal solutions and the creation of an opportunity for secession, but the opposite, to create a stable state and to create, through practical examples, improvements in life, gains for all citizens of Serbia, and these are examples that I will give you at the next point. It's a matter of economic development, so the question that we're all going to agree on is the most important thing right now. The aforementioned law establishing the competences of the AP Vojvodina provides a basis for faster development, economic development, through development plans, the adoption of spatial plans, the establishment of a development bank, the creation of contacts with European funds and thus the creation of an investment atmosphere and the creation of new jobs. Through two secretariats, which are now operating under the current Law on Jurisdiction, I will show that even in these humble conditions, when you do not have a lot of financial opportunities, you can make a good organization and create new jobs in today's financial crisis conditions. It is the Secretariat for Science and Technological Development, which through a programme of co-financing of high-tech technologies and new materials, has so far opened 64 plants and opened some 18,000 new jobs. The Secretariat for Labour, Employment and Gender Equality also provided around 18,000 jobs through its projects this year. These are jobs that are the first chance for trainees, for young people. These are programmes related to the largest part of the conservation and protection of the environment, care for the elderly, care for single mothers, self-employment projects for single mothers, care and employment of marginal groups, programmes deployed in all municipalities. In this way you have a practical example of how modest means can lead to even regional development in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The second question is the issue regulated in this law, which was in the previous law, and these new legal solutions open much better and greater opportunities, it is a matter of quality health care. The confidence of a range of health responsibilities is achieved through better quality and better health care at the republican level. So, the National Assembly needs to pass system laws, good system laws that will regulate the area, and then, through certain levels of decentralisation of government, leave health care to lower local levels of government, which will certainly be of better quality, because they know better about the problem. As an example, this is the belief of businesses to adopt specific health care programmes for certain diseases that are, for example, specific to the AP Vojvodina. There is also a response to our colleague, Peric, not in the sense that they do not appear in other regions, but because of the specificity of habits, diets and certain other things occur much more frequently in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The health analysis from 2002 to 2004 found that lung diseases, blood vessels, diabetes, and malignancies occur most frequently, and that is something that requires long-term, expensive treatment and you have to fight it. In what way? By participating in the establishment of health institutions that will treat and care for this, by participating in the development plan of health workers’ staff, which will take responsibility for the work of these health institutions, but more importantly, that you will work through early detection and disease prevention and early detection actions. I'm going to tell you that the Executive Greater, with the Regional Secretariat, on the basis of such an analysis, has led to a plan to work and finance projects for early detection of congenital thyroid disease in small, newborn children and phenylketonuria, where over the programs, 100,000 children have been examined and 70 cases have been discovered, which end in time with the right result and leave no disability, which would otherwise be present, and that is something to be commended. Also, through early detection of pulmonary diseases through the fluorography system, early detection of diabetes, early detection of malignancies through certain prevention programmes, where some 6,000 women are examined by pilot projects, where 248 cases have been discovered in the stage when healing is possible – these are the practical things that show that, when you have a well-organised health service, you can do much better because certain projects and plans have been launched at the level of the Republic, but have not yet experienced full implementation. What is also important is that you can then influence that most of the health care funds are included in these preventive programmes. As an example, 21% of Vojvodina health funds are intended for preventive programmes in 2008. With such delegated powers, you round up a system that will be more efficient, because you can plan, work, analyze and draw conclusions. I am deeply convinced that this system is deserved by all citizens of Serbia. The third thing that is specific in some way for Vojvodina in terms of the issue of achieving the rights of national minorities, not because these issues are not being realised and are not regulated throughout Serbia, but because it works well in Vojvodina and a well-organised system that regulates the issue of achieving the rights of national minorities in the sphere – education, information, culture and official use of language. It is a product of a long tradition, one of the experiences that exists, knowledge of the problems and specificities of national communities. I do not dispute at all that this has not been solved well elsewhere, but simply as one experience that can be transmitted and based on which a system can be well formed in other parts of our country. Normally, by adopting a law on national councils, this problem is systemically solved, to our great satisfaction, and that is the basis that it is being solved in other regions of this country, but the model, the way of solving and the practical experience that AP Vojvodina has in it is something like a resource to be used. These are little practical answers to some life issues that occupy the everyday life of our citizen. I will leave great answers to the empty questions to the other actors, and what I want to stress is that by adopting these two laws, as a member of the DS, as a member of the ZES parliamentary club, I will gladly support these two proposals in the voting day and I think that we will take a significant step in decentralisation of our country, as a way of solving a better life, and that is part of our pre-election promises that we will fulfill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31480	Nine minutes and 55 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has been given by MP Boris Aleksic, followed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The SRS parliamentary group is available for 12 minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the ministers disappeared in action, we have before us a bill on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and I must immediately disappoint the representatives of the DS who spoke about local self-government, this bill has nothing to do with local self-government. This is about territorial autonomy. To whom it is unclear what it is, and especially to the DS lawyers, I suggest they open a book on constitutional law and study what local self-government is, what territorial autonomy is, what is AP Vojvodina, what is AP Kosovo and Metohija. First of all, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not take into account the views of the most important lawyers in our country, above all academics Kosta Cavoski, Professor Smilje Avramov, Professor Ratko Markovic, Professor Vojislav Seselj and others. The question arises why is this law passed? A ruling coalition representative presented an amazing pearl today, said Vojvodina should have an investment bank, and even Shumadi should have an investment bank. What's the problem with this whole story? The Republic of Serbia does not have an investment bank. All of the Republika Srpska's investment banks were destroyed by Minister Mladjan Dinkic when he came to power. Now you are predicting Vojvodina's investment bank with this law and you are still proposing the creation of an investment bank in Shumadija, and the Republic of Serbia does not have one such institution. So, it's all clear. When it comes to the adoption of this law, I would first like to point out that it is absolutely impossible without the adoption of this law to the anti-constitutional statute of Vojvodina. In fact, he foresees 166 new responsibilities of the Vojvodina, which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not mention anywhere in its Article 183. It foresees the creation of already mentioned investment banks, the impact on elections, the election of judges, the creation of a network of courts. Vojvodina is entrusted with administrative and inspection supervision, second-degree resolution, resolution by appeal. New rural enterprises, institutions are also being created, and this is how the administration in Vojvodina is increasing. The government of the Republic of Serbia recently declared savings strategies in the Republic of Serbia. You have announced the dismissal of thousands of workers from the state administration, and now this law provides for the creation of new public enterprises, new institutions in the AP Vojvodina and, of course, an increase in the administration of the Republic of Vojvodina. So in other parts of Serbia, you are trying to save your layoffs, and in Vojvodina you employ new people in the state administration and thus discriminate against other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Obviously, this law, as well as the statutes of children born in Novi Sad and Subotica, will have more rights than children born in Piroth, Vranj, Loznica, Nis, Kralje, Belgrade, etc., other parts of the Republic of Serbia. Under the law, Vojvodina will have the right to conclude international contracts and will have its representations abroad. For example, regions in Hungary and Croatia do not have these rights, and you are slowly creating a similar structure that existed earlier in the territory of Serbian countries, which was known as Banovina Croatia. It is obvious that the EU is behind the pressure and demands the adoption of this supernadal law and the adoption of the war crimes statute of Vojvodina and, above all, in the EU, a united large Germany. So that's very clear. I'll explain all this later, and I'll give you specific information. Symbolic Banovina Croatia was created by the Cvetkovic-Macek agreement, Prime Minister Cvetkovic's agreement, and today a production similar to Banovina Croatia is created while the prime minister, Prime Minister Cvetkovic, is also. Banovina Croatia created in 1939 announced new injuries, conflicts, destruction, mass killings, genocide against Serbs, concentration camps etc. Another symbolism is that DS is returning to its original liquids, the assets of Josip Broz Tito and his 1974 Constitution, which divided Serbia into three parts. Just the return to this constitution was openly required by Washington and Brussels from the Republic of Serbia and it is obvious that Boris Tadic is now fulfilling their wishes in hopes of reaching a famous EU. The shame is, here is a little more symbolism, that the Duke of Serbia and the Tami Banat, as was once known, as a symbol of Serbia in Austria and Austria, now becomes a symbol of something else, that the cross with four glasses and a two-headed white eagle replaces the new symbols of Vojvodina, three yellow sectarian pentagrams. So, what an irony. However, the question is really why is this law passed? The Serbian Radical Party has concrete information that certain EU institutions and organisations have requested that such a law be passed, which would open the possibility of adopting the Vojvodina Statute, and that the solutions provided for in the statute be as they are, as predicted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, the leading role in this action is played by Germany and its organisation, which is called the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups. The Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups applies the old "Volks Group" principle applied in World War II. They held a series of meetings in Subotica, Novi Sad, and their official bulletins have long published the solutions provided for by this bill and by the proposal for the Vojvodina Statute, which comes for a debate tomorrow. Their official FUEN-Actually, in English, exists in German, of course, predicts the creation of a region and the axis of Subotica-Novi Sad-Zagreb-Vukovar-Osjek. So it's clearly visible on these cards and it's undeniable. They held a series of meetings with representatives of Vojvodina institutions, as well as some minority parties. So, the representatives of the Federal Union of European ethnic groups, not to be confused, are sponsored by the German foreign ministry, and according to French expert General Pierre Marie Gallo, and the German security service BND. In a second issue of their magazine, FUEN-Actually envisioned certain solutions for Kosovo and Metohija, as well as Vojvodina. On their cards, as can be seen, they separate Vojvodina from the rest of Serbia from the interstate borders, just like KIM, Montenegro was here. So it's very clear. One of the meetings, the first in a series in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, was held in November 2000 and the meeting in Sudotica on 17 and 18 November 2000 was attended by representatives of the Federal Union of European ethnic groups, including representatives of minority parties from Vojvodina and representatives of institutions from Vojvodina. There was also the German company Dunav, the association of the German minority association, etc. However, German experts in co-operation with French experts published a collection of documents on the federal Union of European ethnic groups. I would like to point out once again that they have provided in their magazines the solutions that you provide for in this law and the Statute of Vojvodina. This collection of documents was published in the edition of the Jasen publishing house. The authors are Vlater von Geldendah and Hans Ridiger Minov, and the preface was written by General Pierre Marie Gallo. This book published a series of documents, including irrefutable evidence, that the federal Union of European ethnic groups, whose solutions you are applying today in Vojvodina, was created by experts on minorities who acted during World War II in Czechoslovakia, for the interests of the Sudanese Germans, directly against the Czech Republic. Among other things, the following is stated in this book: FUEN's "Europe of Ethics" and FUEN – Currently, this magazine that I showed you, here again, dedicated a number of praises to the memory of the anti-Semite and the national-socialist racist Theodore Fitter. He was a close associate of the FUEN. On that occasion, FUEN praised the main anti-Semitic Fiter's work "National Autonomy" from 1938. It promotes the national socialist people's opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, these are irrefutable evidence. We also have faxes here. This is that collection of documents. It was published by German and French experts, and today you are applying those solutions, against the Republic of Serbia, and in Vojvodina. The whole project became clear when your Boris Tadic visited the Germans when he visited Italy when he met with Silvia Berlusconi. He signed the agreements, imagine who he was with, with Lombardy. Not with the Republic of Italy, but with Lombardy. It's that north of Italy that's more developed than southern Italy. It is not just the case in Serbia that the north of the country or part of that north is more developed than the south of a country. It's a well-known fact. There is, here is in Italy. Italy, first of all Lombardia, should direct Vojvodina to further independence from the Republic of Serbia, and, of course, Germany...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31482	People's MP, the time at your representative's disposal has been used. The word has a People's MP, Nandor Maraci.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31483	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, I am sorry that my fellow radicals have left, and I think that we have listened to them honestly to the end and in one way or another, as they treated us, it is neither collegiate nor fair at all. But everyone has the right to their own opinion, as they had their opinions, we have our opinions in the DS. I think that time is the best drug to prove who was right and now, we can say, after 13 months, that the bill establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina finally arrived in this holy house, I think in the day of voting, the DS will vote for this law and normally for the statutes of the AP Vojvodina. The AP Vojvodina, or the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, adopted this important document. Also, the National Assembly Legislative Committee concluded that the law transposing Vojvodina's jurisdiction is in line with Serbia's constitutional and legal system. It means that the proposal for a law on the transfer of jurisdiction has been clarified on many issues and there is no doubt about the constitutionality of this document. This is shown in Article 2. I don't want to quote. You've all read it well. Also, Article 5, where the relations between the Republic and the province authorities are established by the Constitution and by law are also regulated, so I don't think there's any doubt about the regularity of these documents. What is extremely important, the draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina has been prepared, starting with the provision of Article 12. The RS Constitution. It is also extremely important that the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which regulate the province's autonomy and legal position of autonomous provinces, the provisions of the Constitution of Articles 176 to 187, and in particular in the preparation of the proposal for a law from Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which found that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate matters of regional importance, will take over 153 new responsibilities from the republican authorities under this law. Any of these competencies I mention, each one of them is important. I'll mention a few. The spatial planning, regional development and construction of buildings, there was a lot of dilemma about it. I think that's clear and there's no need to give some particular explanation to this member. The conclusion of inter-regional agreements is extremely important. I can give you a few examples - Vojvodina has concluded an international contract with Dunav - Tisa - Krish - Morish, which is normal. Vojvodina with southern Hungary, Romania, Temisvar and Arad, that part, they've already concluded an international contract. There's no dilemma. Also, if we look at the health tourism of Vojvodina, where Kanjiza is the centre of this health tourism and has an extremely good co-operation with southern Hungary, there is regional co-operation at an extremely high level. They shall be transferred to the field of education. What has been said, responsibilities in the area of agriculture, rural development, water industry, forestry, hunting, fishing and many other responsibilities that are extremely important for the province of Vojvodina. As for hunting and fishing, I wanted to talk more about our minister being there, because when we talked about a set of environmental laws, I had a chance to talk about the fish fund. These responsibilities stemming from the RS law, I think they will be even better regulated. We also have a law on hunting, which will soon come to this house, in the Assembly of the RS, where we will regulate under this law and jurisdiction that belongs to the Vojvodina. I think this Vojvodina will get a lot, too, and Serbia. And in the end, I would quote Professor Petrovic's words. He'll probably be here tomorrow. So, after the entry into force of the new statute, and these powers that will belong to Vojvodina, followed by the very dynamic work of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina because it would be necessary to lay down a series of regulations in order to bring the work of the province's authorities in line with the highest legal act of the Vojvodina. After the adoption of these extremely important laws in Vojvodina, there is a period ahead, where these laws must be aligned with the highest legal act of Vojvodina. It will normally take some time, and I think that in the day of voting we will vote these laws, to the great satisfaction of many duchess. I think that many citizens of Serbia, who have followed the debates that were there, can say for 13 months, realize that this is the right act and that other areas in Serbia will also go this way. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31484	Eight minutes and three seconds used by the MP's group. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask whether representatives or representatives of parliamentary groups want to speak, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. The word has a folk letter from Nada Kolundji, president of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31485	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I took the floor to show that those who represent themselves as guardians of territorial integrity, the sovereignty of the state, like those who claim that we are breaking the state here, show no interest in this debate. To them, the only thing that matters is that they bring out general political passwords, without any effort to make an argument about what they claim. Unfortunately, this debate has shown that they did not discuss the very essence of these acts and what these acts contain and what the effects of these acts are. I will not specifically comment on the qualifications they have raised, but I think it is important for the citizens to say that there are still those who speak at the level of conspiracy, international conspiracy, mercenaries, those who carry out someone's will, that they do not understand at all what the interest and needs of Serbian citizens are, that they are saying that someone has seized state power, not understanding that a citizen, under the Constitution of the RS, a carrier of sovereignty and as a carrier of sovereignty, has a sovereign right to transfer his share of sovereignty to local self-government, to the region, the AP and to the state of Serbia. What is something that can make us all sad is that there are still such important topics in this country that only approach as a particular political topic that they can count on to get some political point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-24-0.u31486	Before we conclude work in the evening or tonight's work for today, I want to thank the congregation services, the employees of the National Assembly, and the RTS team that we worked with together until 22.40 hours. We're finishing work for today. The paper continues tomorrow, November 25th at 12:00 p.m., by discussing the motion for a decision to confirm the statutes of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you, everyone. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the sittings. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall right now, that there are more than one third of the MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Before we continue the session in the opening of the agenda, two notices to the MPs. First, I am informing the MPs of our guests at their house, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, part of today's session, starting at 12.00 hours, from the Grand Hall gallery of the National Assembly will be accompanied by representatives of the Union of Law Schools from Kragujevac. Today they are with us in the National Assembly: Danica Djusić, Milica Zivanovic, Marija Aksentijević, Tanja Petronijevic, Nevena Janković, Milos Trandafilović, Stefan Vuk Milanović, Vladica Milunović, Djordje Tanasijević, Aleksandar Tošović, Marija Mićković, Bojana Mićović, Novak Vlahović, Kristina Popadić, Ivana Živadinović, Mladen Kundović, Vojkan Kundović, Željko Vimić, Tamara Perović, Kristina Janković, Marko Radosavljevljevic, Ivan Jedić, Milica Đurdjevic, Stefan Simić, Novak Vlahović, Ivan Jedzdić, Nenad Mladen and Isidora Kolović. [[Applause]] Welcome to the National Assembly, to your house. A second announcement, and before we continue to work, I would like to inform you, on behalf of the president of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, that today, on November 25th 2009, the day of the International Day of Combating Violence Against Women, which was established by the UN ten years ago. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia responded to the call of the Interparliamentary Union, the oldest international parliamentary organisation, to contribute to strengthening civil awareness of the seriousness of this problem and the need for all of us to participate in the fight against violence against women. In this context, and at the initiative of the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, I would like to inform you that today's session of the Committee, chaired by the National Parliament, will be dedicated to fighting violence against women. I call on all MPs to, by personal example, continue to show our commitment to eradicate this great social problem, sometimes completely in the darkness of privacy, and now, through the work of all of us, presented as a subject that society must discuss and deal with. I thank the MP Gordani Paunović-Milosavljevic for organising today's session of the Committee on Gender Equality. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Sasa Dujovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Jasmina Milosevic, Nikola Krpić and Petar Petrovic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for the meeting to be attended by representatives of the AP Assembly, Vojvodina Tamas Korhec and Dragoslav Petrovic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON DAVANJA PRE-FERENCE ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AP VOVODINE ARTICLE You have received a proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which has been established by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislative Committee. I remind you, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to political groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for discussion is five hours in principle, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is the following: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Electoral Group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Sending Group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform the parliamentary groups that they have been authorised to represent them: MP Djuro Peric, MP of the PUPS; MP Dusan Bajatovic, MP of the SPS - JS; MP Aleksandar Martinovic, MP of the SRS. If any other parliamentary groups of representatives are to be appointed, please inform the chairman or secretary of the National Assembly. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does National MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic.
