ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21522	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of Members of the People, I find that there are 84 MPs present at this time. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Esad Djudjevic, Momo Colakovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalić, Milica Radovic, Balint Pastor, Riza Halimi, Mladen Grujic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoters Dr Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister and Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure, the presence of Ivan Maričić, the Director of the Treasury and Zarko Milicevic, the junior adviser at the Ministry of Finance. I invited them, I expect them to come. I'm notifying that I've invited them. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE "SOCIETE GENERALE", PARIZ, FRANCUSKA, BY THE DEBT OF JP "SERVES" (SERVES) You have received an amendment submitted to the bill by MP Boris Aleksic. You received an opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Alexiche, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21523	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have submitted a total of two amendments to this united point, and one and the other concern the deadline within which the law enters into force. We have suggested that the solution be one that is consistent with our legal system and that it be in accordance with the law, meaning, on the eighth day of the adoption of the law. I will now read to you the argument of the Government when it comes to the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France... (President: Gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to ask you to hear Mr Alexic.) Please, be quiet. )......................................................................................................... under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". As a reason for the entry into force of the law the following day from the date of publication, the obligation must be stated by the Public Enterprise by 30 June 2009, relating to the implementation of the loan. The following law, which is related to "Unicredited Bank", states practically the same reason, only that the realisation of the loan must be completed by 29 November. Here we immediately see the illogicalness – if it is in a hurry about the first draft of the law because it must be implemented in June, the question arises why is it rushing with this second bill, which is due to be implemented on November 29th? I think the government of the Republic of Serbia has put something in the same basket that is incompatible. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that we did not get from the government's representatives everything we asked for last time, which we were promised somewhat, and as regards the contract concluded by the Public Enterprise with those banks, therefore, with the "Societ Generale", Paris, with their headquarters, with their bank in France, and with Unicredit bank a.d. Belgrade. So we haven't had a chance to check out all the contractual clauses and see for ourselves the justification of such borrowing. We have already cited this last time, and I will also point out several times in the debate, that the current debt of the Republic of Serbia is an external debt of $30 billion, that the external debt of the old SFRY was $30 billion, that the old Yugoslavia had 22 million and that Serbia had about eight million inhabitants. So, only a child born in Serbia, only a baby born in this way, is in charge of $3,750. Every resident of our country is in charge of this amount. If loans are not paid, if something is not reprogrammed, if we do not restore production, this debt will increase multiplely. Also, I am sorry that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is not here, and I would like to give one important piece of information that we received yesterday from the Democratic Party's representative, and it is very important for the tolls. In fact, yesterday, DS representatives, primarily Mr. Sutanovac, promoted the so-called "Stutanovac". corridor, project "green transversals", believe it or not. I'll read you the stenographic notes on what this is all about. On the direct issue of a Democratic Party MP on Turkey's influence in the Balkans, Mr Sutanovac points out: "What is definitely common to all Southeast European countries, I do not say to the Balkans, I think it should belong to Vienna, even for me, is that one security sector that sets Ankara, the one that comes to Vienna itself. In that sense," the defence minister further said, "Turkey is one of the perhaps most important countries that exist in our space. Turkey is a country that has a very long, direct impact for many years, and today has an indirect impact." So this is a quote, so someone doesn't think I'm making grammatical mistakes. "Turkey is a country with a reputation around the world, with an army that raises reputation even more than economy." It's a finished quote. So, Mr. Defence Minister suggested whether knowingly, whether unconsciously, the project of a "green transversal" leading from Ankara to the heart of Europe and to Vienna, where Turkey was defeated in time. He also praises the Turkish army, known for its mass killings. I think this is important information for the trails, first of all because they're going to have to build corridors in that direction now, so it would be convenient for Mr. Mrkonjic to say what he thinks about this new project, so it's no longer Corridor 10, now it's a "green transverse", all the way to Vienna. When it comes to the "green Transverse", I will remind you that one of America's greatest anti-terrorism congress experts, Mr. Joseph Bodanski, who has been at the head of the counter-terrorism team and the unconventional war of the US Congress since 1998, has spoken on several occasions about the execution of the green transversal project, which leads from Turkey, as said Minister Sutanovac, to Vienna. Countless publications were published by the US Strategic Policy (between others, and Gregory Kopley, his associate), who talk about the devastating impact of this corridor, drug smuggling and smuggling of terrorists to Western Europe... (President: Mr. Aleksic, just to be clear, you obviously speak within 15 minutes, as a representative of the parliamentary group. Go ahead. So this is a catastrophic story. As I tell you, the official documents of the US Congress speak of the execution of the corridors of the "green transverse" or "green highway", as some experts in the West call it. As I said before, it also transports terrorists from the east to the west, as well as narcotics. Probably an MP who asked Mr. Sutanovac, who likes to stand next to the silver hammer symbol, had in mind a meeting held from May 14th to 17th in Greece, in the Athens suburb of Vulagamen, at the Hotel "Astir Palace". Practically, the world's aristocracy, some new first, second class, away from the third class's eyes, came and held a meeting. They were representatives of international financial organisations; it will also be interesting for Mrs Dragutinovic to have representatives of the World Trade Organisation, the IMF, the US Federal Reserve System, the World Bank and many others. In fact, the meeting discussed issues of EU enlargement and EU enlargement to Turkey and Macedonia, so certain conclusions were adopted in that direction, so the DS MP I was talking about was probably the particular one when he spoke about Turkey's influence. So, under the influence of this meeting, he is now promoting one, I would say, a truly terrible English policy, a Siton-Votson policy, a formulated memorandum in 1915, a disraeli policy, a policy to support "the Bosphorus patients" and a policy to support Turkey's "dead hands" in Europe. I should not say that it is directly opposed to Orthodox countries, of course, Russia, Greece, Serbia, and Europe itself, traditional European values and European culture. Now I will have to deal with the laws themselves and remind the citizens of Serbia, which is why we have criticised these two draft laws. As anyone can see from these proposals, the first proposal, related to the "Societ Generale" Bank of Paris, Serbia is in charge of a new 100,000 euros, increased by the amount of agreed interest, fees and other real costs. As we have already noted, we have no record of what the interest is, what the fee is, what the other costs are. We don't even have a payment plan, which is a mandatory part of every loan contract that's listed in this bill. We need to make a decision about this law based on predictability, based on precognition. I don't think anyone can do that, and any banking expert would simply reject a proposal like this and move on to someone else, because it's unserious. Here, I'll give you a few details of this bill, related to the "Societte Generale" Bank of Paris. Article 3 states that the debtor is obliged to provide the funds for the payment of the loan according to the payment plan, in the amount involving the principal and the interest charged. We got the data on the principal, that's 100 million euros. We haven't received any data on the amount of interest. However, Minister Dragutinovic presented information that the interest rate will be calculated per model by month's Eurobor plus 4.05%. However, it is not enough to have accurate data on the borrowing of Serbian citizens, on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. It will be higher than 100m euros under this loan contract. It remains to be seen how much. At point 2, where reasons for law-making are discussed, the proposal states that it is a matter of refinanced the commitments made by the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". There is no doubt that "Serbian Roads" should be helped, there is no doubt that the infrastructure in Serbia needs to be restored, but we must be very careful when it comes to borrowing citizens; there is no game with this, especially now that the external debt has reached that fantastic $30 billion figure, which existed in the old SFRY that had three times as many inhabitants. When it comes to the second bill, on granting a guarantee to the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Uncredited Bank", there are citizens of the Republic of Serbia in charge of the new 75,000; however, this time not abroad, but in Serbia itself, although the money, as explained by Minister Dragutinovic, will arrive from abroad, which is logically due to the amount. Also, this amount is increased by the amount of the agreed interest, fees and other actual costs. We know what the capital is - 75,000 thousand euros, but we don't know what the interest is. We don't have a payment plan, we don't have accurate data, and we notice that something is hiding in this bill. It hides, as the Ministry of Defence hides, data related to the opening of a NATO office at the defence ministry. In 2006, a Serbian Radical Party, based on the Information Act, submitted a request through our expert Ivan Ninic to publish data on NATO's defence ministry office, which was given equipment to NATO, whether it was granted free of charge, whether or not some credit was obtained for what it was about. We didn't get the information. The same thing was with the SOFA agreement that the Ministry had been hiding for a year, so he didn't want to publish it. So, the Information Act was passed, there's the Information Commissioner, but the government doesn't respect its own laws, for a year she wouldn't deliver the data. Even the defence ministry's representatives said the document was in the foreign ministry, which was not true. Our expert Ivan Ninic managed to reach the agreement after a year. Since this is a 175,000-euro debt, plus interest, it will exceed 200,000 euros, I must remind citizens that last week the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority in the National Assembly charged them with a new 155,000 euros. Last week, 155,000 thousand euros, this week 175,000 thousand euros, plus interest. As Serbian citizens appeared at the SRS Parliament Club, they were particularly interested in the details of the variable interest rates, we expressed our suspicion that eventually, since we did not see these credit agreements with the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", similar clauses exist in these contracts. I'm obliged to explain what this is all about. Banks have been intensive since last year, commercial banks, business banks, which operate in RS territory, have entered into their credit agreements that approve the population of the variable interest rate clause, which is related to the margin, not only to the part indexed in foreign currency, for Swiss francs or for euro, so, eurobor or libor. It's green interest rates, it's against the law. I have already noted that green interest rates were banned even in ancient Rome, according to Roman law. As you know, numerous daily papers in Serbia have published data that banks have increased interest rates, that the payments for citizens' loans have increased, although, for example, the eurobor, the reference interest rate, has dropped by as much as 50% and more since the beginning of last year. Thus "Blic" stated that eight banks, I will not say on purpose, have increased the rates on repayment loans. The National Bank does not perform its function, it does not operate in the control of business banks, it conducts surveys. She's acting, like, like Cesid. The National Bank of Serbia should not conduct surveys, it should control business banks, act on the National Bank inspector's reports, respect the law, and those who break the law bring the law before the legislative blow. The Serbian government must help with that. According to Blica, the National Bank of Serbia conducted three surveys from October 2008 to April 2009 (so she noticed the emergence of the introduction of green clauses in 2008) asking banks to inform her whether loans in use and pay would increase its margin. Of 35 banks, 20, according to the source "Blica", said they would not do so. But who can believe it? The main problem is that these clauses are contained in credit agreements. These clauses give them the opportunity to increase the margin a hundred times, two hundred times, plus infinite, which is illegal. According to the public voice team, the interest rate, euribor, at which leading European banks borrow money from each other and entering into the system of interest paid by Serbian citizens on loans taken, has been halved in half since the beginning of the year. Since October last year, when the Eurybor had a record value, interest has fallen by as much as 72.72%. This should be good news for the bank's clients. However, since lenders have decided to turn cheaper capital into a higher profit, citizens continue to pay off equally high monthly wars. (President: Mr. Alexic, now use your MP's time to finish. Here you go. What happened here? There has been an effective increase in the interest rate, as the return on the euro was not reduced by the payment of the loan. Now look at that game. These are market machinations, it's purely profitable and Serbian citizens have to be careful about taking credit, they have to read their loan contracts well, and the Serbian government has a duty to protect them. People's MPs have an obligation to speak freely about this. What's next? "As the main explanation for such behaviour," this is from "The Voice of the Public", "the banks cite the global economic crisis. “ It has nothing to do with us; the global economic crisis was caused by the misusing of financial derivatives, because large world economies did not want to apply Basel 1 and Basel 2 rules because private central banks, primarily the U.S. Federal Reserve System, printed an enormous amount of money. No one alive knows how much dollars is printed, how much is in circulation in the world. First, the mortgage market died, "fuchers" and "hengers" collapsed, then the car industry died, etc. Neither did the banking system suffer, as the DOS government had previously destroyed five major Serbian banks to open space for some other banks, although these banks had more claims than debts. So the banks couldn't fail, they still do business. The car industry couldn't go down. As you can see, these subsidized loans make it possible for citizens to buy cars cheaply, but you put money directly in the pocket of Miroslav Miskovic, who is the only one in charge of serviceing the Fiat vehicles, for selling car parts of the Fiat vehicles, etc. All Serbian citizens, if they have problems with the "punta", hope not, but if they have problems, they will have to address Miroslav Miskovic. He's a monopoly on that. As you can see, there are big problems with the loan contracts, and I would like to say once again that it's about that clause that banks illegally put into loans. It reads about this: XY (reputable risk does not matter which) retains the right to change the interest rate, i.e. The bank may, until the final settlement of all the obligations of the creditor under this contract, without the conclusion of a specific annex, change the rate of interest from the previous position, in accordance with the business policy acts of the bank which regulate the amount and method of the interest account. No, ladies and gentlemen, they can account for interest in accordance with the law, they have to account for interest in accordance with the law. This is a clause usually inserted either after an interest rate is defined or between certain attitudes, often printed with a smaller font. So, citizens, be sure to pay attention if you see a smaller font somewhere, petit, read it first, but in any case, read the loan contracts from start to end. Now I'm going to give my colleagues the opportunity to say something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21524	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Since there's only one amendment, I'm asking the others to give you my word if no one else is answering. Mr. Zoran Krasic and Dragan Todorovic responded. First, the head of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we began the debate on giving guarantees of certain things, which should be said for both MPs and citizens of Serbia, they remained completely unsaid. Why are we in a position to give this kind of money? We have no idea what the underlying debt is, what the interest is and how it was even possible for the state to come into this situation and suffer huge financial damage. The basic question arises, is this debt created legally or illegally? Will the state confirm with this law the illegal actions that are related to the creation of this debt? It should be known here that in 2000, or after October 5th, the Roads Directorate ended a year with zero dinars of debt, had no single dinar of debt. All that was related to the works and reconstruction of the highways and regional roads was then, as well as these, and every year, had to be foreseen by the budget; the Road Directorate did not exceed in 2000, in 1999 for any single dinar. However, in 1998, the Law on Roads was amended, and by law it was mandatory that all transactions assigned to the travel economy could be awarded exclusively by bidding. But in 2001 the DOS came to power, director of the Directorate for Roads station Tihomir Timotijevic, Tika Timotijevic. Then begins a senseless robbery in the Roads Directorate, that is, in the travel industry. Although there was a Roads Council in the Roads Directorate, which had the exclusive right to make decisions for all transactions greater than 800,000 dinars, the council did not meet until June 2001. By June 2001, millions of marks, or euros, were spent in the travel industry. This is the most responsible then, Minister Marija Raseta and the director of the Tika Timotijević Road Directorate. In 2003, or 2004, the Roads Directorate recorded a minus 5.5 billion dinar, which is about 80,000,000 euros. What is particularly interesting is that a criminal complaint has been filed against the then director of the Roads Directorate for abuse of duty. To this day, this thing isn't over. The question arises why in 2004, did the new government not take all the steps to clear these things up and that those responsible are responding? Because it wasn't done in 2004 we are in an even worse situation today in 2009. Serbia's Roads remained in debt between 30 billion and 32 billion dinars, which is about 400,000 euros. Now the question is, these 400,000 euros, or 320,000,000 euros, if we take those 80,000,000 euros made by the previous furniture in the Roads Directorate, how has that money been spent? Who spent it, what did he spend it for, and were they spent under the law? But you don't ask that question, you don't care at all. For the illegal actions that you have committed, you are pushing the country by giving guarantees, or probably paying each euro for the jobs that were done in the previous period. As far as I know, the last director of the Serbian Roads company has also been brought up for about 200,000 euros. You're going over it. You don't care about that at all. How is it even possible for you to solve anything in this country? You promise to fight crime and corruption, and this kind of thing doesn't interest you at all, you go over it like nothing happened. Because your goal is to deceive the citizens of Serbia again, and you look at it in every place and every step. Because of Serbian citizens, the virtual bridge again, promises again, in every pre-election campaign, the Zemun - Borca Bridge, the city of Belgrade. I'm surprised, so Boris Tadic made a recommendation not to print on the Kunstrak, it's expensive, but on the offshore paper. Look at today's daily newspaper, they all have this as an add-on, even pictures of bridges. I'm surprised they didn't put Dragan Gilas here to take a picture on this bridge. We've had a similar bridge over Ada Gypsies, six years since that bridge was built, although it still can't be crossed, but we'll probably be able to cross this bridge through the Danube as far as tomorrow. That's why you don't intend to investigate a single thing and clear things up. All you do is cheat. Boris Tadic promises to fight corruption, but why not go to his own house, first of all? Here, I publicly ask the question, let Dragan Gilas explain to him where he got 1,347,000 euros in 2005, in May, as a stake in the firm Ovation. Is that from the jewelry he sold in the Czech Republic? My people, do you know what 1,347,000 euros is, to put someone as a stake in the company? Why don't you ask that question? Probably from jobs like this, like this bridge... As you now promise to arrest the presidents of the municipalities, etc.; you probably want small fish, to try to trick Serbian citizens again before the elections, because that's all you care about. Look, when it comes to all these corruption and criminal acts that you're slowly trying to process, apparently, you've been informed of them for years. For years, the Serbian Radical Party has been warning you of the corruption and crime it is ruling and, above all, among the Democratic Party. They're bearers of crime and corruption, but you're going over it. You're just not interested in the state. Whatever price should be paid, the citizens of Serbia will pay, because your goal is to sell what little remains in Serbia and then pack your bags and get out of this country. That's the problem this country is facing. As long as the Democratic Party's power doesn't change, the fight with corruption can't be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21526	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21527	Of course, like the other MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, I have no illusions, and I am aware of the fact that the congregation's majority could not be persuaded by even videos, let alone analysis, paper or comparison of some data. Today, in this united debate, we have two laws that uncontrollably create obligations for all those who will be in the Republic of Serbia in five years; they do not create obligations for those who will flee Serbia. These laws are presented as something that has no alternative. Why don't they have an alternative? Well, they don't have an alternative, because since 25 January 2001 we have a power that wastes, sells, sales, and, with the help of media tycoons such as Dragan Gilas, Shaper, Krstic and these tycoons, it is able to turn everything around and believe that in terms of economic crisis and social misery, there was no opening of the bridge on TV yesterday. Look at the wonders, they say -- Chinese, and seven-eight years ago, Boris Tadic and all of you who are in power spit on both the Russians and the Chinese, saying, "What kind of friends did you find in the world, they're going to help you, they're going to save Serbia, they're just taking care of Serbia. “ As every lie over time falls, so did those lies. It's a good Russian gas now, it's a good Gazprom, they're good Russians now, having a firm stance on Kosovo and Metohija. Even the Chinese are desirable. They became desirable because they now have the strongest banks on planet Earth. That's how your criteria change, your sense of truth, your sense of justice, and where you find the interests of the citizens. We got two bill proposals. What's the point of this bill? The point is that the Republic of Serbia will give guarantees for 175,000 euros, and these guarantees should serve as some assurance that a public enterprise of the republic's interest and money will use to settle its debts. The question is, can the state give guarantees for these things? The state can certainly guarantee its public enterprises with regard to certain loans, for building something, but is it possible to issue a guarantee to refinance obligations? Let's see how that hellish plan of Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic and the satellite went, as far as this type of borrowing is concerned. You remember at the end of last year we had the Law on the Republic of Serbia's budget. Article 3 below A provides information on how much the Republic of Serbia will issue a guarantee in 2009. You voted that the Republic of Serbia would give guarantees up to 191 billion dinars in 2009. How so – $250,000 for 60,000,000 Swiss francs, for 1,341,000,000 euros and for 60 billion dinars. When you turn the budget, Article 3, sub-A, number VII, you'll see that item under 1 refers to business banks. So, you planned a guarantee for the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" to refinance the commitments made, amounting to 20 billion dinars. In December of last year, you made a decision that you would be obliged by this public company to make peace in the dinars, that this company would be in debt in dinars and that the Republic would give a guarantee in dinars. That operation obviously didn't work out. What did you do with the rebalancing? You changed Article 3 a month ago. Law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia. Again, in paragraph A, you say the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to nearly 131 billion dinars will be issued in 2009. What currency? One hundred million dollars, eighty million euros, forty billion dinars. Number VI, since something about the railroad was thrown out in the meantime, you put three guarantees. All three have the same text, and they only differ: under one, the JP "Serb Roads", to refinance the commitments reached -- sixty million euros, 5,700,000 dinars; under two, the same text, 100m euros, and under three - 750,000 euros. So the unmistakable commitments of the JP "Serbian Roads" are 235,000 euros. Who does he owe it to? Mr. Todorovic started something about what it was like in 2001. Djindjic told Chumet and Krmiva, he imported this one into a licking machine from Germany. Let me just remind you of those songs that have already become anthological – The plague is asphalting, and Marija Raseta is salting. In these songs there is also Mladjan Dinkic, there is Pitic, there is Božidar Djelic, beautiful folk songs, sung, everything they did. Of course, we need to draw attention to such draft laws so that we do not get another “vodvode from the Meridian Bank. ” While Bozidar Djelic was in the opposition, he was industrious, valuable, offering services to foreign investors. Since they could not pay the bright mind otherwise, they gave him 11,000,000 euros in shares with some banks. I say in advance, because of these 175,000 thousand euros, it's possible that someone successful will show up again. When it is said, I suppose, some of these banks, then infallibly you can say that it is one of the former ministers from Djindjic's government, because now Pitic is headed by the bank, Djelic is also close to the banks, Vlahovic is not well-sighted, so he rebels, it is a closed circle. As far as this French bank is concerned, the task is carried out in France, and in this second, Unicredit, in Serbia, in the exposition of the bank in Serbia. What are you doing? How is it possible not to settle obligations based on commercial transactions? How is it possible that the state doesn't recognize one bond relationship? This is the government's debt. The case wanted the state business to be entrusted to a company that was built as a public enterprise. Who is the most responsible for the work of a public enterprise? Founder. What means is the JP "Serbian Ways" available? State resources. Who has state resources on behalf of the Republic of Serbia? The government of the Republic of Serbia. How has this taken the government of the Republic of Serbia, then entered into some investment operations and failed to meet its obligations? What was that before, so they couldn't pay? The second question: what did that come from plus something that could have been planned for the resources available? If it weren't for election campaigns, like the one in Prepolje, where you paved everything and everything, in Kovin; now you're paved by Vozdovac, watching last night you share phones, sharing phones with citizens. It looks like the sun will warm people up in Serbia if there are additional elections in a municipality every day. Then Gilas as Santa walks through Belgrade and says -- no problem, it will be paved in 15 minutes. Where's his building permit? If the state doesn't need a building permit, why are you asking ordinary people? Your logic is, about, the following: We destroyed the economy, we shut down the factories, we forced you out, we don't let you work on the gigs, we don't let you work on the boxes. What are people doing with this kind of power? You're in the way of the citizens. Maybe Dinkic will say in a few months that we should cancel our pension, since it is a cost, unnecessary cost for the state; the pensioners will die anyway, so we can cut those costs. What's next? Two invisible bridges, but visible is Dragan Gilas, that's the problem. Something I'm confused, always in these warm days going in a long-sleeved shirt, isn't there a short sleeve? You know who flies wearing long-sleeved shirts? What's this country doing? Are you able to secure the battery? The maintenance of roads is a regular cost of business, the company is obliged to maintain those routes. Is it possible that we are driving on roads that are illegally built objects? How else do you interpret it? I remember when he came to that building, with a freshly painted mustache, Minister Shumarac and said – we're passing a new law, we can't build without permission, in 15 days you all get permission. At that time, we warned the public that the law was written by a man who had not designed the garage in his life, but had his own private company that carried out those measurements, etc. Last night we hear - the law is changing again. What, are we going to replace one of the Europeans with the turbo-European law? Is anyone answering? Can someone call on the responsibility of someone who is illegally building an election campaign to trick the citizens? Ask those in Prijepolje, all deceived; Rasim Ljajic cannot pass the census in Prijepolje now. A similar G17 will pass in the scribe. You know, everyone who went to the extra election with a big investment, with a big construction, in the general elections in that place didn't pass the censorship. Who spends it more than possible? In the light of these two laws, you have called for Articles 5 and 16. Public debt law. Excuse me, Article 5 or Article 16 does not give you the right to have the Republic issue a guarantee to refinance the debts of a public enterprise. How can we speak further “nothing has happened, nothing is valid” without resolving the question of why the debt, who made the debt, how did he make the debt, was there any chance that it would be reduced? Travelers paid, probably, and VAT when they were invoiced, so they got killed twice by the state. The state didn't pay them off. Probably they owe taxes and contributions. Travellers may also owe taxes and contributions, as they could not settle their obligations to their suppliers. Is there any possibility of compensation, so to clear up this situation, to reduce the effective obligation? Or we will be witnessing situations like this, that certain ministers promise to builders that the obligations will be settled: "Don't go into bankruptcy, if necessary, I will be the director of your company", so a man appears to us, and we don't know whether he's a minister or a company director. How is it possible for a construction operation in Serbia to suffer? Who bought the road companies? Some say Miskovic is the biggest owner, and it is said to be the biggest debtor of the state. Why don't you beat yourself up a little bit, beat yourself up, compensate him, let him buy state securities from the bank and get one or two percent higher interest rates than he did in some bank? Whose authority is this? In whose name do you exercise authority? When the Budget Law was passed and the rebalancing process was passed, however, I am not during the rebalancing process, after you kicked me out, but when I adopted the Budget Law, I drew your attention to Article 3 and these guarantees provisions. That you're in Article 3. The budget law wrote that guarantees would be issued is not a legal basis for you to look at every government proposal here and vote for it. It's not a legal basis, it's not a Article 5, it's not a Article 16. Public debt law. And there's no alternative here. Of course, we support workers who worked and didn't get paid because the state didn't settle their obligations, but do you know how many lists of their creditors this country has? You see the pathways, among other things, in this way only because it is dense to you: Corridor, so this, and so on, international reputation etc. What's the message? The government at all costs. The external debt of our Serbia is 30 billion, thanks to experts who say "expert in front of politics", thanks to what was here yesterday "NATO in front of Serbia" and what was "EU in front of Serbia". You set those three goals and you break up towards those goals, you don't care at all about life beside you, whether anyone in Serbia can live, whether they can't live. Which is schizophrenic - close down the factory and don't let a man do his job and then rely on some law. Self-defense is in front of every law. Citizens should organize themselves and defend themselves against this kind of authority. Then you get into mental problems. If Dragan Gilas could have fulfilled obligations that the city had not fulfilled in a month in Zemun and Voždovac, then you admit what you are doing. You'll change the elevators, the fire escapes, you'll change the roofs that leak, you'll solve the sewers. It's all business from the city's jurisdiction. You remember that people only exist when elections are made. How much do you remember? Just how long it takes to fool them, and what happens after the election doesn't interest you at all. As soon as the elections pass, they come to me and say, “I made a mistake this time too, so I voted for them. ” This is what I'm saying because of these citizens. Don't trust the Democratic Party. They cheated on everyone, they totally cheated on everyone. They have a value criterion from minus infinite to plus infinite. The Russians are no good, and now, where are you, brothers of the Russians? The Chinese are no good, where you are, brothers of China, save yourselves. Eight years ago, you spat on them. What are you all able to do to preserve power at all costs, and that "bus" you do not know how to drive. Drive it now by making Serbia more debt than the one that had the former SFRY. When are you gonna stop? You can only get voters to stop, to realize these frauds, to realize that you're spending the money that only our grandkids need to earn to settle some obligations. You don't throw yourself away with your work results, you don't throw yourself away at what your mind is or what your hands have earned, it's gone. "Sartid" you gave. I see you're all driving a "punto" from the flag, just got out under the hammer. Where are you taking us? Can this question even solve the election? Can elections address the issue of mental health of government members and interest circles that pressure the government? That's our dead end. Then hit someone with results, see what the results are. Well, what are the results? Gilas is one of the richest people. In addition to private companies, there is now a private city, walking through the streets and saying: “Boy, write this down, that tomorrow is asphalted here; boy, write down, when the school year starts, this school will open. ” It is finished, but we couldn't open it while the radicals were in power, and it's within the jurisdiction of the city. No, it's for the next school year. It's terrible what you're doing. When the one in Prepolje paved, he also showed a national sign of asphalt. There's a bad asphalt in front of Serbian houses. What are you guys doing? You're looking for a conflict, you're in conflict with the citizens. You're not in conflict with us, because we know who you are and what you are. We're just trying to convince the citizens not to fall for such disgusting lies. By voting for the Democratic Party, for Gilas, you vote against yourself, citizens. Ask a question – if he could have paved that street yesterday, why didn't he have yours paved? How come before the election? What regulations do you follow? Where are your building permits, where are your investment projects, where are your tenders? A friend of mine in Vojvodina works without a tender. Who can stop him? Nobody. He commands the Democratic Party, he says to Boris: "Shut up, kid, I'm going to sue you abroad" and the end of the story. And Chanak started to pick up on you. Imagine, Chanak is picking up on you, who knew? Most will vote for these laws. Why will most of them vote? Because they say there is no alternative. In the media they will say – we did it because of people who work in the travel industry. If you'd thought of people working in the travel industry, you'd never have owed the state. You only think about yourself. That's the problem. You don't have citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we don't have our interests either. That's what you said last year. It has also been difficult for you to call a session of the National Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija. You called Eulex, and then you started criticizing Eulex. You're able to do anything while you've got the media. Of course, we're not voting for this. We have proposed two amendments that as many or as many of these transitional provisions be made to the office, let us remind you that there is a Constitution and laws in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21528	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the representatives of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister and Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, want to give the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21529	Regardless of Mr Krasic's harsh words, I must say, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, that these days I spent here with you were impressed by the way you talked about the problem, which is very big, which is in the portfolio of the Minister of Infrastructure. It seems to me that for the first time, with all the critical tones (there was little criticism, perhaps a little more, but I do not want to be dragged to the other side), the Assembly is unique on this issue, so I am convinced that Mr Krasic will also vote for these two laws. If we want to go, finally, the right way, and I repeat, I accepted the criticism in my name and for everything that was before me, then we have to solve these things like this. So the understanding and understanding of MPs for the problem of the travel economy is a prerequisite. This law is for me today, I run away from those difficult words, but I must say – revolutionary for continuing this project that really means life for Serbia. It's the greatest encouragement for me, because now we're all in the same machine and we're all pushing in one direction, which means, once again, I say, my understanding and understanding, given that I've been doing this job for 40 years, and the critical tones you've said. In order for one of these jobs to end, not just in this area that I'm currently in charge of, but in general, then behind it, we all have to stop. As it has always been, whenever we've changed something by creating a new one, we've lost no man, and business has united us. Whenever we tried to change some of our old declarations, we lost people and fought. That's why I am grateful to all the MPs for their understanding. We're all one team now. You gave new strength, a new commitment, of course, to me above all as the man who runs the project, then to the entire government. Not to say big words further, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, let me expand, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia who will understand what this means, I thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21530	Thank you. I hereby conclude the draft... (Dragan Todorovic: Replica. ) You cannot, since the closing word, according to the Rules of Procedure, have representatives of the Proposer No, I don't. [[Dragan Todorovic: I have the right to replica.]] You're answering, but there was nothing offensive, vague. (Dragan Todorovic: He misread it. Sir, you don't have a word. There's no basis for replication. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. (Dragan Todorovic: Doesn't make sense. We have another law and you will have opportunities. There was really nothing vague, nothing offensive. Everything Mr. Minister said was very clear to the children who hadn't gone to school yet. (Dragan Todorovic: You can't diagnose... ) Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle... Mr. Todorovic, I warn you, I will give you a measure in case you interfere with further work. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21531	Mrs. Dejanovic, you are truly brutally violating the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. You insult the messengers. I thought it was the privilege of just one person who presides in that place, but it seems that you take the habits and abuse the presidency. Or you're professionally in some way in trouble, you've learned to diagnose, so that's what you're trying to do with MPs. First of all, I had the right to a replica. Whether it's clear or not, let the citizens evaluate it, because they're the ones who evaluate it, evaluate it, give their grades in the election. Not you and me, you about me or me about you, you about my stranger or me about your party. If we thought the same thing, we'd be in one party. If this is how you prevent our constitutional right and the business right to use this Rules of Procedure, it is a harsh and brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know why you need it. With Mr. Mrkonjic for ten years, and more, we've been working together, and everything I would say Mr. Mrkonjic knows. I wouldn't say anything new. The citizens of Serbia should know that. Why are you afraid of Serbian citizens hearing the other side? Do you think that's gonna make the citizens worse? No, it'll just be better. The more information and the more they know, the better they'll be able to grade and evaluate. Like this, you're preventing it. You all...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21532	Thank you. It's been two minutes. In accordance with Article 101, the right to replica has an MP in case he was offended or misread, and then replicates him. The chairman, or president, is assessing whether it happened. I really think that you understood Mr. Minister and that there were no offensive terms sent to you or to your MP group. Therefore, I have applied Article 101. If you are not satisfied with my explanation, in the day of the vote, we can plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the basis for getting a word? (Dragan Todorovic: Exactly 101. Why didn't you read it to the end of 101? You can't go twice on the same subject. (Dragan Todorovic: You have not read Article 101). I just advertised Article 104. Why didn't you read article 101 to the end? ) The dignity of the congregation was not injured, and Article 101 was applied by not giving you the right to reply. If you are not satisfied, you have the right to ask that in the day to vote the Assembly declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to? (Dragan Todorovic: How can I explain when you don't give me your word? I gave you, here, tell me, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21533	Ms. Dejanovic, because of the citizens of Serbia, you certainly know it, and even if you didn't know it, the deputy secretary would help you. Article 101 has three positions. The second view says: "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, namely a political party whose MPs belong to that political group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. “ What the Minister of Infrastructure said was about the presentation of SRS MPs. You're only based on my statement, if you'd given me your word, if you'd given me the right to the replica, you could have even applied the warning measure if I'd misused the right to the replica. But for you to know in advance, it's just amazing. It's really bordering on some of the things that you're supposed to be an expert at. That's the problem we're facing here in the Assembly, which the chairman knows in advance what to say, what to say. Because he knows in advance, you can't even get a word in. Why don't you regulate your discretionary right to the Rules of Procedure, because it's getting very stretchy? There is a possibility that some MPs will receive nine minutes in continuity. I don't want to mention the name. I don't want to cause anyone any trouble. The other MP can't, but he has to come three times. Apply the Rules of Procedure to all the same, and then there will be no problem. As soon as you have discretionary rights, there's a problem, especially when it comes to the SRS. These are the things you need to regulate. If you've changed the Rules of Procedure in this way as you've changed it... It's been two minutes. ) Because of the citizens of Serbia, we will endure this. Your discretionary right is precisely defined by the Rules of Procedure, and then we will be sure that the Rules of Procedure will be equally applied to all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21534	Thank you. Mrs. Verica Radeta has a word, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21535	I'm in charge of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 8. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the Rules of Procedure serve to apply, and your right, as you call it, should be discretionary, not abuse of law. This is not the first time you have misused your right, which the Rules of Procedure actually gives you. I know I can't talk about something that happened, say, yesterday, and there's no way to mention what you did yesterday when you deceived the MPs -- you promised to talk about those two points of the agenda yesterday, so then you gave us a list of where the two points of the agenda were mixed up. I'm not answering for it right now, but I have to mention it, because there's no other way, since you've banned the Ministers from mentioning the breach of the Rules of Procedure from sitting here on that day. Then somebody can shoot someone here, and the other one can't say that a broken Rules of Procedure, dignity, law, anything. What does Section 8 say? "In the case referred to in Article 7 of this Article, the President of the National Assembly, i.e. the chairman, shall be obliged that the time used by the MP using the right of use under Article 1 of this Article shall take away from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda, if his parliamentary group has remaining time to search." So, after Mr Dragan Todorovic's presentation, you could have realized that you gave him the word by accident, and you should have given him on purpose, that in your opinion he misused his right and that those two minutes were taken away from the time left by the MP's group. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you are so in violation of the Rules of Procedure from day to day, from hour, that this was not even the darkest time in parliamentaryism, which we thought was from 2000 to 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21536	It's been two minutes. Of course there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. In the case you're talking about, I'd have to give a warning measure, and take it away from time, to find out, and then take it away from the time left to the MP's group on that agenda point. It was not my intention to turn a session that was quite correct during a session in which I would say the measures, if it was not explicitly a prerequisite for it, which, of course, any MP could create if he insisted on it being so. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR THE USE OF UNICREDIT BANK SRBIA A.D. BELGRADE, BY THE DESERVATION OF JP "SERBIA TRADES" (SERVES) You have received an amendment to the bill submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. You received the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Todorovic, so Mr. Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, since because of the President of the Assembly and the way the Rules of Procedure interpreted me, I didn't get a chance to respond to your statements, here, I'm going to take this right now. You have invited all MPs here, the entire Assembly to stand behind the proposal of these two laws, to show unity in such a way, because you believe this guarantee will allow the wayways to be paid for the jobs they have done and that this is necessary in order to ensure that travel needs, especially for Corridor 10, can be implemented. I remind you, Mr. Grouchy, that it happened once. It happened after the bombing, when Serbia had to rebuild its infrastructure, almost complete infrastructure, especially travel-related infrastructure, for bridges that NATO criminals destroyed during the 1999 crime bombing. The State Construction Directorate was then formed and much was done in a relatively short time so that Serbian citizens could live as normally as possible, not to cross the Ponton Bridges, but to move normally. Unfortunately, scars from this criminal bombing are still visible today; just across the street from the government are buildings of the Ministry of Defence that have been destroyed; there are others throughout Serbia and the question is when we will be able to restore what they have destroyed. Unfortunately, we have dropped those charges, namely the verdicts for all NATO leaders who took part and who are responsible for this criminal bombing. It was then the government of people's unity, and then there really was unity, and it could have been done then. That was before, now it's a completely different situation. I suggest one thing to you, Mr. Grouchy. You know the travel economy well, you knew Predrag Krkić, longtime director of the Road Directorate. You weren't there when I gave the facts. When he retired, Mr. Krkic, as far as the Road Directorate's balance, had zero. So he didn't spend any more of the only dinar than was planned for the budget. You know that there was a Council and that it was taken care of, that sessions lasted a few hours, but nothing, absolutely nothing could have been done past the law. There were representatives of several parties. But one was precisely defined - past the law can't. Jobs can't get past bidding and can't get past some of the standards that are foreseen in the travel industry. I don't know if you remember, but when the road companies realized that there was no more chance of getting jobs except by bidding, they resorted to agreeing between themselves – you're going to get that job, you remember that great, we're going to give higher prices, you're going to give less, you're going to get the job, but that's why we're going to get the other one. That's where we stopped them by saying that the price would only be within the standards that exist in the Roads Directorate. That's why she could have been zero in the end. Then came Tika Timothyjevic. When he left, the situation was completely different -- five and a half billion dinars or 80m euros. Someone had to question it, Mr. Grouchy. How did he create such a debt? How are things shared? The Law on Roads makes it clear – it can only be through bidding. Let's see why in 2004, no initiative was launched to see how many jobs were in the previous period, who got them, and how? It would be very simple. Among other things, you know that Tika Timothyjevic has been brought up with criminal charges and has not been prosecuted to this day. A criminal report has been filed against Maria Rashete, even in custody, but it is not finished, it has been placed under the carpet. But, Mr. Mrkonjic, for this kind of crime, it's too small a rug, it's slowly falling out; it's pushing on the one side, but it's already falling out. Now you're coming as the Minister of Infrastructure. The debts are now about 32,000,000 or 400,000 euros and you are now the most responsible. Now it needs to be cut. So, as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, there's no dilemma whether it wants to stand behind every job, a project that's useful to the state, but we want a clean bill, we want to see what we're behind. Where did you let the MPs see what was going on in the past? You're not bound by anything, you're not responsible for it, you weren't in the government. Why would you cover the jobs that have been done in the past? For what? You know that the latest director of "The Way of Serbia" has also been brought up with criminal charges. Chuck is said to have spent 200,000 euros unintentioned. It's an abuse of official position. That's a lot of money. It has to come to the surface once. Why should you be in a position, as our people say, “no onions, no onions, no onions, ” to bear responsibility for it? You'll be able to handle it if it doesn't clear up now, to know which of those 400,000 euros made that debt and how. Just to let you know that the works between the settlements of the Blue Horizons and the Earth fields are under way, to connect the Blue Horizons and the Earth Field, and that's great. We don't mind every street being paved, every village getting water, getting sewers, getting an ambulance, having a school and having a ride, where good thing your problems are solved. But why two arches? You know, when it comes to these works, there's not at first one that's mandatory, a solution that's said to have been granted a permit to build that path. That's why Gilas is a nonstop sparta. With what right? With what right? In the same place, citizens had water problems for years; they took water to introduce, three inspections came. Imagine, in the 21st century, Mr. Mr. Gristle, people have no basic conditions for hygiene! The city of Belgrade, which is in charge of this, is waiting for the elections, so before the elections, it will pick up a vote to solve these problems. They took the citizens and they took the city's inspection, and then they took the city's inspection. How about a trip? And 150 meters of water can't? Why should you stand behind it? Why should we stand behind it? We won't. We want a clean bill. We want a clean bill because it's the only way we can get into a situation where things move forward. This way one crime will be covered with other crime, and another crime, until we get into a situation where we absolutely have no chance of getting away with it. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, this call by Boris Tadic to deal with crime and corruption could be accepted if citizens were convinced it would actually be launched. How? Look, they robbed the country, they black-headeded it. In 2001, the value of all companies to be privatised is estimated at between 50 billion and 60 billion euros. It is 50 billion euros; 70% of that value has been sold for two billion and seven hundred thousand euros. So, of the 35m euros worth we had, we sold for less than 10%. How is that possible? It is possible if you take "Sartid" sold for 21 million marks, if you take "The mouth" for 10 million marks. You remember that well, you're a builder, you know how much the Palace is worth. In doing so, out of eight acres, 5.5 ha of land was obtained. How? Corruption. Now they're after the president of the municipality, announcing arrests. What is a municipality for the city of Belgrade? What is one municipality for the city of Belgrade, Mr. Mrkonjic, and what is one ministry compared to one municipality? What are cementers? What are sugars? What about Luka Belgrade? What are many factories and enterprises that have been sold into depravity, for 10% of the value, not the total value, but 70%? See now "dragon", IMT, IMR; it will be sold for building land. It is now cheaper for the state to sell IMT and IMR in existing places, with existing machines, to move them out of Belgrade and, allegedly, it is useful for the state, because they will be able to sell land. Yesterday we had a statement from the MPC, he says – yes, it is true, we get, they say, in a legal way, but that's why we hired 1,200 workers. Okay, people, they underestimate us in an inappropriate way. A thousand 200 workers, and they received a value of sixty million euros! How much does it cost to open a job? Did they open it because of those 1,200 workers or to earn money? How much did they earn when they built that business space and issued that business space? These are simple calculations, which can be reached very quickly and to see how enormous they are. Let me remind you of the Mercator. The Mercator was then sold for 15,000,000, as I recall. Because of the law that was in force, they had the right to 50% discount if they gave it all up all of a sudden. They did it. "Merkator" immediately returned all the funds invested and earned after construction, only by issuing the business space. Among other things, that is how Dragan Gilas was given the right to build a building and earn about 4.5m euros. Do you know how simple it is to get rich in Belgrade? You get a location, no dinars. Not everyone can get a location, just the ones they choose. You get a location, based on the location you go to the bank and you look for credit, project and all; they give you credit, you build, no dinars or with the participation you cover without major problems. When you're done, sell. And you know how things are in construction – one-third work, one-third material, and one-third is profit. That's how it's always been. I think the situation might be a little different now, but it doesn't matter that much. So if it's worth a million, 300,000 euros in your pocket. It is not a big problem to see how the fight against crime and corruption will be resolved. That's what I'm saying because of members of the Democratic Party. Just look at the members of those so-called. tender committees. Take a list, see what they had before, what they have today, and very soon you'll get into a situation to see that they didn't find out either I don't know what kind of smart thing or a hole in a potty; they simply came up with the opportunity to rob this country, to do huge damage to the state, and to put the difference in their pockets. Because if you have a man who's mayor today, who makes $230,000 a day, then what are we talking about here? Come on, guys, you know Dragan Gilas... In fact, you didn't even know him until he became Director of the National Office. Ask him for a simple thing, as well as Bojidar Djelic, to show him a tax return. When did he start filing tax returns? Things will be very clear. This man, the mayor, how can the citizens of Belgrade trust him? They trust him because to the most extent he covers that media space, he does marketing, his companies do marketing. Then agencies make commercials, campaigns aimed at tricking citizens of Belgrade. You understand each other well. Tell me, how is it possible to take a picture like this? It shows. Is this really a bridge? Are you ready to come with me to cross that bridge? We'll send Gilas to go first, and then we'll follow him. What's this? Do you remember, Mr. Mrkonjic, in 2001, commercials on TV – mom and dad hugged, children waving, headed for the sea. He says, next year we'll buy a car, then we'll get a loan to build a house. Bozidar Djelic adds that we will probably come to Europe tomorrow (or some tomorrow) etc. On TV, we are only swept by these ads: Nenad Bogdanović with that bridge on Adi Ciganlia, and then Mladjan Dinkic... You know he's an unseen con artist, it's God forbid, he cheated on Zoran Djindjic with the National Savings. Smacked him, came and invested in the National Savings Bank. When he realized it was Young Dinkic's private business, it was too late. The fact is that Mladjan Dinkic robbed the state; our state reserves at Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, and from that bank Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic and other tycoons take money and buy businesses around Serbia. Mladjan Dinkic, smart and capable. It's not smart or capable, it's thieving, it's crime, it's robbing the state. That's why, Mr. Carrot, we can't stand behind this. We want corruption and crime cleared up. We do not want to cover previous crime, because we are sure of one thing – until things are settled, Serbia cannot move forward. We want Serbia to move forward. That's why we have to deal with crime and corruption. So before this, clear up the situation in the travel industry, see how this debt was made, whether it has responsibilities, and if it does, those responsible must bear it. When you do, ask us to stand behind projects like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21538	Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21539	It's much easier for me than for other ministers, probably, because here in the parliamentary benches there are three previous ministers. I don't like talking about ex-people. Mr. Todorovic said well, I am the oldest among them. Maybe he'll be the minister again tomorrow. That's one of the reasons I'm doing this. I don't want to talk about rebuilding the country anymore, but you've taken a good example, rebuilding the country. That's another motive and the reason I'm... It was the last major project I led, of course, with the help of Mr. Todorovic and a whole series of other people. Only if we all go together, all state authorities, first high home, then government, then ministers, then businesses, can we have results in something we said was important. That was a very important reason. That's right, in rebuilding the country we were all like one, and that's why we had results in far worse terms as money, in far worse conditions regarding environments, with no money from international credits, in the beginning without dinars, which is often being transferred to me, but now it's slowly forgotten, without the dinars in the register for the realization of a project that meant a lot to Serbia. That's what makes me think that now that the conditions are far better than when the whole world stands with money behind these projects, I'm asking you for unity, I'm asking that we be unique on this project, respecting all the criticism you've been talking about. That's the point. I'm convinced, and in that context I mentioned another Krasic, because that's how I can tell him, it's a positive criticism, but now I'm going to go back to some of the details you've been talking about here. You were a minister and you know what it looks like. The decision, of course, was made. I wasn't influenced by my party buddies or anyone else. Here, Mr. Rade Obradovic had the most impact. It affected me to know that we can do more than we've done so far and that there's something people can do to help that team. That was crucial, and that's why I accepted this. As for the time you were talking about, in 2004 - 2007, two budget committees were investigating, from what you were talking about, from 80 million euros in debt to these 250 or 300. Because in 2008, no debts were made, the final bill was adopted, I didn't say yesterday, road companies. And that's why we brought the program only two weeks ago, so that what happened in the previous years doesn't happen and we've fully defined how this year's road company is going to work. We haven't changed all the rules that rule there, you know it better than I do, but we'll change that too; tenders, special orders, etc. and a whole series of these jobs. That's what I'm taking out the toll. All this stuff you said I know very well, that's why I'm doing it. That's why we've separated the segment of the highway outside the influence of the people who are now in the road company, so they can do their jobs and not be burdened by what you're talking about right now, and we're going to finally examine this all the way to the end. Behind me in this government, there won't be any loose ends. You'll know who's responsible for what and who's doing what, but you have to give it time. That means -- if now, the better you know than I do, we don't finish that highway, we're gonna go around, Corridor 4, that's the one that's going through Romania and Bulgaria, we're gonna lose time, and we're already on the verge of time, you know that well. That is why I insist and ask that we all stand behind this project, even if you have singled it out, although you have already stopped in your discussions, even if Dr Krasic was in favour, to stand behind this project uniquely and to realize it. Without it, there's no realisation of the project. I'm not saving anyone, I'm not taking anyone down, I'm aware of my responsibilities, and that's what I said on the first day here. I ask you to support this project, because these laws are a prerequisite so that the tolls can continue to work. No more questions, I'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21540	Gentlemen of the SRS, only a notification: the applicant for the amendment has two minutes and the parliamentary group is still seven minutes away, and Mr Zoran Krasic and Dragan Todorovic have come forward. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Replica. You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21541	Mr. Mrkonjic, as far as this discussion of yours is concerned, I can only conclude the simple thing – in 1999, 2000 it could, because it was fair, and now it's completely different circumstances, things have been done unfairly. The very fact that you say you've singled out the "Serb Road" highway, or Corridor 10, says you don't trust the team. I totally agree with that. I'm absolutely sure you're right and they can't be trusted, because over the past nine years, they've abused their official position and damaged this country. However, there are some things we need to know, regardless of the state's priority. What you've singled out and what's going on, that's the point, because it's a crime. You say, two budget inspections; well, ten budget inspections... But, Mr. Mrkonjic, the Law on Roads is very clear – no job in the travel industry could be obtained without bidding. There's nothing to talk about. Was it bid or wasn't it? It wasn't. Well, I was president of the Council in the Directorate by June 2001, and the Council didn't meet once, and do you know how much work was done until then? What is now asked here as a question – who will start the responsibility of the budget inspection? They may have recorded everything, but somewhere they care, they're in the drawer somewhere, and until today, it's not taken out of the drawer. It is impossible, Mr. Mrkonjik, you understand that, the law says – bid. Secondly, the decision is made by the Council in the Roads Directorate. I was president of that council by June 2001, and he didn't meet one single time. What's that? Crime, serious crime. Tens of millions of marks are in circulation. No one's head hair... In fact, it's likely that the budget inspection has come to this. She did not go to the prison because she did not have a nice haircut; not because of it, but because the budget inspection found the minister's responsibility. How? (President: I thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Just one more sentence. Because Tika Timotijevic said - I received orders directly from Maria Rushete, and he had no right to make any remarks. And he was aware that it was done under the law, however, he could not react.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21542	The word has an amendment holder, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21543	Thank you. The amendment shall be submitted to Article 5. Like last time, we predicted that the word “sequential ” would be replaced by the word“ eighth. ” The government, in its explanation, says the amendment is being rejected because it is necessary to implement the loan as soon as possible. However, this is contrary to the very reason in the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Uncredited Bank", where credit is said to be realised by 29 November 2009. There was plenty of time, and I think the government could accept this amendment. Only for this short time would I remind the representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular Minister Mrkonjic, he probably did not have the opportunity to hear that yesterday the representatives of the Democratic Party in the Assembly, particularly Mr Micunovic and Mr Sutanovac, promoted the project "Green Transverse", a very important corridor, which, according to Mr Sutanovac, goes from Ankara to Vienna. You know the Turks have been stopped at Vienna. Otherwise, according to American Congress, it's a corridor through which Islamic terrorists and narcotics go west and west Europe. On the direct question of Mr. Micunovic about Turkey's influence on the Balkans, Mr. Sutanovac answers: "Something that is definitely common to all Southeast European countries, I do not say to the Balkans, I think that this should belong to Vienna, even to me, perhaps still, is the one security sector that exists from Ankara, the one that comes to Vienna itself. “ So it’s a quote. Next, Mr. Sutanovac says: “In this sense, Turkey is one of the perhaps most important countries in our space. “ It is the resuscitation of the old theory and concept of Turkey's "dead hands" in the Balkans. Just so you know, among other things, what projects are being promoted by representatives of the Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21544	Thank you. Mr. Krasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21545	On the occasion of this amendment to this second bill, I would continue where I left off earlier. You know, the public in the Republic of Serbia is well aware that there was some reconstruction of an airport and that the ficus was several hundred thousand dinars, that the sugar and coffee spoon was several thousand dinars and that simply cannot be erased from the public. It's simple, it can't be deleted. It can't be erased that the Chumes deliberately bought machines to pave the way, get jobs, pave the way. Neither can the DOS dispute be erased over the Greek-based Olympics, why the late road is late. What would my countrymen from the south say, “where there is money, there is no money. ” Where did the money go? The trip paid, it's gone, they don't have any money. Since 2001 a large number of loans have been granted for the travel economy; just to remind you, they were those with the IDA conditions, they were the ones for the development of the local network, they were the freeway and they were the main ones, etc. It is not difficult to conclude, Serbia was taking loans from the World Bank and other international financial institutions. These loans have been spent, there are no miles and then the question is, what's been done with the money? Now we know that there are obligations to the travel economy and now the question is, do we pay the same thing twice? The passengers didn't take it, and then who could have taken it? Of course, whoever was where the fund was, where the bill is, where the money is, the one who decided, the one who didn't call the tenders. It is no secret that Pajtic is working in the same way as Gilas in Belgrade, walking along the street and saying – a child, this is to be paphaled in two days. Of course we're right to ask what's going to happen. The state has a guarantee for something of its own. I'm just surprised, Mr. Grouchy, that you want to go over all of this and set some, apparently, higher goals. Who should we trust, people? Who should we trust? When Djelic came, he had no dog to bite him for, so everyone believed him. After three years, a major shareholder, 11,000,000 euros! So the loan was taken, the money was spent, the debt to the passengers remained, and then the two questions were inevitably raised: either it was done more than it was supposed to be, or someone took the money? Then how is it possible to keep the debt? I would draw attention, if we didn't turn out to be talking to Mr. Mrkonjic and bypassing the Ministry of Finance, there is a member of the Public Debt Act, under which your ministry is obliged to take care of the public debt and manage that public debt. We never hear your opinion. You always say – we belong to a group of middle-indebted countries. Those magazines dealing with the economy and finances abroad say we are extremely in charge as a country. A month ago, we read you an article from a Financial Times, which is what it's called, and now you have to catch it again. Stay away from those little things to me, I'm a little bigger man. You don't really know what they're writing abroad about us, do you? Looks like you're trusting this dragan jilas campaign that everything's nice. Nice, nice, left. Don't do that, people. Don't say that. Thirty billion you owe, you've got a vault block. You haven't compensated. Why? You probably can't even make up for it. How many thousands of companies are under lockdown? What's the total amount of the blockade? You smile, turkey dots don't work and we move on, we push on. Where else? In the ambis? We're already in an ambience, no one's informed you. You saw them change containers at night in Zemun. A new container type. Please, the city council has been asking for years to change the containers, how does that change last night? Come on, please, let the election be called all the time, local, supplemental; every 15 days in every place to discuss the election, and then you'll do something, not block everything nicely, and when the election starts, come on, let it go. A promise of crazy joy. Everything comes toll later. How's he coming to collect? Through the borrowing law, through the guarantee laws. What's the state guaranteeing now? That this obligation will be settled. The state needs to guarantee that there will be an even commitment, but the state can't guarantee it if that obligation created by a state turns someone into a personal income. How many of these loans will go to Dragan Gilas's agencies to promote Corridor 10? You didn't ask a question. Just to remind you, he was the director of the National Office, and then he was the minister without a portfolio for the NIP, and we still don't know where the money from that National Investment Programme is. You're fighting inside the government, you're fighting, you're fighting, who's gonna have a hand over that money, and you've got a special minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21546	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. You're done with time. The word is Mr. Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21547	I thank you, Madam President, my fellow vice president, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, Mrs Dragutinović, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for reporting on the amendment, but also my colleague Mrkonjic called me in his address to the MPs. You, Mr. Carrot, have the strongest opposition here. Because you said yourself that you have three former ministers who are here, among other things, to control you. I loved that story of yours about your ex and future because I had a chance to see you guys when you were current, so how you were leaving, so I watched you when you were on the "backer ball," and now you're back here with us, in the first place. We absolutely welcome the importance of this law and the importance of infrastructure, as well as the idea of investing in infrastructure. Without good infrastructure, there's no investment. On the other hand, we've talked a lot about the structure and the way it comes to the gross social product in the structure of our economy. This time of crisis has significantly changed the way in which our economy will function in the years when this crisis is over. It is obvious that the way our economy has functioned so far, where domestic demand has been one of the largest sources of growth in gross social product, will not be able to show itself in the future and that such projects, such as infrastructure, will be extremely important for the future development of our economy and for the economic stability of the entire country. What you didn't tell us today, and not two days ago when we spoke in principle... Budgetary inspection, state audit, police and some judicial investigations are under way, will determine whether there are criminal responsibilities, but the fact is that some long road companies remained behind each government. We can trust you, but some former ministers, less nice or nice, have talked here about believing their word. What we need is a legal basis and a legal, institutional guarantee that in two years, four, when you are one day... You'll have to be ex someday, too; I'm sorry, but that's gonna happen sometime. What's our guarantee that it won't happen again? And so far, the law under which the Roads Directorate has given its plan has been in place, the government has approved it, we have received it as one-and-a-half in the budget, the parliamentary majority voted for it, and when the final bill appears, it does not fit what is scheduled. It's impossible that incomes don't match expenses. How do these debts come about? What is the guarantee that this will not happen again, that is, how do you guarantee, except in your own word, that this will not happen? The second thing, in times of crisis, is a serious problem, financial resources. That's a fact, but you said that a few days ago, and we talked here more than two months ago about it. There are several loans that have been agreed; the government has signed them, the Assembly has ratified them, the state pays certain commitments that they make, and they remain because the state and the relevant institutions are unable to realise these loans. I listed a few, you as a resolute minister, I'm sure you have even more information – bypass, "Gazela", bridges. For example, "Gazala" was on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament almost a year ago. That's when the contract was ratified, and that's when they got the conditions to withdraw. As far as I know, those funds are still reserved in the bank account with which we made the deal. What are the guarantees that these situations will not be repeated? Because it sounds pretty amazing to me that the Roads Directorate will now be able to service a loan like this and at the same time do all the current jobs it's bound by law. That's one question. The second question is: what is the problem with institutions (and what is to be done here), so the loans, in addition to all these painful procedures, negotiations and everything else, are not realised when they are signed? These are two key questions to which the debate on this law and this particular amendment should give us answers. Otherwise, it will be whether we trust you or not. One resolute minister will be less energetic, the other a little more, but institutional matters will not be resolved and that will remain a key problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21548	Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21549	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, my parliamentary group and I said what we had in the principle debate. I didn't mean to answer the word in particular, that you didn't provoke me. I didn't want to get involved in this debate between you and your former coalition partners, but I remembered one of your statements yesterday, and that's why I'm answering. We resented you for not knowing how these debts were created and who was responsible and we resented that there is no interest in the law and the nearer conditions of the loan. Mrs Dragutinovic explained this, but, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, the fact is that the Roads Directorate, when Zivkovic's government left, was the data of Mrs Dragutinovic, left a billion dinars of debt. That was about 15m euros at the time. It was already the euro back then. It's operational money and it's not really long. That's the end of 2003. At the end of 2005, the debts of the directorate amounted to nine billion euros. That's a lot of money, that's ten times that, nine times that, that's 100 million euros. From 2005 to 2006, these debts jumped to 20 billion dinars, already 200,000 euros. It is the government that you then supported, the minority government, the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. What happened in 2004? We know, there were presidential elections and you had some unsuccessful candidate, Kostunica had an even more unsuccessful, the Martian, it was paved, it was paved, so the elections came again, parliamentary and presidential; there was that referendum campaign, and it was paved, and the debts came to 300,000 euros. Now the citizens of Serbia should pay for it. In essence, Serbian citizens should pay for the election campaigns of previous governments. Mr. Obradovic says: What is the guarantee that future Serbian citizens will not pay for pre-election asphalting? You are now in a position to pave and you will be in a position, there is a good chance when the next election comes. What was happening in a local campaign in Prijepolje, where it was paved last year, and you were the minister, what was happening, to build, say, a road in Serbia's "emirate" in Mokroj Gora to private cable company Emir Kusturica, all of it was "asphalting on the phone". Where is the guarantee, Mr. Mrkonjic, that with the paved phone calls stopped and that future citizens of Serbia will not pay what the government is doing? You said yesterday in the paper how you went through the papers and everything's fine. So, a debt of 300,000 euros, and you as an expert in finance and police investigations have reviewed the papers and found that everything is fine. I suggest, since the president of your party announces the mayor's arrests, people will be arrested in a million, two, three, to hire you as some kind of paper review expert. I think you're so professional that you know whether the papers are okay or not. It just hurts us, which doesn't change anything, even though it's said to change. There are no guarantees that in three or four years, we will not again cover about 300m euros, from the next elections and those who are coming, and again borrowing future generations, just because the institutions do not function in this country, including this budgetary inspection and audit. That's what made me come forward, your statement that you've been through everything and concluded that it's okay. And if it wasn't right, it also speaks this agenda point and a guarantee from the Serbian state to 175,000m euros in credit, two banks, which will be paid by those who are coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21550	Thank you. Mr. Maras Free has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21551	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mrs Dragutinovic, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, my colleagues, I would first of all like to speak to Mrs Dragutinovic, I think she will understand that better. We have a state audit institution. In the principle debate, we said what our main problem was, let's see how the debts came to be. We have a state audit institution and I think that, with the support of Parliament itself, all of us, of course, and with the support of the government, we can send the State Auditing Institution to JP "The Ways of Serbia". We are not interested in seeing only numbers, we are interested, above all, to see what decisions were made, who took part in those decisions, who insisted that certain decisions be made, the structure and essence of those decisions that led to such loss. It is a great opportunity for the State Auditing Institution to justify its existence. It's not the only public company to go to and check something like that, but here's the deal. For that reason we can't support something like this, because, as our colleagues said, we really can't believe the word of honor. We need something to convince us that mistakes have been made, which is why they have been committed, whether political parties have been funded, or whether only some previous campaigns or something have been funded. That's the question someone else needs to answer. We are interested in whether there is a possibility that we in parliament – this, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, and I am referring to you as a question – we also see here once the State Auditing Institution, to hear what is done, is there any chance that they, as someone we have given support here in the Assembly, as someone we expect some results, some results and give? We keep hearing excuses from their side that "this is impossible, this is impossible, we don't have enough people, we don't have the capacity, we don't have the rooms". Okay, but it's been a long time, and now we have a wonderful example to show that the institution, which was founded to do something, is working. We don't care if it costs that many miles and so much, it can be shown in books, we're interested in who made decisions that made so many losses. Is that gonna fit? Whether it's the previous government, the one before her, the one before her, it's completely irrelevant, but I'm telling you because of all the public enterprises we're hearing about these days that there are losses, that there are problems, and we can't see responsibility. As my colleague Ostojić said, there's a great opportunity. The interior minister, however, denied that he had made such a statement, namely that he was misread, but there's a chance, bury a little in public enterprises. What do we have UBPOK for? To chase political opponents, as Mr. Todorovic says? I don't think that's why. UBPOK should enter all these public enterprises, where there are so many losses, and then you can get support from every MP here, when we hear – yes, this one is responsible, this one is responsible, these are responsible, whether single or plural, decisions are made for that and that. The decisions are wrong, someone has to answer for it. Like this, we're left to trust you or not to take your word for it. We from the Liberal Democratic Party are not naive enough to believe the word, so we can't support this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21552	Thank you. Mr. Velimir Ilic, then Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21553	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see I must repeat the story I told the other day. I think she's very clear, but some MPs won't understand the reality, but now everyone's telling their story. I repeat, when the road company moved into its organization, a debt came from the 10.2 billion Directorate. Before that, all the road companies, let's just take the Bridge, were social enterprises; they had to work if the government ordered them, the directors would be removed, people were doing jobs, and they weren't paid. Gentlemen of the People, I listen to these discussions, only that piece of road to Feketiæ was paid three billion, with roadblocks, and it was done in 1992- 1993 in those inflationary years; it was a job worth a few million, and it fell out of a debt of 30 million euros. Lawyers, judges, they were all in some kind of mood. It happened outside the government, one morning a blockade arrived, because our defense attorney didn't react. Simply, he was involved in it too, and that's why he was replaced. Thus, only three billion in one job have not been paid for over 10 - 12 years. Now these companies are private and now the privates who bought them are out of bills. At that time, the finance minister promised to privatise the company -- when the companies are privatised from the money, the debt of the roads that had been running through for years will be due. So 10.2 billion were transferred, both Dinkic and Mirko Marjanovic, from previous governments; six billion from the NIP, there was no money to be paid. It was said in the next financial year. Nothing has been paid to this day, and the works have been carried out. Travelers did the work, and at the end of the calendar year there was no money to pay for it. It has been said that through the rebalancing, funds will be provided. It has been said that "Mobtel" will make up for it. It's not compensated and the debt remains. The "roads" were given orders and the Governing Board accepted it under the government's directive, because the Governing Board had the same relationship as the Government. Five billion investment has been breached and the IMF has invested a protest that it will not respect the contract unless investments in Serbia are reduced. It was in November of the month, at the end of the calendar year. Minister Dinkic suggested that not all ministries do not reduce a bit, but that all five billion be cut off by the road, while returning five billion to the budget next year. It entered the budget next year, the government changed, there were elections, Cvetkovic became finance minister and said he would not pay for it, although it was adopted in the budget, and in the rebalancing it was thrown out and the five billion were not paid. "Current interest" has been accumulated... In addition, for the skates that came suddenly there was a three-billion-dollar warrant, and it was said that a loan would be taken to settle those three billion. Travelers had to, by order of the police and inspection services, do it. They did people fairly, a request was submitted for an international loan to cover it (I think the loan has arrived, has not yet been ratified) to pay for it. In value of three billion were special police orders and various other warrants, as regards the slopes that occurred during the year, floods etc. Let's just take the Municipality of Osecina, six bridges were taken away in one flood. The villages were cut off and, of course, a warrant was given to do so. So, feel free to control it, but I repeat, there was a problem. I don't know how it was in 2004, 2005. I don't want to be involved in those jobs that were done at the time, they were paved, they were mined, they were blown up, and so on, there was everything. I repeat, we have imposed order, but the government did not have the means to meet the obligations it has earned on the orders and the program given to the passengers. This was all adopted in the government, on the board of directors and people getting warrants and doing jobs. They have now come into a difficult situation, the Jugopetrol owes 1.5 billion. The business of Jugopetrol has been questioned and debt must be paid. Of course, they're private firms now. I'm surprised that in privatisation... Since the company's owners had participated as tolls before that in some jobs, it was agreed that it would be beaten, debunked. However, this has not been done to this day. Today it's private companies, with the threat of suing, and what has been done is that the debts have to come back and pay. Watch out, how were the tenders? The travellers have their own tender commission, which has been designated by the Management Board. Who were chairman of the board of directors, you can see that. Why didn't it go to tender? Let the one who allowed it not to have a tender, that there is no paper and that is done in an incorrect way. So, gentlemen, why are we here now discussing who's guilty, etc. I would suggest that one survey committee be formed to examine all of this, but since 1995 or 1990, let's go back. It's not right that now you're asked to interrogate some of the last years. Let's see what happened before. Why is 2000 - 2004 overrun? When a toll collection investigation has been conducted, it has been ordered that the period is not being examined and has not been examined. I think they were the biggest problems at the time, but no one allowed them to enter that period. I was told by the police - we have a warrant for the period 2004 - 2008, so everything turned out fine. Let's put it down a little by 2000, see what happened then and what happened in the travel industry. It's very ugly for me if someone does something right and it's all as clean as the sun... I think certain services can look at it now, I think that, Mr. Carrot, you've looked at it and there's been no problem. Travelers did jobs for which they got warrants. Whoever they were getting from, whether they were from the police, from the public firm, from the government, from anyone, they did everything right. I repeat, once the debts have to be cleared. Debts existed. Let's just take Feketic - six billion, and not talk about how many court solutions there are, they just arrive and the blockades are done. It had to be paid for. No one could not pay. I see now that some are accusing us of giving the quorum to resolve this issue. This is about butters, who work in the rain, snow and ice, and who have earned this well. The director of Puteva received an application because he obeyed the government's proposal, the finance ministry, to move to the following year, and it turned out they were paved in January and February. That's really illogical. These works were done in the fall, but the tolls didn't have the money to pay VAT if they were invoiced, they were asked to start releasing orders from New Year's Eve and to get paid. Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic said that. They have paid their bills, and to this day they are not paid. We have to pay for it, the government has made a commitment to settle these accounts. Turns out someone cut the grass in January or did some work in January that was scheduled for autumn, but that's the deal and that's how it was done. Now the man is criminally responding because he gave the fake paperwork in one year, and the warrant was released in the following year. So it's really not correct. If there are any doubts, if there are any problems, I'm going to examine all of this and check and see what it's really about. I repeat, travel companies have done their job correctly and gone under ice and are now blocked. I don't think there's one that doesn't have a blockade. The Bridge was completely destroyed and destroyed by such jobs, and it was the leading firm. None of our companies in the international tender could get a job, because they couldn't participate, but they had to come to foreign firms as subcontractors, because they weren't able to accept credit lines and enter the tender because the companies were in a blockade. This is the salvation of the travel industry through these loans. Whoever got them, we can question them, we can check it out, but, I repeat, no one's guilty if they go down today. You see how much the deluge at the Studenica monastery cost; it came suddenly, it went up the hill, it settled everything, it built up the river, it started to build an artificial lake, to flood after the whole region; people got an emergency warrant, and to this day, that dive is being rescheduled, maltene, for three years. Mechanization, experts are powerless to stop the hill. I think it's finally ending now. Let's just take a trip to Umka; do you believe, from so many slides, for example, the thickness of the asphalt is about six meters off the Sava coast, because every year it is upgraded, added, worked? The police give orders when they see the road sink. They immediately order the first travel firm to do the job. These are special orders, which can't be predicted to be in some year. No one's to blame if they start the slides. Thousands of houses were built in Serbia, because the slides took away hundreds of kilometers of roads. I remember, in the bathing area, in the city of Brussels, in the municipality of Blace, tens of miles away, it all had to be built, done. You started a story with the Old Mountain, you opened a ski resort, gentlemen. People are headed for the Old Mountain, skating, troubles have arisen. It was all supposed to be rescheduled, put in order for traffic to be established. Therefore, it is not the people of the travel industry who are to blame. You want to build tourist centers where there's no road and you cause slides, you cause dives, you create a series of problems. I remember building is allowed in the new market community, permits are given to build houses, mined hills, and the roads are gone, millions of damages have been done. Orders were given to do so. Therefore, gentlemen, I have not designed the Beška Bridge, but it has begun to sink the pillar, the first pillar of Belgrade, and is being rescheduled every year, millions are being invested in recovery and cannot be resolved at all until it is finally finished. Therefore, there are a number of jobs that cannot be predicted. There's no expert who can predict that. This is how construction firms were destroyed. After the bombing they were given orders to work, to build, etc. Many have gone bankrupt and have not been paid their bills to this day. The state had an obligation to settle its debts to them, as well as to the passengers. You know, when the bridges fell, you saw when Novi Sad was blocked, it had to be done. And there were bridges in that period. Someone asked the question why some of the loans that were ratified in parliament weren't realised, why it didn't start construction. It is true that banks intervene, primarily the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and others, because the funds are not being spent, and the state is at peace with those loans ratified in parliament. It can't be realized because the state didn't have money to expropriate, it didn't have money for project documentation. When you get credit, you have to do the expropriation and project documentation on your own. I don't think the project of the Gredile ravine, the tunnel has been completed until today. We can provide funds for construction, but we have to do the rest of the work ourselves, and we don't have the money, gentlemen. Someone gave the warrant, it'll be from the NIP's money. As is now said, Mr. Mrkonjic was promised a great deal of funds from the NIP, so he said - he will work the corridors. He's a working man. Why is it stopping? They don't pay off the funds. Travelers can't work, and now they've come to their senses and they won't, they have nothing more; they've come into the corner and they can't work anymore, financially they can't stand it. That's why they need one financial injection through these credit lines. For years, it has been done, orders have been made, all governments have accepted it, all finance ministers have made promises and failed to keep it. When the budget year comes, you know what it was like last year -- these come and ask to vote, they ask; they say -- where we're going to cut off, rip off the tolls there, because they were big consumers of certain means, etc. That's where jobs get cut off. But people get jobs in the tender and offices. How can five billion be abolished at the end of the financial year, and all the works have been carried out? What are we supposed to say? Since January, we'll pay you, and we'll lie to them, and we won't pay them for five years. They withdraw credits from banks and pay those loans by additional funds, and they can't receive salaries. Please don't tell a story now, which may be popular – someone stole money. If someone took one dollar, somebody say it there, so somebody answer it. I repeat, these are the commitments that many governments have earned... I know the five governments back when they made commitments and didn't meet them; they gave orders and insisted that certain jobs be done and they were done. That's why we went to the concession, because we knew there was no money and we couldn't follow. The Greeks promised a hundred million for the Macedonian border, for Corridor 10. They promised, and for ten years they've kept bringing money to the government, and they've never paid it, one single euro hasn't been paid, and they said – 100 million euros you have, count and get into business. We got into business. When the Macedonian border started, when we made the deal, we took off, we gave an advance, we didn't have (I don't know if Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic paid off) to pay for the expropriation and that's why the works stopped. The NIP has promised funds and no expropriation has been paid to this day. Albanians living downstairs have issued a court order and we couldn't do the job. It's been happening all over again. Now it was supposed to start Ub-Obrenovac's job, but there was no money to pay for the expropriation. That's why it wasn't made Corridor 10, because Serbia didn't have its own funds for its part that it had promised and was mandatory, when we were getting credit and credit lines, to fulfill it. Why didn't he start working the Gazela Bridge? Because the state of Serbia and the city of Belgrade did not allocate funds to pay for the part we were obliged to, which is project documentation, construction of Sava Street, adaptation to accept traffic and everything else. To date, the loan stands and waits, "silent," until the state provides funds. It's similar with the Pancheva Bridge. I ask you to change your policy in the travel industry, allow the finance minister to work as much as there is money and to be realistic, not overly ambitious, to go out with projects and we know that we can't realize them ourselves. You know the Temerina loop cost 50m euros, it'll cost. You know that a credit line was taken for the Beška bridge, because we couldn't track with our assets the resuscitation of the second part, so we had to use the credit line and this bridge that was used to withdraw the loans to resuscitate. Serbia from the NIP, and that's why I objected to where the money from the "Mobtel", the Robing Houses and the third operator, could not monitor the investments on the credit lines we received from the outside. To this day, that's how it is. She transferred debt from government to government, from government to government. If some minister and "you want" to excuse me, some dinar, so ease a little debt, as soon as he gives up a little bit and accepts the government's views, they all -- let's all go, and it comes to the next minister as a staff stick. That's why the time has come to pay. This is a work-related commitment. If something was wrong in some period, say exactly what period, who was in charge and let certain investigative actions be conducted to examine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21554	The People's MP Vladan Batic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21555	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, it seems to me that I mentioned in the principle debate that we are here to spill from hollow to empty. Those loans should be taken. What's gonna happen to that? Not all debts to the passengers will be paid off. From what will we build what is promised or what is necessary? Mr. Grouchy, I believe in your good intentions. I am absolutely sure of your good intentions, as I am sure you are quite naive to making these promises, because you have one negative legacy regarding these debts, in terms of what was going on in the Company for Ways or "The Ways of Serbia", as it was called. Let's discuss it, let's do it ten years ago, who made debts, who made malfeasances, who did the machinations, or the grandmother, or the uncles. It doesn't matter what government it is, what minister it is. We all know there's been malfeasance and machination and everyone's acting crazy. On the first day, you should have said, "I inherited it, and we intend to do it, and to pay off our debts, we need so much and so much money, to build what we intend to need so much and so much money, and we will provide the money in that way and that way." So, when you say that, with good wishes and good intentions, it's like those old stories about subways, about fast tracks. We have the slowest train in Europe, like "sightseeing", like in the Wild West. "Cira" was the speed for this. The one who's been missing for over 30 years. Let's talk straight, but that's what you should have said, as well as the concession that was broken. We don't even know why it's closed, nor do we know why it's broken. A mystery, secrets, who knows what it's about. It is also promised lightly – there is nothing from international arbitration, we have been sued for free. That's not true. Someone's gonna pay for it again. Every year, the state summit is painted, I guess it's nice, on its way from Belgrade to Saturday. Well, it's built like a skadar on the paint. It can't be made from Belgrade to Batajnica. We now have a theme: the participation of our peacekeeping forces in Chad within the United Nations forces. Because of that Chad and the war in Chad, there are no more Paris-Dakar relays. I suggested that we be organizers, because we have everything: thorns, weeds, holes, bars, forests, forests, deserts, deserts, an ideal opportunity for the rally to be organized here. Why do you charge toll when you go to Saturday? How many miles of real highways are there? In civilised countries and on highways, no toll is charged. Let's not say in a civilized, good part of the country. This is where Valentino Rossi would suffer to get past that stock. And then the highway, for God's sake, and the payment ramp. That really doesn't make sense. Why do you charge toll on the way to Belgrade - Subotica, I repeat, when you don't have a few kilometers, 20-30, highways where tolls should be charged? We can think of anything we want, but Croatia has made fantastic highways on a much harder terrain. The other day you had a picture on information shows: Sali Berisha and Hashim Thaci are opening some kind of tunnel on the Durres-Pristina highway. Well, there's going to be a highway, and here we can't solve the slide, as Velimir Ilic said! I mentioned the other day, let's go, Mr. Grouchy, to Deep. We keep talking about leaving, but we can't leave. We will in the 21st century Corridor 10. Who stole the money? Whoever stole it will answer. How do we secure the money to make the essential roads? Or to organize a rally of Paris - Dakar, so we can start making roads out of those pairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21556	The People's Messenger Zoran Shami has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Slobodan Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21557	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic and Mr Mrkonjic, I must say that the ministerial assembly in this room is currently very inspiring to me and that I have actually answered the most about it. In fact, at the adoption of the last three, and in fact four budgets, but the last three certainly failedly I tried to convince Mrs Dragutinovic to provide for much bigger money in the budget for Corridor 10. She remembers that anyway. However, if I thought she was responsible for this, I would not answer now; she is not responsible, nor wondering, is the Serbian government, or its president. In fact, it would be a very interesting analysis of why it happens that way. But before that analysis I need to explain why I think the construction of roads and the reconstruction of the railways should be invested, because Corridor 10 is not just roads, it's also a railroad. By the way, we currently have 200km of rails in the country of Serbia, where trains cannot go faster than 20km per hour. That's the exact information. You know, the biggest advantage this country has is its geographical position, believe me. Unfortunately, in some times it's also a flaw, but in peaceful times it's an advantage. If there's something to work on, something to invest in, it's exactly that famous Corridor 10. In order for our viewers to know what it is, the corridor leaves Austria, passes through Slovenia and Croatia, enters Serbia, passes through Serbia and the main leg goes towards Greece. There are two more arms: Budapest – Belgrade and Nis – Dimitrovgrad. It's Corridor 10, and the railroad and the road. So, if the happiest economic times were, if we were the country of the greatest economic prosperity, it would be worth investing in building that corridor. I'll tell you why. There are other areas to invest in, e.g. in energy, but there is one important difference: when you invest a hundred dinars in energy, you spend 90% of it to buy a generator (of course, I simplify); when you invest a hundred dinars in building a road or railroad, all hundred dinars remain state. It's all spent in the state, no matter who did the work. In the first run, people who work directly on the job are paid. On their salaries, the state takes taxes, contributions and everything else. They pay you, of course, not to take you to what islands, but to spend them in the state. In the next draw, those who earn from them again spent the same money, and when you turn everything around two or three times, you get to spend every hundred dinars you invest in the construction of the road staying in the state. I say, in the happiest economic days. Secondly, building roads is also a political issue. This can make serious political points. There's something called traffic diplomacy. However, this doesn't exist as a term for us, we're ignorant, but whether you're going to build towards Asia through Bulgaria or Greece is an argument, for example. Now, on top of that, we're in an economic crisis. I didn't invent it, nor did someone invent it today, what is done in economic crises – public works are being made up. So, even if we had five thousand kilometers of highways, and unfortunately we don't, we should invent what we should build. We have so much to build that it is simply amazing for me that, for example, in the 2009 budget, we had the budget for Corridor 10 in the Ministry of Mr Mr Mrkonjic, and that we deleted it in the rebalancing of that budget. They're kobayagi somewhere else. We're now dealing with two days of one small loan compared to what we need to spend on Corridor 10. It's a boat in the sea, believe me. If we were smart, instead of thinking about increasing VAT, about increasing this or that tax, it would be good to set aside money to build roads and tracks. But we don't have those brains. Or, now I'm going to say something, not that we don't have, we have people in the government, not those present here, which, I think, will deliberately not make Serbia build roads. When you analyze what's been going on in the last seven or eight years, you'll see that there are those who don't think you should invest in it, and it's no accident that the tolls didn't pay the debt. By the way, if there was any crime here, those who are criminals go to jail, I don't care what they're called, or what parties they come from. But that's not the problem, the problem is that someone doesn't want Serbia to get Corridor 10. Why not, I don't know. Is it a "green transversal" or is it Corridor 4 through Romania and Bulgaria? Our happiness is that Corridor 4 cannot be built so simply; if it could, it would have been built in the 1990s. Lucky for us, he can't. But if we continue to do what we do to ourselves, then really instead of the great, god-given day, the advantage of the Moravia-Vardar Valley at the end of that story will be "high". The smart government, I repeat, at the time of this economic crisis, if there wasn't one kilometer of highway to be built, would have invented roads that should be built, and we could have built as many roads as we wanted. I understand it may be expensive to build a highway through the Gredic or the Sitician ravine, but it looks like we're in the Vojvodina Alps, where we need to build, dig tunnels and cross some... , to build ugly viaducts etc., and it is simply about one plain and the only problem is to build another part of the bridge at Beska. It's the only thing that's seriously expensive, and all this other stuff is nothing. We have a problem with buying 20 or 30 kilometers. However, we have previously made it possible for various tycoons to buy the land, so they will now resell it at far more serious prices, but it is for another kind of story. So, I'd be inclined, come out Mr. Batic, to agree with him, to discuss this loan, which is certainly important and should be adopted, regardless of what I am in principle against any unnecessary borrowing... But that loan, let it remain written, let it remain somewhere in our consciousness, is a drop in the sea in what we should invest. It is mentioned in Croatia, which built a network of highways and invested big money in it, but the big money will be returned to it very soon. And we're wasting our time. It's not my turn to talk until there's no chairman. Thank you. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. That, I repeat, is our strongest force in the country. Don't let anyone get mad, I mean even stronger than agriculture. If we were to connect roads and agriculture, then another branch would develop, which allows you not to sell cattle for a cent, but for a dollar, which is tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21558	Thank you, Mr. Shami. The word has been made by the MP, Mr. Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21559	I had to call back, because one of Mr. Shami's predecessors didn't seem to understand what I was saying. I have not resisted at any time anyone who has been the director of a public enterprise or who has given orders, among other things, to the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". I really agree with what Mr. Batic said, no problem, let's get into the previous 10, 15, 20 years, as Mr. Todorovic says, let's see how these debts have arisen. I would like Mrs Diana Dragutinovic to confirm whether it is true, did the Roads Directorate have a debt of one billion to the passengers at the end of 2003; is it true that at the end of 2005, when there was already a Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", it was nine billion, in 2006 twenty-one billion, and in 2007, twenty-five billion? Is all that true? (President: Now you have to re-apply, since I gave my word to Mrs Dragutinovic. ) I'm sorry that Mr. Shami came out, he said one interesting thing that, I see, made Mrs. Comic laugh too – she needs to invent roads, so build them in a crisis like this. I believe that every MP knows, but also a large number of citizens, that there were ministers who went and spoke in the election campaign – we will build a bridge in your city, so when they find out that there are no rivers in that city, they say – we will build a river. So there were those who promised it in election campaigns. Maybe that's why the debts started. There is an institution that could examine why debts were made. That's why we're working to get the State Audit Authority to do their job, not pointing a finger at anyone, that's not our job. Our job, as MPs, is to say why we can't support something like this. Of course we want the Public Enterprise to pay off its debts to all those who owe it. But because of the future, first of all, this applies to DS, we want these things to be cleared, that we, that citizens, have confidence that such things will no longer happen, that there will be no debts that they will not know who is responsible for, that you will take responsibility for. I think the point is that we'll always support something like this if there's really a responsibility. Of course we need roads, of course we need railways, or trains that will go faster. It's all indisputable and we support it all, but we don't want to support anything unless we know why certain debts were created, who was responsible, what decisions he made. The point is, how have decisions been made to make such debts? That's what we're interested in, and I repeat, which is why we can't support it, by not pointing a finger at anyone, just demanding that the State Auditing Institution, which has the ability to control public enterprises, or final accounts, and to see how decisions have been made that have led to the debts of these and those, that job and do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21560	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to point out one thing that we're all forgetting here. For years, the travel industry has very little to invest in, and there has to be a lot of work to do, in order to maintain the infrastructure itself. See how much this year has been invested in road construction. You've seen, it's the minimum there is. Do you believe that all the funds invested in the travel industry – and the budget, and the funds from the NIP and the toll collection – are not enough just to maintain roads? There are standards in the world to maintain roads per mile. We invest six times less than in Europe for maintenance. Therefore, we want to make roads without the dinars, and we agree there the Secretary-General – let's go to the opening, you'll get corridors, promise work, everything (here, and now it happens), and nothing is paid. Then everyone gets out of the way, the minister stays down and he can't pay. These large investments go through the government, and the Public Enterprise Roads manages its revenues through the Management Board and what is foreseen in the budget. So they have a board of directors; you can't say – the minister gave it. The minister didn't give it. The public company "The Ways of Serbia" has its own board of directors who adopts the plan, the programme and allows for orders and justice of the government's orders. The government has special funds to give to the ministry – when I was a minister there were about two, two and a half billion dinars – for some jobs, for mountain and mountain areas, where something intervention should be done, etc. We haven't invested in travel infrastructure for years or nearly what it takes, and we want to do a lot. The only way to make highways was to concession. Whoever broke the concession doesn't mean well to Serbia. That was the best deal, guaranteed. Somebody prove to me that something was wrong. Now, according to such a contract, the highway works by Republika Srpska, works for Montenegro to the border with Serbia; Croatia has built all highways with concessions. We can't live with that. It says here - we have money, here, when we sell the "Mobtel", when we sell the Robing Houses, when we sell the third operator... It's all been eaten by a cat, and in the end, you stay in the lurch. That's what's gonna happen now. Albania is making 300km, gentlemen, highways and will end in autumn. Why does Europe insist on joining this part towards Macedonia? To connect it all nicely through the Bujanovac, and we naive, say, let's go there. Of course, we're Europeans, we're all here. And we're gonna step on the mud, we've got nowhere to go. In the municipality of Kursumli 17 villages there are no residents due to poor travel infrastructure, people can't come home. You remember what some places were like... We built a wire on the Old Mountain. How do you get there, gentlemen? The cable car costs money. A boy who likes to make it and build it, he did, but he needs to come. Do you know how much the road costs to get up there? Half a billion euros. How to get to the Old Mountain? How to take the buses out in winter, how to put them down, tourists? So let's not tell empty stories. Nothing was invested in the roads. He's not investing now either. I'm looking at the minister who's being tortured, he's being squeezed like a snake frog, and I know exactly what that position is, when everyone says, it's going to be from the NIP, promised, all the money is ready. So, what's it gonna be? Nothing, gentlemen. The man comes out, he makes projects, he drives the machines, he releases the works, everyone comes in, they take pictures, and then there's no money. Even though the tolls work, they work for nothing, so they don't pay. Please stop that practice. It's true we're getting credit lines, but we don't have our participation so we can use the credit lines. What we're supposed to give, we haven't had for years. One more thing - this amount of money has been spent since privatisation, and no road infrastructure has been built, no corridors have been made, no highways have been built. It is a great sin of this Serbia. Look for where the money was spent. What was going on at the NIP? Don't chase naked tolls that don't even have water. You know that Bridge construction water has been shut down for years. They don't have a dinar. Thus, in this year, respected friends, nearly four billion credit lines were taken for Serbia. Collect all loans -- four billion euros. Did we get a mile? We didn't. Where are the three billion, where are they going to go? Jelasic does what he wants, the National Bank. When did the National Bank report to us here in Parliament? Never. Is he gonna take it? They don't care. They're the state of the country. Ten years they've been holding that... Well, please, how is it possible that the credit line... You know, you say, for the stability of the dinars. Well, did we hear Minister Dinkic say that part of the funds would go to the economy? What economy? Who's gonna get it? How's he gonna get it? You force an import lobby to artificially maintain a dinar. What's the value of the dinar? These are questions that no one here has ever answered. That's why I'm telling you -- there's a lot of problems in the travel industry, a little bit of money, minimally. I mean, Mrkonjic, a thousand and I don't know what it is, 1,600 euros per mile... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... In Europe, it is used to maintain roads, and we stand out perhaps 300 euros, 100-200 euros per km. We can't change traffic signs, we can't mark full lines. There's no money for that either. So I ask you that all those who are in government today be aware of the roads. In previous governments, the travel economy was Serbia's stepdaughter,... (President: I thank you. )......................................................................................................... As well as construction, and it's completely destroyed and destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21562	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. You mentioned previous ministers, including Mr. Todorovic, so I must give him my word. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that one thing comes from all these discussions, that is, the problem we have not solved. Unfortunately, we should have solved it a long time ago. It is not resolved, but it does not appear to be resolved in any future time, and these are Serbia's priorities when it comes to travel economy, above all Corridor 10. Everyone here, Mr. Mrkonjic, has said that we have one problem regarding Corridor 10, which is the highway Bulgaria – Romania – Hungary. You know there are no border crossings in the European Union, etc. and that this seriously endangers Serbia, or Serbia's ability to make good money on the highway through the billing of passages, especially heavy road cruises, and then passenger vehicles, because we know that a huge number of Turks, and now Bulgarians, are working in the EU and that each year at the time of the annual vacations, it passes through our country. Now there is one logical question – it is interesting that we all know that our priority, priority of all priorities, is part of the highway related to Nis – Dimitrovgrad. That's the basic thing. It is an extremely difficult stock, it requires an extremely large asset, but it is the only option we have to solve some problems, primarily related to the possibility of Serbia surviving on these corridors, or on the EU road map, or Europe. Now the question is, why doesn't that happen when we all know it? I agree, Serbia is not able, there is no economic power. I agree, let's see that it is done in another way – through concession. I'm sure they'd be interested, or there were. There have been attempts, several times, to realize this project, but it looks like something's going on with Skodro on Boyna. I was trying to find out why it wasn't solved by 2008, when I entered the government, or 1998, I'm sorry, God forbid, I became a traffic minister. The main problem was the parties lobbying for one or another concessionaire, or one who would enter the business. It's our country's cancer wound. They're the ones who are trying to... I'm sorry, let me finish. That's a problem we haven't solved. Unfortunately, this bill of law also puts us through this problem and brings us into the same situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21564	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the proposing representatives want a word? Mr. Mrkonjic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21565	Just a few short answers to the questions asked by the MPs. I won't repeat what the ministers said, I really thank them. On the idea of making a special advice I came as soon as I was elected minister, perhaps because I am among them the oldest, but because of some party considerations (come out now Rade Obradovic is out, and he is one of those people) I stopped it. But today, I promise to prepare this proposal immediately tomorrow and that the ministers who are MPs will be members of this council, of course, if there are no party bickerings again. Now, a few brief comments. I don't want what Dragan said, Mr. Todorovic, I apologize. Shami, thank you very much. Okay, thank you, with some inaccuracies of Velina, some inaccuracies, I won't comment. The public in the work, Mr Obradovic said earlier, is the biggest guarantee, I say to Mr Maraš, or Ostojić, that there is no corruption. So, the public in the work and control of institutions. Just now Vela was talking about how the institutions in the Roads Directorate work. That doesn't mean there won't be a change in the road company today. When we adopted the program two weeks ago, that's what we concluded. The road company, as it is, there are foreign partners who come and the bankers have to suffer some transformations and changes. It will be a preparation so that the public in the work and the institutions can be controlled, and we can implement what we're doing now. Of course, I don't ask anyone for personal guarantees, I'm not as naive as Mr Batic says. There are no personal guarantees, only what is present in the institutions. As for the "green transverse", I didn't realize and didn't see yesterday what Mr. Sutanovac was saying, but Corridor 10 (and the other day I went into conflict with a Nis MP here, and then I realized that a man might not have to know), Corridor 10 is a highway through our country from Dimitrovgrad, just before Mr. Todorovic said it, until Saturday to Zagreb, and from Nis to the south. It's Corridor 10 in our country. It is Corridor 10, which was plotted in the 1990s in the EU, precisely because of goods coming from the Middle East, and that area that has about 200,000 inhabitants bind to Europe. It was the only reason, without any political implications – green, yellow, blue, red highway. This is today Corridor 10, and for this European banks and the World Bank provide funds. When we talk about funds, I also said a few times (but when a man is long in one project he forgets, so he thinks he'll be boring, that I don't want) that the guarantee before the crisis, which was created in the world of the moment when the last government, was for me exactly what the world banks are interested in these projects. Today, when the global crisis came, we have confirmation through the announcement of credit for this significant project. I said that several times, I repeat once again, the organization of the whole business goes through (Mr. Shami, the only thing I would not agree with is the National Council for Infrastructure, which was formed on my proposal precisely because the institutions would control themselves. The National Council is a council, it determines the strategy, the government executes, and ministers coordinate and work. It's an organization, and I don't know any better. For me it is a guarantee – the very public in work and organization. The National Council sets priorities. Priority is Corridor 10, highway, second priority is railway, third is Belgrade - Cačak, fourth is the subway, etc. That's what we've established so far, and that's good. So, credits are announced for 1,600,000 euros as much as we need; don't take my word for it, because journalists are taking, five million, ten million, not small money, but we still can't know that. What does that mean? This means that from August of the month, we can expect to have 600,000 euros of credit from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development from Leskovec, i.e. from Grdelica to the Macedonian border. This means that for the east, from Belgrade to Nis to Dimitrovgrad, we will have $388,000,000 from the World Bank in Washington, and that means that the Greeks will finally give the famous loan to the south. This means (response, also, to Mr. Obradovic, although Velja said so) that the 115,000 credits we already have, which we have not done project documentation and expropriation, are now doing so at an accelerated pace, which costs as much as it costs, that we already have and that in an announcement, for the second part of the tour from the Bubanj stream to Orlovaca, we have 120,000,000 loans from the European Investment Bank. It's money, when it's all added up, without the shares that we're now building by our own means. Also one of the former ministers spoke well, we must be aware that our country's participation must be about 20%. It's always been. That was also when Comrade Tito brought a loan from Washington to the Belgrade-Bar track. That's what it was then, 20% of the money we have to separate to withdraw international loans. This means that this guarantees exactly what I was talking about, that we can count on those funds from half the year, and by half the year, we'll complete the project documentation and perform part of the expropriation. That's where I became cautious, because it takes about 100,000 euros, according to the estimates of these institutions, to expropriate the entire Corridor 10. Just the bypasses... You know how much controversy has caused my claim of ownership. I wouldn't go into it now whose property it is, it's not a subject for me. That's how it is. So big money is needed, but we're going to do an expropriation on those shares we'd be preparing for construction right after getting international loans. There is above all, Dragan, a stock of Proseko; so, when we get out of Nis, that's the share of Proseko, until the highway is finished, to the Red River, from 20 kilometers away, where the project documentation is finished today. It's a share from Dimitrovgrad, from the border to Dimitrovgrad, eight kilometers, where we're now finishing the expropriation. And those two shares, with these $388,000,000, we'd start to build; of course that's the most significant share. That is proof of what international loans mean. That section of the highway, by all estimates, I see that MPs are interested, and ministers know better than I do, by those indicators, say, the number of cars passing by, etc., is not profitable, there are four or five thousand vehicles. But Europe wants to be profitable and that these millions of trucks that are wandering down Corridor 4, or I don't know where, Corridor 4 won't be ready for another three years, because there's one big bridge in Vidin... And the Bulgarians are talking, about, like us, arguing a little bit about it, so these trucks are headed this way. There's a big transit in that direction, and there's Dragan absolutely right -- a million trucks, 100 euros, that's 100 million. That's how it pays off. As for Mr Batic, I just answered him. I don't want to talk about concessions, because it's gotten into the process, even though you often pull me back, so I say something I think or know, and I shouldn't say it. As long as this phase we are now in, this mediation or arbitration, we agreed in the government not to talk about concessions. So I wouldn't answer to Mr. Batic, let it be a matter of arbitration. I'm just gonna say it again, so somebody criticises me, and I personally say that this job ends peacefully, so we can deal with these people, because it's no good when we go to a big project like this, with a fight. It's my personal opinion and I rule out that government. I think so. As far as unity is concerned, Mr. Shami, I must tell you that so far, with my naiveness or "insinuality", the government is completely behind what I'm saying right now. None of the ministers... That's how it's been for the last ten months, that is, since the start of the formation of this government. Why is that? I'm not getting into it. Of course, it's just proof of the importance of this project and I'm looking at it that way. If I were to go into detail now what this was, when it was going to be, then it would lead me away from what is far more important for this country – to do so. Finally, once again, I also said that about the previous agenda point, thanks to all the MPs and people who discussed it, accepting all the criticisms, Mr. Todorovic, which have been directed to me for the work of the Road Company. Of course, as Minister, Vela spoke of this part of it, with all my authority I will try to change these relations and improve the work of the Road Company. Corridor 10 hasn't been isolated, I just said that we've stepped up the Directorate for Roadways for new people, unburdened by current problems. That's why I didn't say there were thieves there, I didn't say that, that's the thing of the other ministry, whose head is Comrade Dacic. It's his job, I don't do it, but what I can guarantee, it's the biggest public in the business. I call upon all of you who doubt what I said... When I explained what I did, I said – I reviewed 20-30% of the documentation from previous years. In these documents, which are all absolutely paperworkal correct, which was passed under regulations, laws and documents when the Directorate of Road Undertaking was formed, I didn't see that there were any failures. Of course, since I'm not really naive, I have no doubt that some orders may have been given in one way or another; my task is not, it's the task of other services. But what I expect from you, with the support you've given me, with the criticism that you've brought about about the work that I'm doing right now, is that on this project, on this road, Corridor 10, we show unity, because it's invaluable for the activities that are going to be going on. From the money we're giving right now, I'm going to give an example, over two-thirds of them are going to go to the banks, because the tolls were taking credits, those famous CDs, etc. I insist, and I ask Diana, that's what I'm going to ask in the government, that these banks return that money to the road again and invest it right in the highway and the infrastructure. That's possible, with your support. If we're divided here, then I don't have a chance to do anything. That's why I insist there's no dilemma about this project. You'll know everything, every project, every job, everything goes to tender. And the first bidding, for that north, showed the absolute public in the work, there was no intervention, but I ask you to really show on this project maximum seriousness and unity, as you have shown here during this debate. I thank you, and if it's anything... Each of you MPs can, whenever they want, come to the Ministry, go to the Road Company and see material and documentation. In that part, I'm asking for your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21566	Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, Minister of Finance, please welcome The replica? [[Zoran Shami looking for a replica.]] Well, there was nothing offensive, but here you go. I think you two got along. Here you go. Mr. Shami. Excuse me, Madam Minister. You'll just have to re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21567	Thank you. Of course there was nothing offensive. However, allow me to express my disagreement with Mr. Minister when it comes to the state's infrastructure council. Given the composition of this advice, I must tell you that, honor of exceptions, I have no confidence in that advice at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21568	Sign up again. Here you go, Mrs. Diana.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21569	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of the People, I would refer very briefly to some of your discussions. First of all, Mr. Krasic is right. Public debt management is the Ministry of Finance's job, but throughout the period from 2001 to today, public debt, and it cannot be denied, declines. Although there was a depression at the end of last year, despite the fact that there were unregulated late JP Roads towards the roadways, public debt is not more than 30%. It's normal, Mr. Krassic. I'll do it again. There's no country that's not in charge. That is why there are developed public debt management agencies in the developed world. What's the point of these agencies if they don't owe the land and they owe it to them? In normal countries, when times are good, public debt decreases; when times are bad public debt increases, because that is how to neutralize the decline of private demand and the crisis makes it less painful. Mr. Obradovic asked (he is not here now, but it doesn't matter) what the guarantee is that history won't happen again. The fact is that the Public Enterprise, first Directorate, and then the Public Enterprise Roads, has increased its delays and debt over the years. In the opening statement, I said I wouldn't rule out some irrationality, but it seems to me as a layman, when it comes to this business, that there is some discrepancy between the incomes that the company makes and its obligations under the law. What's the guarantee that it won't happen again? Let's just say, one of the guarantees could be this program that we now have with the International Monetary Fund. The programme lasts for two years, and the programme clearly states that it will not allow generation of late or non-payments. In contrast to our budget, in a programme with the International Monetary Fund, when we talk about the state, the state also includes the Public Enterprise Roads. So, when we talk about State revenue and expenditure, what we agreed with the IMF includes the revenues and expenditures of the Public Enterprise Roads. Every three months, income and expenditure control will be carried out. I think it's enough guarantee that, at least in this period of two years, it won't increase later, or it won't. The state auditory house, Mr. Maras, you know it well, is responsible to the Assembly. Therefore, I suppose, if the Assembly called on the state auditory house, it would control the final accounts of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". I think the State Audit Act, I think it's Article 5, empowers the auditory house to do so if parliament gives her the task. I can say that the budget inspection was in the Public Enterprise Roads. The job has not been completed yet, there is no final report yet, but a criminal report has been issued on the basis of the first report submitted by the budget inspection. But the capacity of the budgetary inspection in relation to the capacity of the state auditory house is far less. Mr. Shami said this government will be remembered for being a government that won't build Corridor 10, because no funds have been allocated. We can talk about whether these funds are large or small, but it's simply not true that they're not allocated any funds. So, I certainly know, Mr. Mrkonjic can confirm, the fact is that the 2009 budget from the Republic of Serbia (I repeat that because it is not the only budget from which Corridor 10 will be financed) was set aside by five billion dinars. With the rebalancing, because the revenues are not as much as we expected, these funds have been reduced to three billion. I repeat, the Republic of Serbia's budget is not the only Financer of Corridor 10. In addition to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, some of the funds will be provided from the Belgrade budget for a tour of Belgrade; and also, part of the funds, are not large but are budget funds, from the Vojvodina budget. So, I don't argue that these funds aren't big, but it's not true that nothing is out of the budget. Also, it's not true that such large projects are made by means of budgets. It's true, when you have a normal level of capital expenditure, some regular maintenance, that's two or three percent of the social product. If you have large-scale temporary projects, because once you start a project, you end up, so you temporarily need bigger capital expenditure, as a rule, such expenditures are financed from credit sources. Note, when we adopt the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we do not only adopt the allocation of budget revenues, we also adopt the guarantees given to the Public Enterprise "The Roads" or the Railways for Corridor 10, we also adopt state loans for these purposes. So I think it's extremely unfair to say that it's only three billion dinars. Anyway, thank you for these discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21570	Thank you. Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21571	I must apologize to all MPs and MPs, this is something quite personal, but you will understand me, because I look forward to having made a positive decision. Mrs. Engineer Maria Rushetta was my intern. And she was a minister and she was a good minister, Markovic. I pray that when we give qualifications about people, so they don't repeat it to me tomorrow, we still take care of it. Maria Rushetta was a good minister, a good engineer. At the end of the line, there are results behind it that are good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21572	There's been reports of MPs. (Zoran Shami, from the site: Replica. ) I must remind you that we have just completed the first search of the bill, and then the promoters have spoken. I have the impression that the promoters really didn't insult anyone, that there were no elements. I'd like to ask you in the spirit that we've been working in all the time today and we're done. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. So, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. I thank the Ministers for their active participation in the work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Tax Law on the Income of the City (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and Slobodan Maras on the bill. You received a report from the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on a proposal for a law on citizen income tax, I filed two amendments in front of the SRS parliamentary club. In view of the conditions in which we are in place, the economic crisis, whose end is not in sight, we in the SRS believe that at this time the state should help to preserve as many jobs as possible, and not to initiate the loss of work by its actions because of certain burdens. A month ago, as a way to increase the revenue side of the budget, the government saw an increase in the tax on bonds paying income tax from copyright and related rights. The rate has been reduced which recognises the normised costs and thus increases the tax share. This measure of the government has hit the workers in the fields of culture, art, media houses and all those who provide their own existence and their families with copyright fees, but has hit NGOs as well. The sharp reactions followed immediately after the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Law. The Union of Employers of Serbia warned in its statement that changes to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens total taxes and contributions to the copyright fee have doubled, a difficult blow for many service activities and will practically cut the person's employment in many works. According to the Union of Employers of Serbia, an average of 180,000 copyright agreements have been reached at the monthly level in our country. A large number of unemployed citizens are the only source of income. By doubling the taxes on copyright fees and increasing the burden on employers, the Serbian government will force many companies in the field of service to significantly reduce the number of people involved in copyright work, in terms of general downsizing and downsizing of jobs. In this way, it was said in a statement, the state does not encourage economic activity, but it stops and chokes it by making it impossible for employers to work part-time, which in the long term will have a bad impact on the republican budget and on the overall level of economic activity during the economic crisis. The professional service for the Union's employers' economy has voiced the view that the latest increase in the tax and total burden of employers on the name of copyright fees is a counterproductive move, which will put a lock on the door by many companies dependent on the recruitment of fees. Furthermore, they say: while the economy minister has loudly announced that employment in this year will remain at the same level as in 2008, although we have over 30,000 more laid off than employees in the first three months of 2009, while raising the government's fees to the author's fees of tens of thousands of unemployed who are the only source of income left out of work, because employers will not be able to pay such taxes and contribute to fees. The tax policy of the state is such that there is an absurdity in the area of employment that the employer pays higher taxes and contributes if an unemployed person engages for a part-time job, rather than if he engages already employed. Instead of lowering tax rates to the unemployed, it stimulates employers to hire them, the state practically destimulates authorship, making the unemployed less likely than the employees to be employed in the author's work, because they cost more the employer. Such anti-stimulating rates are now further doubled, making it practical for employers to pay for copyright work on black, the professional service said in a statement and urged the government of the Republic of Serbia to suspend increasing employers' burden on copyright fees. Media outlets gathered around the Media Association have estimated that changes and additions to the Law on Income Tax have made it extremely difficult for citizens to make the financial situation of all media houses in the country extremely difficult. It was done at a time when, as one of the measures to help the recovery of the media industry, the Association proposed just to reduce and suspend the duties regulated by this law – it said in a statement of this association. These changes to the law, according to the Media Association, most seriously threatened further co-operation with more than 1,500 part-time associates, correspondents, free journalists, photographers from all over Serbia, who are an inevitable factor in the successful fulfillment of the social role of the media to inform quality and evenly from all over the country. The changes made make further co-operation more difficult for both newspapers and electronic media on all other plans that it has been based on part-time co-operation so far, the Media Association said in a statement. NUNS, the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina, the Association of Independent Electronic Media and the Association of Independent Media "Local Press" estimated that recent amendments to the Law on Income Tax have made it drastically difficult for citizens to position the media in Serbia. These changes have a particularly unfavourable impact on media houses that, by the nature of their work, conclude a significant number of authorial contracts, but also on numerous independent journalists and other authors and part-time journalists, newspapers, radio and television stations and independent productions. What is particularly surprising is the fact that they amend the Law on Income Tax of Citizens initiated by the Government coincide with actions led by the Serbian Ministry of Culture to adopt a set of crisis measures to help the media sector overcome the effects of the global economic crisis. Once again it has been shown that the absence of a comprehensive strategy for the development of the media sector results in partial and contradictory measures, none of which will benefit. Such measures necessarily result in a further loss of confidence in the government and the sincerity of its intentions to improve the position of the media. By reducing, i.e. by completely abolishing the normised costs of copyright contracts, the budget will not, in particular, be filled, while, on the other hand, a more realistic tax burden will come up with all the measures that media houses have already taken to rationalise their own business as a way of overcoming the effects of the crisis. In their statement, the associations mentioned asked the government of Serbia and the National Assembly to examine without delay the negative effects of the latest amendments and the addition of the Law on Income Tax and to return the burdens in relation to the revenues from copyright fees to the previous level. The Association of Literature Interpreters of Serbia has announced that it is indignant with new tax burdens on copyright fees. A concrete action is under way to collect 15,000 signatures, as long as it takes to abolish this law. We call on all art associations and the entire cultural public to join this action – the Association of Literature Interpreters of Serbia responded. This association continues to conclude that artists' fees are small and messy anyway, and that they are thus completely unscathed. Library translators live exclusively from copyright fees for their translations. This measure will lead to the collapse of those publishers who publish valuable works of cultural importance. We are asking the Serbian government to immediately abolish this law with inexplicably harmful consequences – the Association of Translators said. It is good to hear the opinion of ordinary citizens, if it is important to someone in the Serbian government, and it should be important. At the forum of an internet provider and a portal, an ordinary citizen expressed his opinion, here's what he said – the worst tax in Turkish times was so-called. He's a hoarder. It was paid by Serbian farmers, i.e. The countryless peasants, Turkish agomas and fugitives as a tax for the processing of their country. The Turkish harrass was one third of a year or 33%. This Tadic tax is twice as high and is almost 77%. Those whose word in Serbia, no doubt, listened went the farthest with reactions. Representatives of NGOs and citizens' associations gathered in Calemegdan on 12 May to protest an increase in the taxes on copyright fees. Serbia's partors wrote in a flyer that was shared on Belgrade streets on Saturday that in times of economic crisis, taxes and contributions were expected to increase, but that the percentages imposed on them were absolutely unacceptable and unsustainable. The flyer that they shared further writes – the fees are the vital power of this society, the backbone of many activities and the entire NGO sector. Among the fees is a huge number of young people without employment, whose part-time engagement is the main way to provide existence and the unheard insolence to cut them off with taxes. I repeat what I said when I spoke in the debate in principle. Representatives of NGOs criticised the government for increasing taxes, and then forecasted that if these tax regulations remain in force, Serbia would continue to drop to one of the most important exams it must pass as a potential EU candidate. As soon as our government is mentioned on the way to the European Union, it immediately does what is asked of it. Such were the reactions and here again before the MPs of the National Assembly of Amendments to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens. It is good that it is because most of those in Serbia are engaged in affairs in the fields of culture, art and information in an invisible position. The culture ministry has published an clarification of the effects of the amendments we are now holding, comparing them with the recent amendments to the Law on Income Tax in April. Now I'm going to read a part of this explanation for the public. The standard cost rate recognised to the author in the account of income, the untaxed part of the gross amount of fee, which has been reduced from the original 60% to 30%, has increased to 50% since the new changes. The standard cost rate originally reduced from 50% to 20%, according to new changes will be 43% and the rate of recognised costs initially reduced from 40% to 20% according to new changes will be 34%. The total fiscal burden depends on both the rate of recognised costs and the status of the author (unemployed, employed or independent artist). During the payment of the author's fee for unemployed persons, the employer pays the income tax 20%, contributions to PIO 22% and health insurance 12.3%, the employee pays income tax and contributions to PIO, and for independent artists, the employer pays only income tax. Independent artists pay their own contributions to PIO and health insurance from the net received fee, according to the tax administration's solution. New rates of reduced normised costs result in a new, higher rate of overall fiscal intervention compared to net agreed fees. Within the category of standard costs 60 - 30 - 50, tax rates for the employer are increased: for the unemployed – from the original 27.7% to 61.3%, i.e. now to 37.3%; for the employees – from the original 20.2% to 41.6%, or now to 26.6%; for the independent artists, the part paid by the employer – from the original 8.7% to 16.3%, or now to 11.1%); for the independent artists, the part they pay themselves was increased from the original 14.9% to 27.9% and now to 19.1%), from the net fee received. For example, out of the contracted and received net fees of 100,000 dinars unemployed and employees have no additional deductions, while the independent artist originally singled out 14.900 dinars, and now will allocate 19.100 for contributions, that is, he remains real 80,900 dinars. If this burden is to be transferred to the employer and is to receive 100,000 dinars realistically, it is necessary to contract a net fee of 123,500 dinars, i.e. increased by 23.5%. Within the category of normised costs 50 - 20 - 43, tax rates for the employer are increased: for the unemployed – from the original 37.3% to 76.8%, i.e. now to 44.8%; for the employees – from the original 26.6% to 50.6%, and now to 31.5%; for the independent artists, the part paid by the employer – from the original 11.1%) to 19%, and now to 12.9%; for the independent artists, they were increased from the original 19% to 32.7%, i.e. now to 22.1% of the net fee received. For example, from a contracted and received net fee of 100,000 dinars unemployed and employees do not have additional deductions, while the independent artist originally singled out 19,000 dinars, and now will allocate 22,100 for contributions, i.e., he remains realistically 77,900 dinars. If this burden is to be transferred to the employer and is to receive 100,000 dinars realistically, it is necessary to contract a net fee of 128,300 dinars, i.e. increased by 28.3%. Within the category of standard costs 40 - 20 - 34, tax rates for the employer are increased: for the unemployed – from the original 48.3% to 76.8%, i.e. now to 55.9%; for the employees – from the original 33.7% to 50.6%, and now to 38.4%; for the independent artists – from the original 13.6% to 19% and now to 15.2%; for the independent artists, they are increased from the original 23.4% to 32.7%, i.e. now to 26.1% of the net fee received. For example, from a contracted and received net fee of 100,000 dinars unemployed and employees have no additional deductions, while an independent artist originally singled out 23,400 dinars, and now will allocate 26,100 for contributions, i.e., he remains realistically 73,900 dinars. If this burden is to be transferred to the employer and is to receive 100,000 dinars realistically, it is necessary to contract a net fee of 135,300 dinars, i.e. increased by 35.3%. This was an explanation by the Ministry of Culture. Ladies and gentlemen, realizing that the situation in Serbia in the fields of culture, art and information is very bad, the SRS Parliament Club believes it is necessary to make changes to the Law on Income Taxes, with the amount of normised costs being the same as before the changes in April. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft Law amending the Law on Income Tax, which I proposed to replace in Article 1 point 1) the percentage “50” with the percentage “60” in point 2) the percentage “43” is replaced by the percentage “50” and in point 3) the percentage “34” is replaced by the percentage “40”. You will not accept my amendment because you have decided to raise taxes to this group to which this law applies. First you planned to increase them a lot, so now that you realize you can't achieve that intention, let's at least increase it a little bit. You're counting on slightly increasing the revenue side of the budget. I don't know if you've thought about whether this process may inspire many employers and employees, who have at least made up copyright fees contracts and paid taxes and contributions to the state, to regulate their rights and duties based on their work on the principles of the gray economy, i.e. to avoid any contracts and payments to the state. Then the control authorities would have their hands full, and on the other hand, it's a suitable ground for corruption, a disease that doesn't seem to have a cure, or someone in this country doesn't want her treated. I was already talking about the amazing tax evasion data; about 7,500 citizens tried to hide their incomes to avoid paying taxes on citizens' incomes. These are the most common members of the boards of directors, directors of private firms, or they are about the money obtained from part-time work. It's a few billion dinars at the country level. These things have been happening so far, and now that the economic crisis is taking its toll on the one hand, and on the other hand, the state is not showing understanding, but is doing the opposite, there is a great danger of increasing the evasion of all types of taxes. Whose damage will it be? I suppose all -- both states, workers, and employers, if they are discovered. The SRS Parliament Club believes that the government does not really want to apply austerity measures and that the ideas it has in connection with the increase in budget revenues are neither in the interest of the economy nor the citizens. If the government had decided to save, it would have stopped with the continued establishment of new agencies and other bodies that serve it exclusively for the care of the merits of party personnel. Just to remind you that a large number of agencies have been established in the past year, including the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Chemical Agency, the Traffic Safety Agency. Directorates and advices have been established alongside the agencies. If the intention was to save, all the jobs that are in the jurisdiction of these agencies could be done within certain sectors of the ministry and then there would be no new directors, deputies and other executive staff. In this way, public spending is greatly increased because, besides earning employees, money goes to work space, equipment, office materials. All this burdens the cost side of the budget and then the government has a great deal of trouble to replace it on the other, the revenue side. Of course they will, because it's a lot, it's a lot. The increase in the state administration is constant. In 2000, about 8,000 employees worked at the state administration, and today the number is around 28,000. Compared to destroying the economy, firing employees, there was an increase in government employees, because it's the only possibility of hiring someone somewhere. Due to an extremely large labour market offer, many are forced to accept any job only to survive from 1st to 15th and from 15th to 1st in the month. Working in the private sector isn't something to worry about. Most employers have a slave-ownership relationship with employees; profits are low; they work overtime without compensation. Many work on black, without paid contributions, until they are discovered by the labour inspection and ordered by the employer to report the employee. Understandably, the place in the state administration is a desirable job, but everything has its limits. I'm saying this because in early April, the Prime Minister went public with an amended package of measures to cover the budget deficit. The package was named the Plan for Economic Stabilisation of Serbia and envisioned savings in the public sector of 89,00,000 dinars and an additional revenue of 16,000,000,000 dinars, through the introduction of new or increased individual taxes. As for the part relating to public sector savings, all ministries are said to cut expenditure by 26%, bringing in 40,000,000,000 dinars. A 40% reduction in costs is foreseen for all budget users who have their own income, which brings 120.000,000,000 dinars, a reduction in local self-government transfers by 150.000 million dinars, a reduction in the cost of public enterprises, or a payment of 100% of their profits in the budget, which brings five billion dinars, as well as a reduction in the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Office by four billion dinars. In the end, a reduction in profit costs was planned at all levels of government by 13 billion dinars. All these savings stories are falling into the water, because instead of stopping new employment in the state administration, we are witnesses, minors, day-to-day employment, and that's a bigger number of people. As for the downsizing, it's okay to cut the profits of more than 40,000 dinars, because whoever hasn't received a single dinar in years, that money seems huge. In addition, many people in the interior work for a salary of 12,000 dinars, on black, without taxes and contributions paid. It is interesting that the Law on temporary wage cuts, i.e. earnings, net remuneration and other receipts in the state administration and the public sector in Article 4 regulates that the amount of the temporary reduction is paid by the payer at the expense of the public revenue payment and is directed to the special Republic budget fund. The funds referred to in Article 1 will be used exclusively to address the problems caused by the negative effects of the economic crisis, according to a special act of the Government. How does the government solve problems caused by the negative effects of the economic crisis? Is it by constantly hiring in the state administration new people in various agencies and directors? Or by investing in the production of Fiat cars? "Fiat" is privatised and has its owner, who is not a Serbian citizen. Or maybe loans to buy furniture? Anyone who saves, he doesn't change cars and furniture around the house. The job is what Serbian citizens need, employment subsidies, and especially in self-employment of young educated people who have ideas and some of their own money. Such projects should be invested, but not in a few, but with much more resources and in a much larger number. Smart and educated people will be able to realize their ideas in this difficult time, find a chance to survive their families, and even hire others, not wait for some social benefits from the state. They need state support at the beginning until business starts. The state should especially encourage investment in these projects of these people's enthusiasm, because this time is full of risks. They need to be given as much tax relief as possible and allowed to develop a job. Also, all abuses committed by those who receive funding from the employment state should be severely punished. I will remind you of the events from the beginning of this year when the owner of the Cyprus company that was operating in Leskovac in the rented rooms of the former Inkol factory took the machines out of the plant overnight and disappeared without a trace, leaving several unpaid earnings due to the workers. That's the case I was talking about earlier. It's a factory where two workers received a profit for October last year of 1.93 dinars! It is interesting that the owner received in advance incentives from the state to employ new workers, and he hired only 268 workers. There was a short time after the election campaign ended, as the factory opened during the pre-election campaign; it was opened by bombist Boris Tadic, announcing nearly 3,000 jobs in it. During the night, the plant is closed and the machines are transferred to Romania. Many Leskovci then wondered that it might not be a pre-election campaign in Romania. Such examples of abuse should be severely punished. Unfortunately, it is devastating that many families in Serbia live from social giving. From year to year, there is an increasing number of users who, through the Centre for Social Work, exercise the rights to material family security. That's what demoralizes people, especially those at their best, who could provide much. However, it is mostly people with secondary education, who worked somewhere and lost their jobs in the privatisation process. The new job could not be found, because many employers in the employment of water care to employ as young people as possible, who will be silent and working and when they are sick, will not think of going to sick leave and going on vacation as much as the employer of good will to allow them, will work overtime and will not seek compensation for it, just so they do not lose their jobs. The fact is that most Serbian citizens have become unsustainable. The vast group of people expects this government to find a solution to survive this particularly difficult period. A difficult period in Serbia has been going on for years, but now it reaches its culmination. Every day we have some extreme move of desperate people. These are the people who no longer see the way out and whose rights there is no one to protect and to stand up for them. They are not fortunate to be interested in NGOs and pressured by the government to do something for workers fired in the privatisation process. They don't care about those people. They wouldn't be very interested in those who pay taxes on copyright fees, people in the fields of culture, art, media, that this law that damaged all those that I have now mentioned are not damaged and members of NGOs. The public needs to know that these changes are now under pressure from NGOs, because otherwise it would be – we will tell the bosses in the West that Serbia is not on the European path. That's why the government is now changing this law faster and better, and that's a happy environment for people from culture, art, media, because I repeat, most of them have nothing to envy. I point out once again that the SRS has great respect for the members of all these professions, the people of culture, art, the media, and believes that because of the long-standing neglect of these activities, which has led many of them into a difficult position, the state should have consideration for them and reduce the burdens on their incomes. It would be good if this amendment were accepted, if the amount of the normised costs, of which part of the income to be taxed, were returned to the level before the April changes, so that the normised costs would be 60% of the gross income, for the second group 50% and for the third 40% of gross income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21574	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic answered first. I'd just like to let you know that we're going to postpone the start of the next session at the end of this session, which has obviously caused more interest than we've evaluated, and it's going to take more than 15 hours. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, please. At the end of this session, we begin the second session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21575	The draft law amending the Law on Income Tax is in fact a symbol of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, its behaviour, its understanding of its duties and obligations, its relationship with Serbian citizens, its expertise and competence. In this amendment of law, it's all contained. I'm really surprised that people who consider themselves respected economists, university professors dare behave like this when it comes to Serbia's economy. The package of measures to get out of the economic crisis cannot be changed for 15 or 20 days after the entry into force without seeing any rational reason. I would understand that these revenues were higher than anticipated, so that the Minister, who is the guardian of the state register, and who probably finds it difficult to take the dinar out of the budget, says out of his hands – so this was an excessive burden, we can freely reduce it, we will fulfill all the tasks we have set before us. You have determined that this year, for the first time in many years, you are filling the budget exclusively from consumption and taxes and contributions, not having any major sales that would make up for what no government has ever succeeded since 2001, which is to cover the expenditures of real revenue. Therefore, Mrs Dragutinovic, if I were you, I would never sign this plea for law-making. If you can't honestly tell why you're making the law, at least don't pass on your dishonesty to us, since we can see it. You say here – if we do not pass this law, it will negatively reflect the provision of the necessary material resources and other conditions to finance the work of state authorities and organisations throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and we are reducing these revenues by this law. Now you're convincing us that if we don't cut our income by this law, we're going to compromise the functioning of the state. I understand that when you increase taxes, you write -- if we don't raise taxes, we won't have income, but when you cut, you convince me that if we don't cut taxes, it'll jeopardize the budget, you can tell a child that, and it'll look a little weird. I don't understand why you've dared to appreciate us so little. Why didn't you tell us in two sentences what the reason was? Did you take something off the peasant, did you take something off the worker, did you give anything to people who didn't have any income? No, you're not. Out of the whole package of measures, you've only reduced the normised costs of people in some of the free activities. I can't be against it when you cut taxes, contributions, when you increase their income, but I'm interested in where the concept is and where the principle is. I'm interested in how much money it is. You say that implementing this law does not require additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and I tell you -- implementing this law will reduce funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm interested in where you'll settle those funds. Because when we write amendments to the draft budget law, you ask us to even the left and right sides, you say, well, if you take down the ones you're going to give, if you want to secure new incomes to someone, where are you going to take it from? Now I ask you, where will you get the missing income? Who are you gonna cut it to? Or maybe in 15 days you'll be loading us with some new obligations, which you weren't supposed to do today? Who's the one who's gonna pay more for the ones who pay less? Was this amendment to the April Law, when it was, the fruit of an analysis? Who's behind that analysis? Now who's stepping on it, what super-audition has done a new audit? Did you participate in both analyses? Something about your knowledge is wrong, or your relationship with us. You can't defend a cost reduction here and then, in a month, defend an increase in normized costs, because you're here in front of serious people. Some people know the economy maybe as much as you do, maybe they don't, but don't underestimate them. Especially do not underestimate people who read each material, for that is what they do. It's not ours, as the President of the Assembly thinks, to put cards into these machines to have a quorum, it's ours to read these materials and discuss them. That's how I understand the function of the People's MP, and believe me, I've reached my age as a MP. Someone put pressure on it. Who? Those who are needed by the government, those who provide peace to the government. It's not the Union of Employers, they join all of this, and their interests are subjective, selfish nature. These are the media and NGOs. Because to convince me now that translators have standard costs, I can trust you, but let me translate a book and tell me that I have 30% of the standard costs. For what? Come on, somebody's making a play, so we can work it out. You're under media pressure. Do you know what the state of employment is like in the media? When you give these kids a statement outside, do you ask them if they have a job internship, whether they work in these media outlets or if they're so-called. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. They spend a lifetime as part-time workers, a lifetime of work. That's what hurts me here right now. In order not to make B 92, without the public service coming at you because of this, you've made the bill better and faster, which you're not saying is changing what happened a month ago, but you're saying that existing solutions are changing. What existing solutions? They didn't even come back to life. Was there any payment on this basis? It may have been 15 days since the law came into force, maybe it's not, I don't know, I'll check, but it's very indicative that you've made those who will manage without you. And this noise of theirs about the fees isn't honest. They pay on their hands, they pay in cash, you have no income from them. They just want to stand up and show you – if someone can shut down the street and achieve their goals, if someone can get a bomb into a building and achieve their goals, they can, when they start to mention you in the media. All of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, and I think all members of the ruling majority, you're only afraid of the media, because the media is creating a court for you. Serbian citizens have an opinion on you based on what is being said in the media. You do not allow them to analyse your actions, because if they were to analyse what they would say about you, Mrs. Finance Minister, when in just a month, without any effects, you suggest that we amend the law that was the salvation for Serbia's economy. Suddenly, there is no more salvation. I doubt all the measures you've suggested. Now all it takes is for people who use mobile phones to take action against you, to gather 50,000 on the street and – almost, go extra tax on mobile phone. So do those who have some weapons or all those who are now subject to new duties on the villa you have introduced. You belong to a government that only sees if someone bad is going to mention it and give it up right now, because there's no science behind it. I would protect my science, I would say – gentlemen, you have made me explain this to the MPs; then I said that this measure must be brought, and now someone else explains that it does not have to. Well, that's honorable. I've had the chance to do it myself in my life, and see how much more free I feel and how much easier I'm breathing, how unsettled I am when someone can't impose something against my will. I wish you'd done that. Let the Prime Minister or Boris Tadic come. Who has come up with a reduction in these normized costs, let him come here now to say why it increases the normised costs, without any effect. At least it's been two or three months, to look at the effects, so to tell us -- there really wasn't any income, there were millions of dinars on this basis, many people were gunned down, many of us made dependent on employers, let's get it back the way it was. The MPs would vote for it. We weren't pleased to be attacked by the media either. This discussion of mine is a little heretic. Who knows who's gonna bring it all down on me tonight in his report. But I don't care, I have a principle in my life. I'm asking anyone I'm communicating with, or who I'm putting up with, or who I'm asking to account for having a principle in my life. Nothing life without principle. Because if this was a normal law, if this hadn't been touched for a few years, so you're suddenly increasing your normable costs, reducing your income, but you're making life easier for some people, I don't know who wouldn't vote for this law. There are laws that the opposition will vote for, for all that is a relief to the citizens. Well, we're not crazy enough for citizens to think we'd put more pressure on them than you do. It's just, I don't see here, really, doing anything serious. It's already time for you to tell us that the budget is being rebalanced, to say if it's been compromised, if we're going to have any new rebalancing, whether we need to increase new taxes, if we're going to break unilaterally to apply the Association Agreement, to make some income from customs. It's about time that as a serious finance minister... And I'm counting on you to be serious, you're just not in good company, you're in a non-serious society. I've seen many serious ministers fall so far apart. They profit much better from the unserious. That there is now a Shutanite, that he may start yelling at me and say that I am a rich man and that I represent some lobbies – he is better off. You know very well that I'm telling you the truth and it kind of burns you, like when you always feel like something's wrong. Because you have to go back to your science. You are not Dinkic to be a hundred years minister, while DOS is in power. They'll spend you. Dinkic spends other people. One who is not even up to your knees in that science will mostly run Serbia's economy. You'll just be the contractor. There were indeed several ministers before whom I could take off my hat; I counted you as one of those. The first time you agreed to defend the Foreign Affairs Act, I saw that you fully accepted to be the hostage of the government of Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic, Mladjan Dinkic, I don't already know whose government it is. So, no smaller law, no greater indignation. This law will pass, of course. The public will be delighted to welcome him and everyone will commend you, and the Association of Human Rights Lawyers, and hundreds of NGOs and employers will commend you. And, one, in the Court of Commerce, they're all under bankruptcy. They will commend you because they don't have to report workers, because they don't have to get into a permanent working relationship, because they don't have to worry, with fees, it's the easiest thing to do. Only one morning you tell the porter - this one can no longer enter the door, he has no rights, but no, absolutely no rights. That's all the reason. I'd even accept being held back because this is some relief, maybe for a hundred, maybe for a thousand people, some relief is. Indeed, this is not normal behavior toward the National Assembly and MPs in the National Assembly. This is just a sign that you're able to do everything when people press you hard and you're going to drain dry dreno and find what you're telling us doesn't exist. Is it necessary to mutilate someone else, to strike hunger, to block the streets and roads, to shut someone else in the factories that went missing in front of his eyes, so that you would finally do something human? Is it necessary for media owners to teach you about the economy and to push their workers, their partors, to be loud about it? If you lack votes to vote this law, we will be in the O.R., just to show you how much we would like to make Serbia better. (President: I'm sorry, just to remind you that you've used 15 minutes. Would you like to move on to your MP group's time? No, only half a minute. (President: Please. We're not against you taking better measures, but where is the responsibility for what this was done a month ago, and it wasn't good? Where is all this expertise, and what expert is it that's going to change our laws every month, and they're very important? The worst part is, we don't know what the amount of funding is. I know I don't need money to enforce this law, but I'm interested in the financial effects of implementing this law. So, not as much as the law costs, it costs as much material as we print, but I'm interested in how much the state costs, from where it's going to be calmed down, or what function is going to be compromised. I really don't accept, as a man who's 57 years old, that you write to me that some function will be compromised if we don't pass this law. No, by passing this law some function will be compromised. Tell me which and how will the funds be settled?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21576	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure? Then first Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21577	In this debate, in particular, we have the opportunity to remind the Minister and point to the lack and absence of any strategy and visions of how to fill the budget in this year or, better said, to fill budget gaps. The bill's proposal a month ago was an attempt to fill that budget gap, but you've come across public resistance, and now you've given us this bill, which, of course, is better, but there's still a problem that otherwise you'll be able to replace the poorly-filled budget in the past months and with the write-off of these funds. You're obviously a filmmaker and you're experiencing yourself as Harry Potter in the area of finance. That's what you said a few months ago, and yesterday's debate of the MPs called "Star barking". You know, there's this great home movie called "The Wonder Unseen." The man was trying to clear the tunnel system of the Skadar Lake by spilling it into the Adriatic Sea. But something else happened, at least in the movie. Given the fact that Skadar Lake is below sea level, it would be logical for the sea to be poured into the Skadar Lake. It's kind of a clue, and it's about the job you're doing right now, so you're trying to fill something up, but given your ministry's weak position and sensitivity to many social groups, you do it very often in the way that it was done in that film. This was about an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. You said it wasn't a public debt, it was part of a total debt, but it wasn't a public debt. Whether it is public, not public, this country is in debt for an additional three billion euros. Is the condition that this arrangement was concluded to freeze wages and pensions by 2011? This is more a question for PUPS colleagues, who have obviously agreed to it, but it is also an answer to who will bear the burden of the crisis, which will not end in a month or two, but will last in this year and in the following year. The pensioners and the employees will carry her. This is now another way of burdening against what you tried when it became clear that the budget could not be filled in the way it was planned by the 2009 budget, so you announced in public that the salaries would be reduced by 10 - 15% (those over 40,000 more, these others less), but you also gave up because of public pressure, just as you gave this bill because of public pressure. Is it the condition for an arrangement with the IMF and the sale of Galenika by the end of the year and is it the condition of the sale of the Airport by the end of the year? Is this arrangement, which includes 2010, the condition that 49% of the EPS is sold by July? If so, and I think so, then that should be said, because then that would be some strategy that this government has, or that's that vision that you should share here with the MPs, not that it's kept quiet. Through this law you can also see very well one problem that I am now pointing to, and I tried to tell you yesterday, and it concerns the transfer funds in local self-government. You will have great pressures, both political and real, because based on the reduction of transfer funds, you will be in a situation that many municipalities in which in the total budget these transfer funds are made and over 50% will not be able to settle their obligations in terms of overhead costs to schools, hospitals, etc., and certainly not pay salaries. That's definitely gonna happen. These aren't 30%-40% reductions for individual municipalities, that's a lot more. In the first five months, you've been paying off the funds according to the 2009 budget, and it's a lot of those funds already, let's just say... Now that you've reduced the individual municipalities, you've already paid more than half the funds you plan on using this rebalance to the municipalities, so the reductions will be up to 60-70%. That's what I tried to explain to you. I'll tell you what it looks like on the hat case. Transfer funds are approximately between 43,000,000 and 45,000 thousand. The total funds provided for the Sabac are 504,000. In the first five months, 215,000 thousands have already been transferred. When you take off from five hundred to three hundred, there's still one hundred million left over the next seven months. That's 13,000,000 each, how much they're going to transfer over the next seven months to the town of Sapcu. See how much reduction – from 43,000,000 per month to 13.000,000! Such a relationship, one to three, can expect a vast majority of municipalities. The Sabbath may be able to withstand such pressure, but there are municipalities that can't handle it. The following will take place: municipalities will be in debt to banks so they can bridge their own budget deficits. The fact is that the burden of lower budget filling, i.e. the drop in industrial production and the smaller social product will be paid by employees, in principle by freezing wages, and pensioners, by freezing pensions. This is particularly important, because on that wave this coalition was made, and on that promise that pensions will be 70% compared to the average personal income. I asked a question yesterday and I'm very interested in whether you have an answer. It is a famous 15 May regulation where agricultural pensioners who have registered agricultural land will not pay up to 12,000 dinars per hectare but 30% of them, therefore 3,600. A colleague, Maraš, came here with a specific example of an agricultural pensioner who had registered his land, 29 hectares, who neatly attached all the necessary documentation (the diesel fuel bills, fertilizers, etc.). Under a February 12th regulation, he was entitled to 340,000 - 350,000 dinars. He submitted an orderly application before May 15th, respecting the law and regulation, but was responsible for obtaining only 30% and for the regulation being applied retroactively as of May 15th. We have 187,000 agricultural pensioners in the country, about 25,000 more family pensioners, or family pensions. I am interested in how many of that number of registered agricultural holdings, which is the area, namely, how many states have decided to "grab" peasants, or farmers, and save money in the budget. Those aren't small funds. So if we take hypothetically that all 200,000 pensioners have an average of four hectares, which is some optimum and average in Serbia, it is 800,000 hectares. When you cut someone off almost 100 euros, at 800,000 hectares, you see what the money is. That's 80,000,000 euros. That's eight billion dinars. I don't think that's the amount, because I'm sure they're not all registered and they don't have registered agricultural land, but let's make it the tenth part, it's a billion again. The state is now becoming creative in this sense to save on one side a billion by bringing one regulation. Agricultural producers, especially those older ones, do not have the habit of reading "The Official Messenger" and it promotes them; artists join together and use the skills and media, the public gets excited, and then give in. They don't use computers, they can't even go on a website to get informed. I believe there are agricultural pensioners who know they're using a computer and they can go to the Ministry of Agriculture site, but they can't find that information on the site. There is no information on the site that this regulation was passed on May 15th and that someone who sown and calculated that if they had 10 hectares they would now receive 36,000 dinars. There is no such thing on the site, and someone who submits a request and asks for those funds to receive information that the regulation is applied retroactively. It's not correct and it's not fair. You may not know anything about this, but anything about money and inflows and outflows should be in the sphere of your interest. Maybe it's the unknown unknown you mentioned. You have two types of uncertainty, you said there are known unknowns and unknowns. It's possible that this is unknown to you, but I'm getting to know you now, that you know that this is a known unknown, so let's see how you handle it. It's not correct, not that it's not correct, but it's disastrous, to bring one such regulation on May 15th, where people are cut off by eight and a half thousand dinars, and then we hear from the minister that it's still pensioners, how they, after they've settled their obligations to PIO, can enjoy their pension and play with their grandchildren. First, someone with eight and a half thousand can hardly live, and secondly, anyone who is in the country works for the rest of his life and processes the land. In addition, it is a matter of pride; someone who still feels that he is in effect, regardless of his age over 65, wants to process his country; if he has reconciled all his obligations to the state, he should have a shortcut from the state, in terms of those funds that the state has promised, but apparently only in the election campaign. This law is the first proof that you do not only have a strategy, but also, in a tactical sense, regroup within a month – you give one solution and you claim that it is very good, and when you see that you cannot, you go out with another solution. The only thing I liked about this law was the conclusion that there is no parallel practice in the EU. Because, just that you have stated that it is European practice and that it is adapting to European standards... That's what you do when you need to do it and when you don't have to. The laws are not passed, I guess, just to bring them into line with the EU, but to make the concrete consequences of the law positive for citizens. Here, however, I must admit, in the first proposal and second, you wrote that there are no standards in that sense. So once again, I'm telling you that I'll see you in September when you process the third or fourth budget, or when you come out with a new budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21578	Thank you. National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, unfortunately or unfortunately, I don't know how to say it, but today, for who knows which time, in the same situation, we have to fix or go back to some things that already existed. You can't say that we didn't warn you, not only when it comes to this proposal, but many, many, many times before when you've proposed laws, that these proposals aren't good, that they're going to go upside down, and that one day you're going to have to get into a situation to get back to SRS proposals. Here, that's what's happening to you today. The question arises, if someone does it once, so let's do it twice, or three times, but this has become so serious with you that you're even wondering what you're doing as ministers, or as government? Is there anyone out there with you who's thinking clearly and who's supposed to predict what kind of situation we're gonna meet in? This is one of the serious problems since 2001 -- practically all of these dosovan governments, the following EU and US orders, just translate the laws, put them in the process, and the fact that they're going to break into Serbia's citizens' heads, they're not interested in it at all. There are parts of the work you should be doing, which, unfortunately, you don't. On the occasion of the previous point, you talked about budget inspections, how they will do their part of the job, which should help resolve some of the problems in the situation in which we are, above all, about corruption and crime. Let me remind you of your promises regarding budget inspection and "Nikola Tesla" Airport. You remember how much trouble we had with "Nikola Tesla" Airport, how many working days the Assembly lost by asking the government to send a budget inspection to the "Nikola Tesla" Airport for brutal robbery at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport. Now for a year, I don't know how long it's been, it's been a year, I can see that you're looking at me, at the end of December it took... What about that report on the budget inspection, why didn't you inform the Serbian Parliament? Why didn't you at least notify the President of the Assembly? You now also promise us that the budgetary inspection in Serbia's Roads will also finish its job, or in any other public enterprise, or even in the ministry. Maybe they will. I have no doubt that there are honest people there who will, in accordance with the rules of their profession, do their job, but I doubt it will see the light of the day, it will be in some drawer again. There's a time to change power. Then it'll all be charged. Our people say, "Whoever doesn't pay on the bridge, pays on the pot." I think you're going to have a lot of backlogs on the joint and the bill is going to be about the same as the one with Serbia's tolls, that there will be interest and everything else. God, it wasn't me in the skin of those who were responding at that moment. Unlike budget inspections or jobs that you should do spotlessly and thus protect the state, when it comes to some other things you are extremely fast. In the afternoon debate, I was talking about the fact that in Zemun the citizens themselves built a water line, they can't wait any longer and, behold, Dragan Gilas immediately sent these from the city's "waterwater" to cut their pipe. There's about 150 people there right now. It is part of the Zemun field that is mostly inhabited by the Roma; in this Decade of Roma, you now want to disable what they have paid for, the basic conditions, the running water; Dragan Gilas sent for them to cut the pipe. No one responded to the fact that Dragan Gilas was against the law, without a building permit began building the Big Brother house, that they then forged documents that were where the "Big Brother" allegedly was recorded, and essentially not a youth building. No one's ever reacted before. No one's ever moved a finger. He heard that the citizens introduced a water line and immediately ran to the Zemun field to shut down that water line. When will someone react and examine where Dragan Gilasu will get 1,437,000 euros to participate in the "Medic Group" (I think that's what it's called)? Where did that man get that money? Come on, Bozidar Djelic was a consultant, but what about Dragan Gilas? It's only one part, one company, it has 14-15 companies, it makes 230,000 euros a day, and it's gone to shut down the water for people who haven't had it in years! Now that they've got it he's run off to shut them down. In doing so, 50 metres from there, a road is built that connects the Blue Horizon and the Zemun Field without permission. What does this country look like? How do you have the right to ask any citizen for anything, to respect any law, when you do not respect it, and when it is not respected by those who are in the highest and most responsible places? All you do is deceive the citizens of Serbia. You're trying to trick them into getting their votes, counting on a short time to finish these jobs that are left. What kind of jobs are these? Well, to sell out what's left. This is exactly when it comes to these three billion we got from the International Monetary Fund. You, as a government, don't even think about it. The condition to get the government's approval to sell Telecom is to sell Galenika, 49% of EPS and to privatise the "Nikola Tesla" airport. And we're done with the state. We will only be here under the rent of various tycoons and foreign companies, which will dictate everything that suits them. No one's head hair was missing, and it has been proven that the NIS reports have been falsified, that the Russian side has been cheated by 100m euros, and it will not agree to that. That's why they raised the processing prices and we pay the most expensive gasoline in the environment. Who's that for? For a thief from the Democratic Party. How much longer, folks? And you pay for it. Why? To make a few individuals useful. When are you going to send a budget inspection here? Why doesn't Dacic send this seventh cavalry to solve this problem? He's chasing these municipality presidents around Serbia. All right, if they're responsible they need to respond, but put it up in your head those who are the most responsible for it. Here, you rob fifty, sixty, 100 million euros, you take away from the people and nobody. But if you need to cut the water pipe, you're here without any problems fast, so you can't be faster. It is important that this is said in the Serbian Parliament and is immediately sent to the Vodovod field to rule it out. It's not an honor, but I'm sure, and I have a solid experience, so that everything comes to its place, and there comes a time when bills have to be made. Mrs. Slavica, you remember that time, they'll just get hit, and then we'll get a chance to get that immunity board, like in our time, working full-time, although it's not working now. You promised to see what happened to addressing the Third Municipal Court when it came to Boris Tadic and his immunity. Even you here claimed to like to stand on the line; the line is there, but Boris Tadic is gone. Okay, he'll show up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21580	The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21581	Because of this point, you can start with that sentence - same target, same distance. It's just amazing how stubborn these Democratic parties are; seven times they need to be repeated, and only eight times they realize. You have to listen a little bit. You know, it's not good when after a few years you accept what the Serbian Radical Party has proposed to you, because when we suggest something, we take care of both the weather and the place and other circumstances. To make it more clear to the viewers what it was, a month ago, when you had a very desirable atmosphere in the new Rules of Procedure, which means almost empty Parliament, with one MP of the SRS (and it proved to be a lot for you), you quickly pushed through these regulations, including amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax. It is a regulation that was passed since 2001, which suffered many changes both in 2002 and in 2004 and 2006. You see "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" of 2009, under regular number 31, these are some of the latest changes. You usually did changes when you passed a budget law or budget rebalancing law. Someone mistakenly believes that this income tax law represents something epochal, something that will enable the government to provide large funds and thus finance what we call public expenditure, public expenditure. But the last time you changed these provisions, so when you turned around, you saw that there was no effect. Because of the last change you moved this area into what's called a black area – cash on your hands, past paper. It's not just this area in the black zone. Ask your customers, according to your estimates, the states and those from abroad who are watching you, if you find it easier to "monitor" what their analyses say about how much traffic is in the black zone. We have submitted amendments to this bill; in fact, we have repeated the amendments, something that we have endured for years, something about the normised costs of artists. So they're not part-timers, they're not 'Kursadzija', as someone thinks, but in the first group they're the authors of the Wyatt works, in the second group they're the authors of painting works, and only in the third group they're the ones dealing with interpretation. Of course, the government has concluded that she has lost the support of the artist. Bane Bumbar will no longer go to the Democratic Party convention with Mira Banjac and spit on radicals at a time of silence, but their fluid has worked, and it has come from uphill. And they say, "This is a disaster for our profession. So no more Bajaga, no more Mira Banjac, you can't find an artist where you'll order – spit out the Serbian Radical Party, solve the problem, you'll benefit yourself. And, faster or better, let the government change this law, enter emergency procedures to save what can be saved. How do you do that? You do exactly as we've told you for years what needs to be changed in the work of standardized costs. For viewers, for the record, we suggest that 60% of this fee taken, let's say, by an artist who's done some magic work be recognised in those normized costs, and what remains to be the basis for applying the rates of taxes and contributions. You've all refused. I'm surprised there's no Gore. Now you are this faster-better, by emergency procedure, that in this artistic world, among painters, magicians, actors, directors, you find someone before this election who will come out and say—the government is taking care of us; this government is protecting us artists from the government. Diana Dragutinovic protects artists from Bradic. Of course it's funny. Then the man says it's a matter of principle. It is an important principle, all taxpayers on citizens' income as much as they have to be equal, but what they can't touch is their legal position before the law. These normized costs are precisely this instrument, because it is difficult to measure the value of the work of art. That's what Kusovac and those others who understand each other, Kadjevic, etc., we ordinary people... Tax officials don't know how to calculate it, but you know how expensive the bronze is, how expensive the canvas is, how much oil it is, brushes. It's your normized expenses. What's art, what God gave, it doesn't have a price. We endure these amendments just so you don't devalue God's worship of someone. God honored someone to be a great actor. Of course, we don't let anyone touch that. They were against us, and they spit on us for the money you gave them, but here you see, they came. Why did she come? Well, we always tell that truth. Now, this is becoming a kind of diagnosis. When a patient has a chronic condition like this, then he's making some kind of diagnosis. Based on that diagnosis, it goes according to medical standards, and therapy. It is – three times before a meal, a coffeespoon, with some juice or with some elixir, can also be a folk wet, and you can go to the Black River, there on that shovel, because it is also effective. That's the best way to learn math. Now I, Mrs Dragutinović, will explain it nicely. Not the Black River, but very professional stuff. I respect you, unlike the one who sat there yesterday in your shoes. You see, we've been hit by this global financial crisis, we've been shaking for nine years with some degree Richter, at 17 degrees, but it's been showing up for the past year. What's the point of getting out of this crisis? We've got twice. This government remembered to make a mix: a little savings, a little borrowing. A little savings, according to some, is a very large savings to everyone, and borrowing – from a little to a bit of a lot of borrowing, wherever there is money, you pick up, take, enter into this system here. That's how we got the 800,000 a few days ago, but they didn't come to us, that's all in the American, English and German central banks, because it's a guarantee that the loans will come back. Mrs Dragutinović, you just didn't really get me. Once, SFRY, with 22 million inhabitants, owed 22 billion dollars. Today, the Republic of Serbia, with 7.2 million inhabitants, owes $28 billion. When these numbers are taken and placed between them two dots, and then a sign of equality is drawn out of some proportion and some proportion, that is some result, not your doctrinal view of what is up to 30%, which is more than 30%, whether the state is in charge or over-indebted. Second thing, people, the danger has come. You just heard Zoran Nikolic. You could hear from Mr. Skrbić, you could hear from anyone in this room how the budget rebalancing produced good results in terms of the funds being managed as transfer funds for local self-government units – 15 billion dinars less. You heard about Shabac, and as I recall, Skrbic told me that he had 12,000,000 a month, and now they're down to four million. Either they cut by four or down to four, maybe I misunderstood him. But the fact is that local self-government pays less from the budget. Wait, so how does Gilas promise these people they'll be better off if they vote for the Democratic Party? How can they be better off if they're given less? I guess it's better if they're given more. You see, it's this inversion over his 16 media agencies. The other news, one, poor Milan Markovic is chasing Serbia, is due to fire 22,000 people from local self-government. How do you promise employment in local self-government? At the same time, you're firing and hiring, and by choice, a citizen can read what he wants to hear. If he wants to hear his release, he'll give you a round of applause. If he wants to hear the job, he'll give you a round of applause. He used to have such a dilemma with Nikola Pasic, so when they told him both, he said, "You're right, you're right." How can one and the other? He says, and you're right. There's something wrong with you. It's been a while. There is now a concept of transparency, of public clarity, of clarity, no longer a man can be so small-minded. This is where the state asphalts, and this is where the state cuts people's water. How come you guys are working? Why do you hate people? You don't let them work at work, you push them out, you don't let them work in traffic, you don't give in the market, you don't give in the box. What do those poor people do? Explain to me what to do. People aren't that autistic. Not all men are so masochists to enjoy their suffering. They have children, they have grandchildren, they have to fight for life. They have to manage somehow. Here's how Gilas got along. Here's how Djelic managed, eleven million. Why can't you get along and the ordinary world can't handle it? Where is your right to life stronger than the right to the life of other people? What kind of way is that? The next message provided by Gilas - I strongly rebuked the government for cutting funds to Belgrade. If the funds do not return, he says he will resign. How does he resign and run here? When are you guys real? Just some pranks. The explanation by which you reject Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic's amendments ended in the end in that you – optimally measured it. Come on, somebody explain it to me. As I often hear here - my assessment and your assessment. The guy who gives the grades has some criteria, has some cantar that measures what one, two, three, four, five is. He who assesses, he deals with psychicism; he became psychic and says, "I estimate that there will be something like this, etc." Here is a new term: "optimally measured". When you said 50%, you cut it off and you said – since we cut it off, it's optimal, we did the right thing. I've never heard the Democrats say that I was wrong. I hear only from the Democrats, and when they sneeze, they say -- it's a democratic standard, and when they cough -- it's in, it's a democratic standard. You have a democratic standard. Nothing changes in regulations. One year we have a budget surplus, nothing has changed in regulations, next year's deficit. Catastrophe - monkey in tank. You can't run a state like that. Absolutely not. This amendment to the law won't give you a voice or Mira Banjac, because she sees from a mile there is work, she sees that you don't know how to drive that bus called the government of the Republic of Serbia. You don't know how to drive that bus. We're about to go to some ditch. Why? What's the higher interest? From that predecessor of yours who sat there yesterday we learned that he loved NATO more than the Witch. We learned from the one who sat across the street yesterday that he prefers Olli Rehn and Solana together and the EU, rather than Serbia with Pirota. These are the messages you're sending us. You are now sending a message - Serbian citizens, you must love Brussels more than your street. If you love Brussels more than your street, perhaps Gilas will have mercy and pave, of course, without a building permit, without a tender. What's the function? To pass the election. Why? To deceive, to keep radicals from passing, that we pro-European people, who carry European values... What is your European value? You don't think the European Union is recognizable by thieving, do you? He didn't, did he? If so, say so, we must blend in. Or repeat Djindjic's story about NATO aggression. You don't know, maybe you weren't even members of the Democratic Party, Djindjic said well – as far as NATO aggression, people, so it's as if you went into a pub where there are 19 robbers and we, so small, go inside and how we beat 19 robbers. There, to be once, and to have commended Zoran Djindjic, because you criticized me for criticizing him all the time. The man was absolutely right, but the question is, what are we looking for besides 19 bandits? What are we doing in that Alibaba place? You've made Alibaba worth it. It's something amazing. Today, change the rules, tomorrow's reverse. When he changed the first time – he's right, when he changes the second time – he's right again, and he's always right. As long as the Democratic Party is right, Serbia's desolation is happening to us. Go through the Preceeds, if you may. Go through Književec, through Kovin, these are all groups of deceived citizens. In Covin, you even falsified, so you lost your mandate. You didn't even know you were forging. You won five terms less in the coalition. They didn't know how to falsify, and they didn't know 5% of the missing ballots. It's amazing what you're doing, it's just amazing! Believe me, you have to reverse, it comes at a charge, eventually. There will be a September, children will go to school, obligations should be met. There's no obligation. You have contributed greatly to the development of cannibalism in Serbia. A man ate his finger. Do you understand, people? Cannibalism in Serbia. For what? It's a sense of hopelessness. Report to the court for justice, for disappointment, for greater injustice. No one's gonna listen to people anymore. You don't want to hear of human suffering, of torment. You're forcing citizens to worship those who bombed us! Are you guys normal, what are you doing? We tried to fix these amendments a little bit to your bill, so that you wouldn't fix it in two months again, adopting our ideas, but, of course, to draw attention to the citizens. This government is more and more like "The Traveling Theatre of Šopalović", but there are still people who swallow snakes, who sleep on nails; you're doing well with fire. You take care, the state is a serious thing, it deserves serious people in power, and you're not only acting, but you're also acting very unserious.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21582	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maraš. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21583	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, under the full awareness that you will not adopt this amendment on behalf of the LDP, we are also in the principle debate, that is, our President Cedomir Jovanovic said that we will support these amendments to the Law on Income Tax. Why have we submitted this amendment? There were those who were inclined to criticize us for trying to put one group in point 3) and even it with another group, which are within points 1) and 2), but the essence is what you gave in the explanation. I will be free to quote: "The reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure", not to read everything now, you say that "in terms of realising public income on this basis... “ if we do not adopt these amendments immediately, this “needs to provide the necessary material resources and other conditions for financing the work of state authorities and organisations throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia”. What does that mean? This means that you assume that if you did not raise these normised costs, there would be less tax in the case of the Republic of Serbia. Is that right? Nod your head so I know. If that means it, Mrs. Dragutinovic, then I'll be free to remind you. Stenograms are a miracle, these girls that work here record every word spoken in this House, so I have to remind you: when there was budget rebalance and when we from the LDP and some other parties said that you should cut taxes and contributions to wages, you said something that was also in the stenogram – that there was no example in history, and that you studied it carefully in the government, that if taxes were to be reduced, there would be more payment. Is that right? That's what you said, there are stenograms. We have submitted this amendment for this very reason, that the greater the number of those covered by these amendments understand the obligation to pay taxes. In our opinion, if they raise their normised costs from 34 to 43, there will be a higher tax payment, i.e. a reduction in the possibility of fleeing to the gray zone and non-taxation. I've only got two or three things to look at. Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic just said that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we cannot respond to what you said at the previous point. I have to remind you, of course I know that it's the Assembly that can launch an initiative in front of the State Auditing Institution, which is to call on them, but I repeat, I purposely came to you to make you understand, in fact, that it is the essence that the ruling majority must start it. We would really like to see their willingness to know how these debts came to be. It's not a job for us from LDP, or it is, we can initiate it, but it can't go without the will of the ruling majority, because there won't be enough votes to start something like that. I don't think I'd be too long. I just need one more thing. It's stronger than me, let me ask you. You told Mr. Balint Pastor in May that you had received information, you said so in front of the media, that the law on the transfer of jurisdiction would be in the assembly procedure by June 1st, so I'm just curious who lied to you? Today is June 3rd, and this law was not found in the assembly procedure, so I am interested in who gave you this false information when you persuaded Balint Pastor and the other MPs that the law on the transfer of jurisdiction would be in our procedure by 31 May or 1 June? I know you didn't do it out of evil intent, that someone really gave you that information, so I'm interested in who deceived you, so you duped Balint Pastor and us that we'd have a chance to discuss that law too? I will also refer to what counterpart Zoran Nikolic said. Yes, it is true, we showed these data when pensioners, agricultural producers, but I do think that, as Zoran Nikolic said, of those two options, unknown unknown and unknown known, was nevertheless unknown to you. The other day, I tried to draw attention to it, not even on the website, and it had to be that way. So, indeed, certain agricultural producers are deceived, more specifically pensioners. It couldn't have gone past you, or it shouldn't have gone past you. I really ask that, in some future period, we begin, or try to make certain laws that are passed, more precise regulations do not act retroactively, that what is promised is achieved. I hope this law, these changes, will be passed, will support the Liberal Democratic Party. I wish there was more of these changes to the law ahead of us. There are opportunities, Mrs Dragutinovic, for a new rebalancing and for a new 2010 budget to sit together; you will have our support, in any case, if the interests of citizens are taken into account, that is, if public spending is reduced to a minimum and if you succeed in doing everything you can to find out who is responsible for the debts in the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". I have to correct Mr. Todorovic. The Russians have not been damaged by 100m euros, Serbian citizens have been damaged by those 100m euros and for many million more unallocated profits when it comes to NIS. Don't let us defend the Russian side, they're not damaged, Serbian citizens are damaged. I would ask, if you would be able to give me an answer to that question the other day – is it true that the ownership structure in NIS will change because of what happened to the final account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21584	Thank you, Mr. Marash. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21585	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary club has always advocated respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending the Law on income tax. The bill provides for the law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". In order for what the Constitution says to be respected, I have proposed that this law enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I'll read Article 196. The Constitution relating to the publication of laws and other general acts: “Laws and other general acts shall enter into force at the earliest of the eighth day of the day of publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption.” To carry out your purpose, you can always say that there are particularly valid reasons. I see an argument for the submission of this amendment in Article 196(4) and you in the same article, in the same position, see the argument that the law enters into force the next day of publication. It is explained that it is necessary for the law to enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" because there are particularly justified reasons for fiscal nature to ensure that provisions governing the determination of the level of tax base in the taxation of income from copyright and copyright related rights are applied as soon as possible. Just a month ago, these particularly justified reasons were not particularly justified. It is not disputed that the burden created by bonds paying taxes on copyright fee should be reduced. The amendment, which I submitted to the first member of this bill, suggested that the normised costs be returned to the level before the April change, and thus discharging these taxpayers even more than is now proposed by the bill. We all agree that the position of these debtors requires one of these, let's call it, the state's concession at this time of crisis. The state is now reducing taxes that were increased a month ago, but does not return them to the level before April changes. He still has to take something, and he also has to think about how to replace what's planned, and it's not going to happen. We are all aware that there will be even greater problems with the payment of budget revenues. The additional problem is that, on the other side, a significant item is expenditure due to newly established state bodies. It is interesting that, in the light of most of the draft laws set up by these authorities, no additional budgets are needed to implement the law. Then a question arises from which funds are the work of these bodies financed? Of course, from the budget. I will now only briefly remind myself of what the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy has said since 30 April of this year, and concerns tax collection. The memorandum said that the overall fiscal score in 2008 was weaker than expected. While the programme envisioned a total fiscal deficit of 2.5% exceeded by a relatively small amount, indirect taxes and social security contributions have significantly undermined around 1% of GDP as a result of a sharp decline in trade and growing tax collection problems. The SRS Parliament Club believes that precisely because tax collection problems are becoming more and more states in no way should initiate even greater problems. I've already said that high taxes on copyright fees would affect the reduction of concluded contracts and lead to a grey economy. If you want to avoid it, accept the amendments to the SRS, return the amounts of normable costs to the level before the change in April. I think that this solution is in the interests of Serbian citizens who carry out their work in culture, art, media, and the adoption of this amendment to Article 2 will honor what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21586	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs Dragutinović, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21587	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has concluded the debate in detail, and I thank you all for the most constructive criticism. What bothered me the most is maybe... There were words from Miss Lidija Dimitrijevic, who wanted to compare the Serbian tax system to the harrass system. It may sound nice when you say it, but it's just not true. I can accept various types of criticism, but the criticism that the Serbian tax system is a harak system is exactly how public opinion can be defined to move from tax payments to tax evasion. So, the role of the government, but also of this parliament, is to build tax morality because really paying taxes is a civil obligation. Also, I know what a good tax system should look like. A good tax system is a combination of low rates, without or with minimal release. I'm behind these words, you can check it out. The Serbian tax system is a combination of low tax rates – and can be checked, tell me what tax rate is high – and large exemptions. In that sense, he's not a haraic system. I'd say a few sentences about the very idea of changing this law in parts. It really is a natural thing to even the tax burden. So, equalise the tax burden on all incomes from work. I repeat that the fiscal burden of earnings representing the reference value is 65 dinars per 100 dinars of net earnings, which means that it is approximately 2.5 times higher than, for example, the author's fee. We can talk about the level of tax burden or the fiscal burden of profit, whether it's high or not. I say it's not, especially low tax rate. So the idea was to even it out. I take all the blame on myself; I usually like the shortest way to the truth, so instead of doing something in more steps, I prefer to do it in one. It is not true, too, that the government has no vision or that I, as finance minister, have no vision when it comes to fiscal policy, but sometimes you have to adapt to new circumstances, you can't predict everything perfectly. The goal, as a rule, is not one step. Mr Nikolic, Todorovic, etc. They criticised, or Mr Nikolic, for the first time praised a law, in the sense that we did not compare the law with EU law and European practice. I can say again that it's not well understood. The fact is that standards don't exist when it comes to normal costs, but there are when it comes to tax burdens. There is no parallel practice when it comes to the normised costs. Mr. Todorovic of the Radical Party criticised, on the one hand, the size of the state and the size of public spending, on the other hand, the government's intention to complete the privatisation process. You can't be against each other. Or you're for big public spending, which means a significant role for public enterprises in economic life; if you're not, then you can't be against privatisation. Mr Krasic likes to compare the results of the economic activity of former SFRY and current Serbia. I know, Mr. Krasic, that the SFRY was far more in charge than the present Serbia. I know you understand the methodology, and I know very well that it doesn't mean the same dollar to you now and the dollar 30 or 40 years ago. It is incorrect to compare in dollars the amount of Serbia's debt with the debt of a large SFRY, because the dollar is sometimes not the same now, the social product is sometimes not the same. What we need to compare is participation in the GDP. Also, you are referring to the methodology and criticising the government because it once shows the surplus, the second time the deficit, although you know very well that it was I who wanted to show how great public spending is in Serbia and to show, although it is not true under the current Budgetary System Act, what is the real deficit of the state. I'd like to remind you of the fact that during the 1980s and 1990s the budget was constantly balanced, of course paper, even though you know it was always a deficit. Mr. Marash isn't here. His favorite question, which he usually asks me as finance minister, is about the oil industry of Serbia. Although he likes to use stenographic notes (I like them too), I often don't recognize my words when he interprets them. That's right, for example, two or three days ago, when the government representatives answered the questions of MPs, read my words, which I later checked and realized I didn't say. I never said there were two final accounts, that it was 15 days late, that someone was waiting, etc. I only said that, according to reports received from the oil industry of Serbia, in which the Russians were not yet owners, the NIS year was predicted to come with profits. We calculated it with that profit, calculated it in budget revenues. The deadline for finalisation of the final account is February 28th. At that time, the final account was done in the way the new owner probably wanted; international accounting standards were used, and as a result, he was lost. There is only one official final account, the one with a loss, and the NIS estimates that the company will deal with the profits. What I do know is that the oil industry of Serbia has always had a final profit account since 2001. What I do know is that the oil industry of Serbia regularly paid 50% of its profits in the Republic of Serbia's budget and that it did not happen only in 2008. Will the ownership structure of NIS change? As much as I read that contract, I know there's no basis for it, that's the first thing. I also know very well that the Russians knew exactly what they were buying, that their people were almost a year old in NIS and they recorded everything. In addition, they bought a company in a state such as on January 1st 2009. Therefore, the company's operations from the beginning of its existence until the end of 2008 should not affect the ownership structure. Finally, once again, I would like to thank everyone for the criticism, the constructive discussion and ask the MPs to support this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21588	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in particular. The exact term of the voting day will be notified later. It'll be, anyway, next week, not these, just so you can plan, but I'll let you know in time. I ask all MPs to enter the O.R. to begin a session that was scheduled for 15.00 hours. We're 25 minutes late, but we've finished one very important item on the agenda. [[The session was suspended at 3:25 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21589	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT SEVEN SESSION OF 3 June 2009 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 15.30 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, we are in the O.R., or there should be 178 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I thank Mrs. Minister for her very correct co-operation and exhaustive explanations. So, please insert the cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a presence in the hall at this point, which you can also see on your monitors, 90 MPs, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Esad Djudjevic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Jovan Palalić, Milica Radovic, Balint Pastor, Riza Halimi, Mladen Grujic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft act in the established agenda as soon as possible. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend Mr Dusan Spasojevic and Dr Zoran Vesic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, and Milorad Peric, Head of Defence. In accordance with Article 85(5), I would like to inform you that we will be working until the end of the agenda, and after 18 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, which was called at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 169 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the holding of the Seventh Extraordinary Session, with a predetermined agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, the following Dn e n i d: 1. The proposal for a decision on the participation of professional members of the Sanitary Service of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia as part of the Norwegian contingent in the United Nations Peace Mission in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic (MINURCAT) is moving to the 1st point of the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the participation of professional members of the United Nations SANITE SERVICES OF THE Ministry of Defence and of the Military SERBIA IN THE COMMUNITY OF THE NORWAY CONTENTION IN THE SUNCH MINISTRY OF THE UNITED NATION IN THE REPUBLIC OF THE CENTRAL REPUBLIC (MINURCAT) is proposed, as we did not have a break today, to take a break of 30 minutes and to continue our work in 30 minutes. [[After breaks – 16.10]] Gentlemen, let's get back to work. I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this is allocated to parliamentary groups of approximately the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary groups, which means that the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia has an hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the Serbian Radical Party MP group – hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group Progress Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliament group – eight minutes and 24 seconds; the Group of Liberal Democratic Party – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Group of MPs of New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the group of Members of the United People's Party – six minutes. In accordance with Article 93 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the SRS Parliamentary Group has authorized Mr Zoran Krasic to represent her on this agenda point. No one ever made any different suggestions. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the motionary's representative, Mr Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21592	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday we had a live debate and, most of the time, presented the reasons for our desire to send our Sanitation Team to the Peace Mission in Chad, and now I'm going to bring just some of the facts that yesterday were not the subject of our debate. I want to introduce you to the history of participation of members and of the JNA, as our armies, and the armies of Serbia-Montenegro, and today the armies of Serbia, in peace operations. I think it's a history that you need to know, both you MPs and the public in Serbia. The country of SFRY participated in several peacekeeping operations, the most significant operation in Sinai, which was from 1956 to 1967. We also participated in Yemen from 1963 to 1964, and in Congo – 1960 – and in Congo and today we have our Sanitary Team as a unit. We also participated in the Peace Operation in Iran, from 1988 to 1991, in Namibia – from 1989 to 1990, and in Angola – from 1989 to 1991. Since 2002, since June, the SRJ has decided to send one team of five observers to East Timor. The peace mission has been started for us since 2002, and ended in 2003. We had three military observers in Burundi. The peace operation also ended for us in 2005, and today we have four military observers in Liberia. In Côte d'Ivoire, we have three military observers and a whole Sanitary team in Congo. It's the only unit we have outside our country's borders and it's a 12th peace operation. I would like to point out that in the operation that was in Sinai, JNA had a contingent that consisted of more than 21% of all international forces in that area and that more than 14,000 members of our army and civilians participated in the peace operation. It is interesting to know that at that time nearly 11,000 soldiers were involved in the operation, including soldiers who were serving the military and who volunteered to participate in a peace operation, which was in Sinai at the time. As you know, the Military Act defines three missions of the Serbian Army. The first mission is to protect the country's borders, i.e. the country's sovereignty, the country's defence. The second mission is participation in multinational joint operations. The third mission is to help the civilian population in the event of natural disasters. We believe that if we were not able to respond to all three missions, practically, we would not be able to comply with the law, and at this point we are convinced that the Serbian Army has the possibility, so it can and wants to participate in peace operations, and that we should and can raise our country's foreign policy credibility. The mission in Chad is a mission organised by the UN. It's true we're going with the Norwegian contingent, but trust me, first of all, because in 2006, a commitment was made to show up with them in Afghanistan. In fact, the government of Vojislav Kostunica made a decision at the time to participate with a larger team in Afghanistan, after which they made a political decision not to participate. I believe that one serious state, a serious defense system, a serious army cannot make promises and later play them. If we have a decision before you today, which we want to participate in a peace operation in Chad, along with representatives of the Norwegian contingent. I'd like to read to you what countries are present today in that operation. To avoid confusion, 36 countries currently have their representatives, military representatives, and 20 countries – their representatives as police personnel. These are: Austria, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Croatia, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Ireland, Jordan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Namibia, Nepal, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Rwanda, Senegal, Spain, Sweden, Tunisia, Uganda, USA, Yemen and Zambia. These are countries from all continents of the globe and we believe that our co-operation, in a peace operation, is very important in the foreign policy sense, because there are countries that have been proven to be our partners and associates, so we think that our support will be welcome to them and foreign policy. On the one hand, this is a human mission. I would like to stress that our doctors, who will be on that mission, will not only treat members of the Norwegian contingent, the members of all these countries present, but also the population. We feel that it is necessary to help that country, given that it has a very difficult situation and that our medical team can do much good. On the other hand, for us as a defence system, one decision is also very important in terms of international reputation, given that Norway has decided to offer us the possibility of treating their contingent, which shows that they have great respect for our doctors, according to our health system, and we believe that it is another of the great benefits of our defence system. We want our VMA and our defense medical system to be recognized in the world. At this point, I can tell you that our VMA is the third largest military hospital in the world, unfortunately, not yet third and best quality, but we are convinced that in the years ahead, we will strengthen ourselves in that third position and in quality. It is so important to say that, in the year that is behind us, and in the year that is ahead of us, we have already begun to equip our VMA, and thus with the education and equipment of our doctors. We believe that this is one concession not only for the military and the defence system, but also for the entire population of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21593	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Among MPs who want a word, Mr Zoran Krasic first called.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21594	This is essentially a follow-up to yesterday's debate. Yesterday we had one topic initiated by the SRS Parliament Club, and in general, not only peace missions, but other activities of our representatives, whether it was the military, the Ministry of Defence, or anything that represents a symbol of the force of a state and its involvement abroad. Today we have this item on the agenda, and I would draw attention to the beginning that it is a single decision, a general act, where the motionary seeks to refer a Sanitary-Surgeon team to a Norwegian contingent within the framework of a UN-approved peacekeeping mission for the state of Chad. What's important in this debate to say? It is important to say that the engagement of our soldiers and, more widely, everything that belongs to the Ministry of Defence and the Army, anything that is in the defense structures, is possible only if the National Assembly makes a positive decision about it. We urge you to vote against this motion for a decision, if this decision were withdrawn, that would be the best. The first reason is – Norway is a state that has recognised an independent Kosovo. It is a fact that neither the Ministry of Defence nor the President of the Republic can influence. Simply, Norway has decided, the public has been informed, and you know that we have an obligation to convince those countries that have recognised Kosovo as an independent state, in order to achieve Marty Ahtisaari's plan, to withdraw their recognition, and if we fail, then we have a rather cold relationship with that country. We are bound by the resolutions adopted by the National Assembly. We have one resolution that was adopted on 26 December 2007 – on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. Point 6 says -- due to the overall role of the NATO Pact, etc., we say to ourselves that we are military neutral, we do not need to settle into some blocks, especially according to the NATO Pact. Norway has been a NATO member since 1949. Norway is not an EU member, because they are much richer than anyone in the EU. Norway has 4.5 million inhabitants, it is a rich state, and now it has some $200 billion fund, as a reserve, that when the mineral reserve, i.e. oil and gas reserves, they are a state with financial resources that can participate in financial markets and provide benefits for its citizens. Many of our people live and work in Norway. Some learned Norwegian, joined the G17 plus and became officials. Remember, earlier at the Ministry of Defence, there was a lady who knew Norwegian, and that recommended her to be an assistant minister of defense at a time when, I think, Davinic was a minister, or later. Now she's in charge of youth and sports, hip youth, hook sport. As far as the EU is concerned, you know, just to show you from their website, KIM is not part of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is cut short for KIM territory. Norway is present, with its soldiers, and in KIM territory, within NATO forces. Here's what happened on February 26th, 2004. It's like this. Norway is in shock these days. "Amateur video of the savagery of their soldiers in Kosovo has been broadcast on TV there, and it has been recorded that soldiers are killing dogs in a village whose name is not listed," that I am not reading any further. It's their army. What could our sanity team learn in the Norwegian troops' contingent as part of a UN peacekeeping mission? Probably nothing. Why? Until a few years ago, we had listened to professional praises for the expense of our Sanitary Service, which since August 1991, at the end of 1999, or on June 10, 1999, showed exceptional professionalism, expertise, even coming to VMA experts from military profession, military surgeons and military medical experts, to learn how this is done by our teams to resuscitate war trauma, injuries and all that is experienced in the war. What would our mission be? We, a state with eight and a few million inhabitants, send our doctors under the flag of a country that has 4.5 million inhabitants?- I'm sorry. It's a little offensive. If the UN is asking us to help with a team, then why don't we go with our flag, with our anthem? This would best demonstrate our struggle for sovereignty. Norway is very active in these events on the Balkan territory, especially the former SFRY, from 1992 to today. There are some other countries that are not members of NATO or the EU and are extremely active, such as Switzerland. Let me remind you, in 2000, in November, Switzerland gave us access to the World Bank and the IMF. She was guaranteed, both by name and means, that we could enter these organizations and be in charge. What's the point of this story? Why are we running into the embrace of a state that has recognised an independent Kosovo? One who says - I will never sign consent to an independent Kosovo, one who says - I will never recognise an independent Kosovo, how can I propose this kind of decision on our team's participation? There's going to be a talk here about it being on the principle of volunteering. If the principle of volunteering is respected, my information says that, from 12 VMA surgeons, only one reported, because they promised him between 10 and 15,000 euros a month's salary. To complete the team, it takes more. He's threatening people. What is the legal basis for this decision? I'd like you to take a look at the explanation and the last position in it. Under point 1 – The basis for engagement and the objectives to be achieved, the basis for considering engagement is the invitation letter from the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway to the Minister of Defence Dragan Sutanovac. How can a letter be a legal basis? How can two ministers sit down, exchange an email address – how are you, my friend, I'm fine, my friend, would you like to send a surgical team? Okay, Boki will agree. This isn't a private front, I guess we're fighting for it, our Kosovo and the Metohija. Let me remind you, for 2,000 years, some have fought to achieve their national and elemental life interests, and in every place they have repeated where Jerusalem belongs. How do you forget about us for less than a year? Or, the government has two tapes, so it changes, and when something concrete comes, which is life, then we see that neither the first or the other tape is valid, nor that tape – I will not sign, nor the other one – I will not admit. What are we talking about today? What is our experience with the Member States of the NATO Pact? Let's remind ourselves a little bit. NATO is present at KIM. NATO is not neutral. He advocates KiM being a special state. NATO was present in 1992 in the UNPA zones. To remind you, the aggression that Tudjman committed in 1995, May and August, was an aggression on UN-controlled territories. First, the UN disarmed the entire population, and then American experts, even, instructeds and planes and artillery tools, attacked, allegedly, the UN. The United Nations retreated, came a little later to realize some atrocities, which are still subject to the interest of some courts. Then why are we doing this? What goals should be achieved? Whose goals? If there are any private goals of someone who is in power, then it should be said that this is his private goal, his private interest, he promised. But how could someone promise that they had not previously been informed and had not been decided by the National Assembly? We discussed yesterday the announcement that some of our experts might be present at some exercise in Georgia. That engagement didn't take place. It's a good thing it didn't come. For if it had come past the National Assembly, then it would have been a violation of both the Constitution and Article 7 of the special law which regulates it. It's stopped, the public stopped it. A Secretary of State "couraged", the public rebelled, and it was prevented, not from dealing, not only with Russia, but from respecting the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia. But, you know, it's all possible. In terms of rationalization at all levels, well, let's say, and in the Army, then it's said of civilians who are engaged in the military, or some military faces -- we're transforming, you're surplus, we don't know what to do with you, we have nowhere to deploy you. Then someone came up with some action - a severance to work. It used to be an action - by severance to get rid of some frame, so that it would no longer be present. Then the principle question arises – what is being fired? Something that's too high is being released, something that doesn't meet the criteria for something new. That's what happened in the federal M.O.P. Because someone was extra, they gave him 24 severance payments, just to keep him out of state service. It's evidence of someone's ability. After all, Ponos explained nicely, in several interviews, with which inexperience, unprofessionalism is done this job at the Ministry of Defence, which threatens to have more colonels and generals than the entire military system: General Staff, troops, etc. Whose vanity should you please when you raise your hand for this decision? Here are the big arguments. Norway has recognised Kosovo's independence. How can we work with them on such sensitive and important issues? Didn't they disqualify themselves? The second question, who's pushing us into that hug, why is he pushing us into that hug? Is this how we confess something, and only later to find out what's been admitted? The SRS doesn't want any part of this business. We do not see what the interest of the Republic of Serbia is to have our sanity team present in one such area. First, we've been in a difficult economic crisis for eight or nine years, probably longer. We don't have any material resources for something that should allow seven people, and then ten or 24 later, to leave, to find out something. Well, they know it better than anyone in the Norwegian contingent. They all learned it in action, as they say. We need to pass on knowledge to others. Let them come to VMA to teach them, to transfer knowledge, to pay for that knowledge. It's a much better export business. What message are we sending to the NATO Pact? We're sending a message. You can do whatever you want with us. We'll take anything. It's not a message from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, remember that. After all, this country has also sued ten NATO member states over that atrocities in 1999. You may not have read the books, but a crime against peace is a top crime, sublimes all war crimes within you. The crime was committed by NATO's pact over us, and it didn't even have a Security Council decision to hire an army under the UN Charter chapter 7. They've broken everything, absolutely everything. We don't need much defiance, but we have to say what our interests are. It hasn't been so many years that it can fall into oblivion. Who authorized one of you to forget Milica Rakic and Varvarin and the KIM and the Serbian Krajina Republic? Who authorized you? Who authorized the government to propose such a decision? An imaginary flossula about Euro-Atlantic integration? The more you talk about these Euro-Atlantic integrations, the worse Serbia's citizens. Don't you notice that? There is no reason for anyone from the defence system of the Republic of Serbia to be engaged in a peacekeeping mission, following the UN's decision, so that we are part of another country's military force. If we have any reason to be part of some military force that's on a peace mission, then it's Russia. Don't laugh, they didn't bomb us. All these others bombed us. At least make a difference if you're able to make a difference. I call, first of all, the military faces and those pressured to go, to refuse to go on this peace mission. If you want to make a reputation for our armed forces, all those who want to learn about the sanity of another's army, come to the VMA, to our experts, will be very happy to share that knowledge with them. There is no such thing as material, neither constitutional, human, moral, nor any other reason to vote for this motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21595	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21596	With Mr Krasic's presentation, I will agree only in the part where he said Norway has four and a half million inhabitants. The rest is all, more or less, false. What's important is that the members of our contingent will go with our flag, our markings and our uniform. There are no more colonels and generals left in the Serbian Army today than before. On the contrary, there are 38 generals in Serbia today, and I will tell you that we are currently paying around 756 such pensions. A large part of these pensions were inherited from the time in which you were building the fate of the Serbian Army. What I'm also saying is that I understand the political disputation of this kind of activity, I understand your desire to challenge this matter politically, but I don't understand why you insult all the officers and officers who are in peace operations today and who have voluntarily gone into these operations. I don't understand why you humiliate people who risk their lives daily to raise our country's reputation and save other people's lives on the ground. I'll remind you that recently there was an incident in Congo where our people were saving lives after some sporting activity, in which there was a threat to the lives of civilians. Since 2003, 72 doctors and medical technicians have gone through our unit in the Congo, 72, for me, heroes, and for you – the coercioner, whom we forced to go into these operations. I've had a chance to talk to almost everyone who's gone and come back for the last two years. Some of them are in a peace operation for the third time. It's a shame to call these people what you say. None of them will go by force, absolutely none. If you have any knowledge that anyone is being raped to go, please deliver it to me, don't try to distract this people. What's important is to say, I'm not here to defend Norway, nor is the idea of this session attacking Norway. I wish we had the capacity to show up with our unit, not in the Norwegian contingent. Unfortunately, we don't have that capacity today, because the Army was destroyed in the '90s, and when I hear you were doing well and complaining about these nine years, we're complaining about the '90s when you destroyed the Yugoslav Army. On the other hand, I want to say that Norway has donated about 50m euros in Serbia's premises in the last nine years. There is almost no local self-government in Serbia that has no donation from Norway. When you go to the doctor, Mr. Krasic, ask if the machine that treats you is Norwegian, so you might want to say no, because if you're so principled, it wouldn't be right to use a device that came from a donation of such a country. I want to point out that Norway is the country that has perhaps the largest individual investment in this country. Norway was the country that helped and saved our prisoners who were there in World War II. Friendship with Norway is much stronger than the speeches you make here. I am sure that the Norwegian Parliament will not change its attitude towards Serbia because you here are giving a speech that, at the very least, is a hate speech for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21597	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21598	I guess I just hit the population number. I've guessed a lot more, Mr. Sutanovac, you know very well how much I've guessed. Mr Sutanovac, is there room in your humanity and for those people in Kosovo and Metohija, who are also persecuted? What did you do to protect them? Take care of Kong and don't mind what's going on two blocks from us. Mr. Sutanovac, the Americans bought a marshallate; they took it down first with bombs, and now with construction machines, they cut the trees, they made a hole, they threw out a land that was irradiated and brought a new land. It's your NATO pact, Mr. Sutanovac. I can't ask you to hate NATO when you're their student, their favorite student. Mr. Sutanovac, yesterday you said I said something that wasn't true. I quote, "I took the severance payment and I don't remember how much it was, but it seems to me that there were about 9,000 euros somewhere. I am now employed in "Yugoimport" and I have never been on the Serbian Parliament payroll." That's what Sutanovac, the MP of the DS, says. When asked why he had not moved his work book to the Serbian Parliament before, he replied that it was because there were small salaries there, and that it was more cost-effective for him to collect the severance payment after leaving the ministry. Mr. Sutanovac, you're paid not to work in the state service. The state gave you money just to get out of state service. Boris Tadic brought you back, as you said in your biography, because you are godfathers. Do you see what the disaster is for the state? There's no sound judgment. There is no sound judgment. Where to steal the money, so I can go. That's the problem, which is that your private interest is represented as a state interest. It's not a public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21599	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21600	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, firstly I want to tell you that we will support your proposal and thus contribute most specifically to the clearing up of a very harmful, confusing policy, whose here you are now a hostage. In fact, you're not a real talker for this debate, because always the army, the good army, obeyed orders. The military doesn't do politics. If it's our policy -- stop, go, then the Army is in a very difficult position. Since you are both a politician and a minister, then with the support you receive, you must be prepared to hear our criticisms as well. It depends on your ability to understand whether these criticisms are well-intentioned, or whether you put a sign of equality between our criticism and politics, which is so much in every commentary of the activities of the Ministry of Defense, not just yours, but always. We think it's logical, in a changing country, to initiate serious and profound changes in the military sector. We therefore consider it necessary to start any debate on the activities of the Ministry of Defence, precisely, on the topics of the Ministry of Defence strategy, or our military, then continue this political action, in order to create the necessary political conditions for the implementation of a decision that is an obligation for our country, and at the same time the honor. Despite what Serbia has been through, or what the Serbian people have been going through at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, we cannot ignore the fact that some international forces have guaranteed peace, security and security and preserved the human lives of members of the Serb people at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, Croatia, Bosnia, even in Kosovo, as controversial as this role is and as rightly as the MP Krasic is when quoting certain situations, which are certainly for condemnation. It is not true that Norway was only present in Kosovo through these incidents. She has done a lot of good in Kosovo. It is not true that the US in Kosovo was present only during the arrival of 1999, but through everything they did in 2004, when they protected Serbs in Kosovo, when they shot Albanians in Kosovo and killed about 20 Albanians, protecting the Serb population and meeting their international obligations in the area of peace and security guarantee. What is it that we cannot support, Mr. Sutanovac? We cannot support the absence of strategy and introduction, at a small door, those relations which, in our opinion, are very important and must be in the first place, which are the relations of co-operation and partnership with other countries in the area of security. For a long time, these security partnerships cannot be reduced exclusively to soldiers on the front line. On the contrary, this is the final level of partnership and, most often, fortunately, is not the most significant. The NATO Pact has existed for nearly 60 years, this year marked the 60th anniversary, and in addition to armed intervention in 1999 it has not acted militaryly in the way it was supposed to be, say, when it was made, but preventively and politically, so many times so far. We need to look back at yesterday's debate that was led here, because it's part of a concrete plan and an indicator of a non-disclosure context in which our army is moving today, and in fact it's only about politics. The military neutrality of Serbia's armed forces is based on a resolution adopted on 26 December 2007 by the Serbian National Assembly on the protection of sovereignty, integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia and voted on six points, or decisions. Of those six, five of these countries have left in the meantime, given up, not because I think you're traitors, but because you can't be a reasonable man and follow the decisions that are comments and based on political utopia. Only one sentence in this resolution refers to the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia. How is it possible to respect one sentence of the resolution that is completely, in each other's sentences, challenged? That's not a question for the Secretary of Defense, and that's why you're not a good talker in this discussion. We would like to see the Prime Minister here, the people who create a political environment in which you are now explaining that co-operation with Norway, which is in NATO, is not also co-operation with the NATO Pact. We have nothing against this co-operation, because we think that through the closeness with NATO, we would help the Serbs that NATO keeps in Kosovo most specifically, so that through the closeness with NATO the pact would be easier to overcome the prejudices that exist in our mutual relations, so that through the closeness of the NATO Pact, we could do what some other countries that have done in the past were in equally difficult antagonisms, so they came out of these problems by finding common interests in the future. What is the problem between Serbia and NATO greater than the problem between Germany and America, Germany and France, Germany and the UK? It's a matter for politicians, not for generals who follow orders. They carried out our generals and illogical political orders in the past, they got on planes, and they knew in advance that they could only take off, they were doing their military duty; they weren't there to think about whether it was logical or not. It's not said for no reason in the military – put a hat on your head so you don't have something on your mind. But if that applies in the military, it must not apply in politics, because unless a soldier has the right to think, and politics is unreasonable, that soldier is sacrificed. We are here today, first of all, talking about politics, not the sense of sending a few surgeons and our sanity unit to the Peace Mission in Chad. Of course they should go there. Our soldiers have done it in the past, they've done it in the last few years, and that's what you said, and that's where we agree, to increase the country's international reputation. If our goal is to increase that reputation, then let's increase it in a clear and concrete way, and not by sending it to every message we send, the next moment we send a message. If we want to go to international missions, then let's go to those international missions where our presence is needed most, in those most significant international missions, in those international missions whose fate depends on the international order. At this point, for example, it's the mission to Afghanistan. Is she risky? Yes, it is. Can this mission, by its own importance, devalue the Mission in Chad? No, human life has equal value in both Chad and Afghanistan and Kosovo. But if we want to contribute to an international security system that is compromised and protected by the United Nations' decision, by sending troops of the United Nations to Afghanistan, then we belong there. It is our place at every point in the globe where the international order is at risk, because, by keeping that international order, we affirm our country, which has long been a "trabblemaker" and a "thorn in the heel" of this world policy. We want it to come to that. We want to win, through a debate on the strategy, not only legal and legitimate, but also for our society the acceptable basis for the decisions we now make. It doesn't make much sense in the decision that's being made and not being followed by general support. You yourself know, if you were to ask yourself, in a public opinion study, a question – whether our soldiers should go on international missions, in most of our society would reject such a thing and condemn it. Would you be right? No, you wouldn't. That's why there are leaders, to change established relationships, to pave the way. We see our role as LDP. We spent a lot of time yesterday, I think it would be good to understand that you didn't perform in Parliament the best way. You don't have enemies here, you have people who criticize you, with more or less grounds, but you are obliged to put up with these criticisms. You're right when you say we didn't pass a lot of laws until 2003, much more adopted in the last few years, because circumstances were different, the military didn't know who was managing it, who was funding it, the army was falling apart, precisely because there was no clear policy, but in 2003, it seems to me, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through the performance of the then Prime Minister, expressed its readiness and showed the will to send members of our army who volunteered to participate in the Mission in Afghanistan. It wasn't any of it. We've made so many mistakes in the past that I don't think we have a reason to do that this time. Let us openly state what this country wants and thus enable our army to develop normally. It's a good thing you're solving the material problems of a soldier. It's something we support. We have no objection to the technological restoration of our army, but we think it must all be in the function of a broader political context. If we renew our army with the idea that there will be peace all our lives, but maybe tomorrow someone will attack us, then it's a beyond concept. But if our society, in partnership with the international community, is restoring our army in order to take its place in the collective security system, then it is our society's priority interest and we need to participate, but that has to be made clear. There is no reason to discuss this shyly and try to explain that participation under the command of the Norwegian contingent is something different from partnership and co-operation with a country that is in the NATO Pact. NATO is acting under the command of the United Nations, that is a fact and should be respected. That's right in Bosnia, that's right in Kosovo, that's the circumstances we can't ignore. If there's a political weakness ahead of that, you're obliged to stand up to that idea, not to juggle on what this actually means. The text of this decision states that the mission was established in April-May and that it lasts for another year. I don't suppose we're expected to, that's clear to say, confirm the decision that's already been made. I think it's more or less misspelled, that the mission started and took a year, and that we could be involved in that mission at any moment, and our people would get involved when the decision was made. The text is unclear and it's getting the impression that someone's gone, and now we need to make that decision later. Something like that needs to be made clear. I repeat, we support it, but we don't want it to fit in Chad, or in the Congo, we want our army involved ambitiously in establishing that system of security and guaranteeing human freedoms and rights that we need as well. As much as we contribute to this world, the world will contribute to us. There's a lot of politics in that space, there's a lot of economics, and that's why something like this needs to be opened up. I think it would be easier for everyone if we had discussed the strategy, that we had passed good laws, that we had cleared up some situations. I think we needed to discuss your discussion with the Chief of Staff. In such a way, there would be far fewer public concerns. There is nothing controversial about sometimes that politicians disagree with officers, quite on the contrary, it is the general place of every defence ministry, and as in every army whose word is older, so must be known in our army, but that word must follow responsibility. You have received your duel with the Chief of Staff, but we have no impression that this result is the result of a clear political stance, but we have a much greater impression that politics is present, and in the end, it has become a subject to which the president will adhere. The president will comply with the law, and that's what needs to be said. Then we wouldn't be driven by the polemics that have eaten up our moons and that have no function other than to deepen chaos, and the army must not be in chaos. Then it's not enough to give someone an apartment and it's not enough to rebuild the military-industry complex, because it's all ruining unclear politics. When the first man of a factory is replaced within a military-industry complex after 15 years, there is no reason for any mystification. There is a plan, in this plan there is no more room for previously established relations – thank the man and he has been replaced. If done in such a way, at a meeting of the board of directors, and then not commented, then everyone else has the right to comment, and there is no serious country in the world where such decisions are so politicized. If there is a ban on exporting weapons from our country, so some company suffers damage, then it is done with a full and timely explanation, so society supports such a thing, because it is not Serbia's interest to export weapons to those who threaten the security of which Serbia itself depends?- I'm sorry. I don't think there are any misunderstandings, but our problem is that the Ministry of Defense cannot act autonomously and independently of the general political context, which is confusing. It is true that there are countries that are members of the EU without being members of NATO, such as those in NATO but not in the EU. Norway is one of those. You were in Austria, which is not in NATO, but is in the EU. We can't get analogies out of it. We need to define our interests in a clear way, to convince society that our definition is correct and to explain to the citizens that the safest thing is, that our security guarantee is our ability to integrate our interests in the interests of the area we belong to, which is, unfortunately, if we talk about the military, the space that is restricted by the format of the NATO Pact. All our neighbors are in NATO, or moving towards NATO. I think that position is unsustainable. At which point the question opens, and we can talk about it, but then don't call on this resolution. We can say - it is not now in the political agenda of this government, this government has come before Parliament with the following priorities: membership in the Union, preservation of integrity in Kosovo and Metohija, economic reform, NATO. We'll talk about it in five years. But if you're trying to explain to us that we gave the answers to a NATO pact in the text of a resolution that the government has, because it's lifeless, what it's flossula, left a year ago, then it's pointless and that one sentence, because it's impossible that the resolution doesn't exist and that we stick to a sentence within something that doesn't exist. So, once again, support for this decision, remove only that uncertainty, that it is known that people will leave after the vote in the Assembly. Unfortunately, we miss the Prime Minister here. You're not the talker, Mr. Secretary of Defense, for these subjects. These are political issues. You can talk about other issues, but we're interested in politics, first of all, and the Army is not involved in politics, which is why we can't talk as seriously as this situation requires. It would be good to know that this is not the end, that this is the process in which we take on those obligations that we can, which we are able to take, and we are slowly preparing for such an ambitious place in the international security system as ambitious our society is, and I think we are very ambitious, because we have a high opinion of ourselves. When that opinion is so high, let's answer it in an adequate way, to professionalise our army, to depolitize it completely, but to make it clear to every man within the country's defence system that it is moving in and in such a way to exclude the possibility of any repetition of those chaotic situations in which we have been in the past, when we have often brought the military into a senseless position. And today she is, in part, in such a situation, because occasionally she needs to judge herself, without clear political support. That you're intimate for some other policy, that may be your personal plus, but I don't think it's a good thing that you're arbitration here if you're closer to NATO pact or state policy that says we're currently a country that's military neutral. They're not topics, they can't be topics, one serious state policy in the area of armed forces, they just can't. In order for this situation to change, I think everyone has to do something about it. We contribute in this way, by breaking those prejudices. We believe that Serbia is a NATO place, we are sure that full NATO membership will speed up the process of European integration of the country, although it is not a precondition for EU membership, but through co-operation in the area of security we will most easily overcome all the resistances put before us at the moment, and we will most specifically help those who depend on the ability of NATO soldiers and the willingness of the alliance to protect their property and their lives, which is, above all, the case with Serbs in Kosovo. Finally, we have always worked openly in the past, Serbia has never been neutral. The price of our clear attitudes was high. Today we later face the interpretations that tell us – it might be better if we were neutral, but the military can't be neutral when the war begins, but the military can only implement political decisions, which must not be temporary and must not be made ad hoc. Military neutrality makes sense when everyone admits it. If one of us asked us to be military neutral, then we could talk about it. Since none of us ask for it, none of our military neutrality and admits it, and it seems to me that they're changing by regime, at least when it comes to official state policy, nothing more than the declaration itself, then let's get a clear relationship as soon as possible, because something like that is necessary for the normal development of the army in a democratic society.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21601	Thank you. Mr. Minister, go ahead, just sign in, so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21602	I didn't come to this session as a representative of the Army. I am a representative of the executive and minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, elected in this parliament. Accordingly, you treat me the way I treat you, with the utmost respect. As you know, I was an MP, like you, representing not the Army, but the civilian administration. So much, what I'm saying is not on behalf of the Army, but on behalf of the government policy. I understand that it bothers you, but that's the way it is. You're saying I'm not a real talker and at the same time you're saying it's impossible to respect a single sentence in the resolution. Maybe that's the way it is for you. You who swear to the rule of law, to the new system of values, to democracy, to the court's decisions, convince me that I do not respect Parliament's decision. In what way? Maybe you're allowed to do it, maybe you can do it, maybe you have a clear conscience. I wouldn't have a clean conscience. It is simply that kind of decision that Parliament makes that I cannot violate. What do I want intimately? I must tell you that I agree that if a contingent had gone to Afghanistan in 2003, the history of the Serbian people might have been different today. Also, you, as a very influential politician at the time, had to know that it was a great error. You've led the whole nation astray. A thousand soldiers sent to Afghanistan, for rotation, it's an impossible mission today, not in 2003. If you have anyone in the Army who understands that, ask if that was possible. We're talking about seven soldiers today. You're giving me a lecture that we didn't send a thousand at the time. It's impossible. It's impossible today, a thousand. And that's not Serbia, much stronger developed countries can't send in one rotation of thousands of soldiers, because that literally means a minimum of three thousand soldiers for that peace mission. On the other hand, I have to tell you that I've been living with people who wear uniforms for two years, and I don't think that's true -- put a hat on your head so you don't have anything on your mind. I think it's underestimating these people. I think it's time for us. Yesterday I told you that we have officers who are today the most modern and progressive part of society. I'd like you to say some things that are factual when you criticize. For the first time in our country's history, a Strategic Defence Review was adopted, a document by NATO standard, which we worked for the first time in the region. The National Security Strategy is over, the Defence Strategy was done, for the first time by the Military Act, the Defence Act. There are two other laws in Parliament, a law on military, labour and material obligations, a civil service law, a law on agencies, and a law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations and beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Believe me, I understand the criticism, but this is something worth respecting. It's not just my work. It's the work of a big system of people who work on it, for the first time we're finishing something that hasn't been done in decades, not even at a time when you were more influential as a politician than I am now. It didn't bother you at the time. Then you had sympathy for yourself. You're criticizing something today, referring to the time when it was a mistake. I repeat, phenomenal ideas, unreal, impossible to achieve. On the other hand, what's very important to me that you know, we're not going with NATO to Chad. That's not true. This is an invitation letter from the UN. Because Mr Krasic doesn't have that letter, it's another thing, I really don't know how it's possible that it didn't come to you. As far as the proposal says it's going since April or May, I thought it was a mistake, too. They told me it wasn't a problem, the government's Legislative Committee told me it wasn't a problem, but I expected you, as a responsible politician, to put on an amendment, to change it and agree on things that don't change logically. If a large number of developed countries, both you and a large part of Serbia's society, accepts that our defence system is reforming and changing much faster than our society, I don't see who gives you the right to deny it. For what? Today many countries see our country through our army. Our army, believe me, today is strong, modern, to the extent that we inherited the problems we have. Unfortunately, it would be good if we didn't have a problem in the '90s. I said just now, 38 generals working and 756 general pensions; almost twice as many pensioners on our budget as employees. It's not the minister's fault before me or the minister before him. We're simply solving problems that have been inherited in two decades. There's something else I want to tell you. Today I'm explaining something here for the first time; it's not easy, although it seems simple, and I believe that everything from that place seems simple. Some people need to go where they fight for life. Explain here for Afghanistan, so simply say – it's nothing, it might seem like nothing to you. I had a chance to speak to the Chief of Staff of the United States Army, a man who, in practice, lost a soldier in one day; it is possible that, while we were talking, he lost a soldier. Such decisions should have a much greater consensus than what you're talking about because it's about people's lives. It's got to be clear to every citizen why we're here today listening to people go into a peace operation. Those who sacrifice their lives to help our country, we are today saying that they are servants of the regime. I support much of the exposure and I agree, but the difference between what you're saying and what I'm saying is that I'm bound by the law, like a man who's in the government, and I have to commit to the law. Maybe you don't like it, maybe you've been doing it differently for a while; I don't doubt it is, if you're convincing me in public here that's how it should be. I simply cannot change what you have offered in Parliament as such. Is a sentence of judgment in a court of law? Explanations can have a hundred pages. You don't have to respect any judgments in court, because there's only one sentence. I'm sorry, but it is, and as long as it is, the defense system will work. What is important is to say, to make it easier for you, we work together with everyone, both in the region and in the framework of NATO and in the East. Today I had a delegation from Pakistan, and I was also in Austria. Believe me, there is no country in Europe that does not want to host our ministry. We are not able to exchange delegations, for the simple reason we are trying to save money in the budget, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we are trying to reduce that number of trips, because our army has become interesting and beyond our country. Last year, 141 officers, cadet and a senior officer trained in our country from abroad. You know when that was the last time? Before Tito died. Things change in a system that's very big more slowly than in a smaller system, but trust me, thoroughly. No one will ever be able to put them back where they were. I assure you there is no politics in the Army. Last year, when a decision on Kosovo's unilateral declaration was made, no officers were found on stage for the first time, nor were any members of the military or any cadet from the Academy arrested, no one in the defence system was registered by the police to make any incident. There are things that are clearly defined. The question of how I run the system and whether I should consult you every day, so it's impossible, simply, it's unnatural. Ask your colleague Milic if, when he led the Ministry of the Interior, he went to Parliament every day to explain what he was doing? Did he explain when they were replacing people in the police force? What's the Change of Pride? It's not even in my jurisdiction, by law, but I'm telling you, the system works, it's better now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21603	Thank you. Mr. Krasic, replica. Nothing was offensive, maybe just... (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Perhaps you weren't there. )......................................................................................................... All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21604	I know it was pleasant for you, but it was offensive for me, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Mr. Sutanovac, "if the goat lies, the horns don't lie." ''March 28th. In 2008, Norway today announced recognition of Kosovo's independence, the government in Oslo said, but they were preparing for another 20 February 2008, meaning three days after the self-proclaim. What did the Republic of Serbia do? "The Serbian Foreign Ministry has today sent a protest note to the Government of Norway for the recognition of KIM's independence, in line with the foreign ministry's action plan adopted by the Serbian government. Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic ordered the immediate withdrawal of Serbian ambassadors to Norway, Vladislav Mladenovic's today, etc. You probably know what the government is doing, considering you're not a military part, but you're a political part of the executive government. You're waving a letter. Here's what you wrote - the basis for considering engagement is the invitation letter from the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, Ms. Anna Gret-Stram Erihsen, directed by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, that professional members of the Sanitary Service of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia are engaged in the membership of the Norwegian contingent in the UN Peace Mission in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic. That's what you delivered. You were invited by the United Nations? Oh, Mr. Sutanovac, you're paid not to work in the state service, you understand? The sooner you realize it, the easier it'll be for you and us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21605	The word has been made by MP Miroslav Markicevic, representative of New Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure? Replica, too, here you go. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21606	Mr. Minister, despite you asking yourself questions that no one has asked you, and then you give these questions a bad answer, I'll stick to just a few basic facts. I was very clear when I said that I think it would be much better for this country if the first initiatives that came from your ministry were strategies that you say were adopted, which we never talked about here, and the laws you wrote, which we don't see on the agenda of our sessions. It would be much better if we had these strategies and those laws, perhaps now we would not be having a debate within this agenda point in the way it is conducted, but this would be the technical vote of an initiative that is fully in line with the previous decisions that Parliament has made. When I talk about politics, I'm sorry, but the management of the Department of Defense can't be the sole job of the government. When the uniform is put on, then the differences between the authorities and the opposition stop. I'm allowed to participate. None of you ask that you here inform us daily about what's going on. I just drew attention to the damage that followed the absence of concrete attitudes in a conflict that is by no means unique to Serbia. And in many other systems, politicians and generals disagree. Bush himself was criticised by his generals, so he replaced them, but it was spoken openly. We don't think there's any reason to avoid such a thing. No one said that you should do this, that should be done by those who are responsible for such a thing, but not in the evening of New Year's holidays, but in a very clear and responsible way. I don't think reading the decision on television is enough. If you think that's enough, fine. There's something else I want to tell you -- you're not right to mention that in 2003, and you're bidding here with a number of soldiers. I'm talking politics, not the number of soldiers. The number of soldiers must be established by the Ministry of Defense. These are symbolic gestures, first of all. It is true that soldiers are killed there and none of us want to send people into pointless adventures where they will lose their lives. We just think that if we want to contribute to a collective security system, to be part of that planetary, integrated security system, let's do it in the most concrete way, not enter that space at a small door. And other countries in our environment have their representatives there. We think it would be much more useful for us, given our ambition, that we did it that way. Why were there no political preconditions for such a thing? Because a government that had such a insistence was destroyed. As for your adjudications to my conscience, acting in accordance with the law or not, there cannot be one resolution by respecting only one of its sentences without the impression that these are just excuses. There are much stronger obligations of this resolution to your government, Mr. Sutanovac, so you don't respect those obligations. As far as I'm concerned, we voted against that resolution in the Assembly and were the only party that said at the time that there was no sense of a policy that ignored life, the only party who spoke openly and honestly here, the day after the declaration of Kosovo independence, that in this way we do not want to deal with politics. Now I'm telling you, in the first sentence, we support your decision. Why haven't we submitted the amendment? Because I don't think it's polite for a member of parliament to change the wording of the Ministry of Defense... (President: Time. Bring the end. )......................................................................................................... And we've turned your attention to such logic and asked you to answer what you didn't do, to explain something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21607	The word is from Mr Miroslav Markicevic, representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21608	Madam President, thank you for your promotion, but I'm just the deputy head of the New Serbia Group. President-in-Office, Mr. Defence Minister, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I will try to differ somewhat from colleagues who spoke before me, but not because of some of them, or their presentations, not agreeing, but not to waste time. I hope Mr. Secretary of Defense doesn't turn today's session into a circus, like yesterday, because today we're working on the Rules of Procedure, unlike yesterday's session, where the minister had the right to speak as much as he wants, and the MPs are only three minutes away. Mr. Secretary of Defense, my Secretary of Defense, I would like to present myself to you personally, in military terms, personally. I was born in 1958, serving the JNA army in the 271st light artillery regiment in Zadar, and carrying the badge of an appropriate soldier. I'm not ashamed of it, I'm proud of it, and of course I'd be much more proud to be born a little later, so I served the Serbian army, or the Army of Serbia. That doesn't mean you're going to avoid answering some questions in this exhibit of mine. Believe me, I won't accept a guy's answers, like you did yesterday. You don't understand, you're not informed. I speak pure Serbian. You know, you come to my neighborhood, as it is spoken in pure Serbian, and I expect you to answer some questions in a pure Serbian language loud and clear. As for today's decision, which we need to make here or not, which you have proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and as regards sending our peacekeeping mission to Chad, I will only stick to the fact, and not to those I may know, and not only in reason, but only to the fact that you have given under III – the characteristics of the United Nations Peace Mission in the Republic of Chad, etc. I'm not reading this because of my fellow MPs, because everyone has this in front of them, not because of you, Mr. Defence Minister, but because of the citizens of Serbia, who are watching a direct transmission right now. You wrote here, or someone from your ministry: "The current security situation in the eastern part of the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic is unstable. EU and UN field forces reports say the possibility of restoring rebel attacks after the end of the rainy season has been increased. In the past, there has been an increase in the positions of conflicted parties on both sides of the border between the Republic of Chad and the province of Darfur. "Lords of the People's Messengers, that's what we watch every night. Just to find out from these facts what we're getting ourselves into. "The National Army of the Republic of Chad and the rebel groups are also strengthening their positions to prevent surprise attacks. A rise in crime has been registered, in the form of armed robberies and attacks on vehicles and workers of humanitarian aid organisations. Also, in the eastern part of the Republic of Chad, there are locations where thousands of unexploded means of murder, which pose a real threat to security. In particular, local populations and representatives of humanitarian aid organisations are at risk, often present at those locations. "This means that this applies to our, possibly, mission, our doctors and soldiers; they are with rank, therefore, military doctors. "The threat also poses constant pressure on persons placed in refugee camps, which are recruited in the composition of rebel groups. There's a lot of kids among the recruits. The reason for this is the absence of adequate security forces on the ground. The supply of humanitarian aid by air is limited and should be improved after signing an agreement between the EU and the Russian Federation on the part of Russian air transport missions. Certain humanitarian organisations have left the eastern part of the Republic of Chad because of the current security situation and issued a statement that they are unable to do their job until the security situation is improved. The deployment of UN forces, which will replace the European Union's force since March 2009, is believed to contribute to improving the security and humanitarian situation on the ground. "These are not my facts and my observations, but yours, which you gave us in your explanation, I guess, to make it easier to accept or not to accept this decision that you are proposing. I ask you, as Minister of Defense, and Chief of Staff, and all the command forces at the Ministry of Defense, whoever is asking themselves in this army, what guarantees are you giving, not these people, they will go there voluntarily, as you say to us, Serbian citizens, that these people there, in their humanitarian activities, will live safely and return to their families and to us here? We're a patriotic country, no matter how sophisticated that term is. We witnessed recently that a civilian American captain there was captured by pirates. The whole country and nation, rightly raised, concerned about his life. And we're worried about these people going there. Do you believe that I speak honestly, as a third-party man, as a man who raises a soldier, who will not serve civil service, my son, but militaryly, with a model rifle that is then, even in the professional army? Will you, Mr. Minister, believe it or not, let the Serbian citizens who are watching this, because I'm telling you the truth. The introduction to the second moment I want to warn you here, which I would like you to answer, is this point 3 - origin of the conflict. Here is what it says in the material that all MPs received: "The UN mission in the eastern part of the Republic of Chad and the northeast part of the Central African Republic has been established to preserve peace in the region and prevent the spread of the crisis from Sudan (the region Darfur) to neighbouring countries. The regions of the eastern part of the Republic of Chad and Darfur of the Western Sudan are inhabited by the same tribes, who do not recognise any authority and are committed to their tribal leaders. '"Can we know, Mr. Minister, what tribe does this mission of ours go to? Who is the chief of this tribe? This is what you wrote here, not me. So it is said of tribal leaders: "The tribe of Zagawa, to which the current President of the Republic of Chad, Mr Debbie," is read, "is one of the three main tribes that were engaged in the struggles against the Government of Sudan", and now we introduce Sudan here, "at the very beginning of the conflict. Mr. Debbie, on the Sudanese side, blames himself for silent support for anti-Sudan movements in the Republic of Chad, which is why rebel groups against the government in the Republic of Chad are organised and supported in Sudan. In the eastern part of the Republic of Chad there are more than 290,000 refugees and 180,000 internally displaced persons whose survival depends entirely on humanitarian aid. '"To some people this may be funny, I don't. I happen to know how the state borders were built there. Those who made them kill themselves are now a peace mission, you run a peace mission, NATO or I don't know who. You drew, Mr. Minister, you know it, just like I do. We've studied geography, geography, history, though, I'm a lot older than you, and we know that's where the lines are drawn - by six. The imperialist forces, the capitalist, the occupiers, are the ones who defied those poor peoples, where the house against the house, the tribe against the tribe, that they didn't even know what they started with, but we're looking at only Darfur and those horrifying scenes. It would be human if we didn't have our problems, if they hadn't done it with us here, in the Balkans, that's why hundreds of thousands of people died, and now we don't know, none of us, not how it started, not who's guilty. In such a situation, in such a situation, military-politically, you send our mission. Another moment I want to highlight concerns the security of Serbian citizens. I want you to tell us what possible security risks are that, because of our sincere desire that, through our people, military doctors, this dream team, so to speak, we help unhappy people out there, our people get hurt, civilians here? Is there a possibility of such a thing? Is there any possibility that a widow, or some suicide-threater, would come to Belgrade, or to our cities, if she estimates that, because of the Serbian flag and the Serb coat of arms that our representatives will be wearing on this mission, she has not achieved any tribal views and wishes, any conquests? There is. Every thinking man is truly afraid of it. I hope you took that into consideration. If there's anything in the domain of state secrets, just say the word, I won't say another word to you. You have answered an honest and honest question to me, I thank you honestly, however you understand it; you have declared it a state secret, a red seal, and I do not want to talk about it. It's just, I have to tell you, Mr. Defence Minister, in an interview with the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army, Mr. Miletic, of 30.05, in News, half of what you said was a state secret, and I'll respect that, he said. They can understand what people are and what is not a secret. As a member of the Security Committee, I signed that statement and I will respect it. I'll just warn you of two or three questions he's got and how he answered them. One of these issues is – what is foreseen in the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy recently adopted by the Serbian Government? Here's what the Serbian general said. I say that with great respect and respect. ''These are the most important strategic documents governing the defence system. They define a global and regional security environment, potential threats to the country's security and determine missions and tasks of the military. Once these documents pass the verification in Parliament, we will adopt the doctrine of the Serbian Army, which will round up the legal normative framework for the functioning of the Army. '"I realized that these doctrines and all these documents have not yet passed Parliament. Question number two. How do you comment on criticism that these documents do not explicitly state whether the country should join NATO or remain militaryly neutral? Chief of Staff says – The military is acting in accordance with the decisions of the Assembly, which adopted the Resolution on military neutrality in December 2007, so that changes in this matter are also in Parliament's jurisdiction. Mr. Minister, we are now asking the question of civilian control. He continues to say in the interview – enough in the Ministry of Defence and in the military, in important places, people in civilians. You're one of those civilians, too. What you are exhibiting both politically and as defence minister is in favour of it; it is your legal human and political right. I believe you might honestly think so. I'm sorry, you may honestly think we should be in NATO, but the Chief of Staff says otherwise. Who's in control of who now? Is it his fault that he doesn't listen to you say we should go to NATO, but says he will respect the Assembly's decision that we are a military neutral country? I don't know how I'd ask the general. I don't have the right under the Rules of Procedure. At the end of my presentation, I've left little time to defend myself against your bursting fires that I expect after my speech. No problem, I'm here, there's no Cobra behind me, there's no Army, I'm just a little MP from Chuck, Mr. Minister, and don't get too hot. Everything I'm saying, I mean honestly. I'd like to ask General Miletic, Chief of Staff, how does he feel when he stands still and submits a report to the defence minister wearing a party sign on his lapel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21609	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21610	Mr. Minister, the DSS opposes this decision. We don't think she's good. At the very beginning, I'm going to tell you that there is no dispute between you and me over the facts that you've expressed, in terms of political interpretation, but there is a policy dispute that is being conducted. When it comes to the history of Serbia's participation in various peacekeeping missions, everything you've said is true, and when it comes to the date, and the types of missions, including who it is and when it's approved to send those missions, or how it participates in international operations. What we don't agree on, it's pure politics, it has nothing to do with military technical opportunity. It is a question of what happens, in a political sense, with one date and later consequences related to that date, which is 17 February 2008, when there was an illegal declaration of independence of Kosovo, and what kind of repercusion of that date and later dates, when certain states recognised Kosovo's independence, have on certain political decisions arising from the executive authority of this state, i.e. the overall policy course of this country? When it comes to foreign affairs, we have talked about this on several occasions, unfortunately, at least in the presence of Foreign Minister Mr. Jeremic, and we are going to talk about this, although in a technical sense it has nothing to do with the idea of sending a mission to a peace operation within the UN. Why do we think we shouldn't do this the way you suggested? Because this invitation has formally come from the Kingdom of Norway and we will, as planned, join the United Nations contingent of the Kingdom of Norway, which is not disputed, as it is not disputed that, under the flag of the UN, and the Kingdom of Norway, as well as Serbia, will have its flags. Those are indisputable facts. It is also indisputable that no one will leave without their will, that it will be a voluntary engagement. It is also indisputable that in some different circumstances this type of engagement can be useful for the development of the armed forces in the state of Serbia. It is also indisputable that, in meeting the military's objectives, it can be one of the very significant springboards, but what we will dispute and where we will not agree, is that, from February 17th to February 2008, not since the 17th of 2008, but from individual recognitions of independent Kosovo by the Member States of individual international organisations, above all, I think of the NATO Alliance, we can continue to act the same, on the principle of equal political opportity, as if these events had not happened? Our political belief is that we can't behave the same way. By reading the explanation of your proposal, I find several views that would be perfectly clear and sufficient to base such a decision, or to make such a decision that the situation is otherwise. For example, at one point, it is said that when this decision is taken to send our Sanitary Mission to Chad, this decision would certainly contribute to meeting the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and improving its positions in the international community, greater understanding of the views of the Republic of Serbia in resolving the status of KIM and other unresolved issues. That attitude would be in principle correct, but how do we think sending the Mission in collaboration with the Kingdom of Norway will contribute to a overall better understanding of the foreign policy position, especially greater understanding of Serbia's views when it comes to resolving KIM's status? Do we expect that the fact that the mission is sent in this way will significantly change the circumstances and convince a member of the UN, who will participate in this mission, that, because of such participation in this operation, it is important, or at least somewhat, to change its position on the KIM status and what a direct correspondence with the efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we are otherwise challenging, i.e. their opportunity, but these efforts, what are they, exist? So this direct relationship is not easy to determine. When it comes to the basics of engagement, the basis is considered an agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Minister of Defence of the State. It was based on a previous act, a Memorandum of Understanding between Serbia and Norway in co-operation in the area of defence. It was signed on 10 November 2006. When he was signed, he must have been needed. Why did I cite the illegal self-declaration of KIM independence in the context of this story, as well as later confessions? Where's the waterhouse? The waterworks are that our political position, our political opinion cannot accept your view that everything is so simple and that everything can continue along the same path as if some events have not happened. What you're laughing about right now, and you don't understand what I'm saying until the end, is next. It does not mean that after such events, communication with the international community should be interrupted, nor with those countries that have recognised KIM's independence, but efforts should be stepped up to overcome bilateral problems that have arisen in this way. It seems to me, and this seems to me to be the good part of Serbia's citizens, and you haven't convinced the contrary that these efforts seem insufficient and that certain topics are completely missed. If you allow EULEX to enter the KIM territory without a decision of the National Assembly, with the condition of about 6 points, none of which, minority, are met, and this mission that the EU is doing is aimed at affirming Ahtisaari's plan, which clearly states that Kosovo should be an independent state, although it says -- conditionally, but it does not mean anything, then the question arises – what is the policy goal of the Republic of Serbia, what is the goal of Boris Tadic, the president of the state and president of the largest party of the ruling coalition? That's what we've been talking about for months. It may be something you don't want us to understand, but I believe it is something that will easily be understood by the citizens of Serbia and know that these two circumstances differ. What happens next? A call from the Kingdom of Norway. We do not go directly to the UN's call, nor engage directly in that contingent in this way. The call was made by a state which, regardless of the previously concluded agreements and regardless of what it did much when it came to helping Serbia in various areas, including local self-government, recognised the independence of KIM. From that moment on, the issue of realising important interstate agreements that we have with that state must be questioned at least partially, and this agreement and the realisation of this agreement through individual acts, such as the agreement of two defence ministers, should not be a valid basis in a political sense for the establishment of such participation in the Mission. That's what you need to be told today and that's where we differ, because you obviously think that's quite enough and that our arguments in this domain aren't strong enough, and that's the question of political opportunism and political view of things. Furthermore, your proposal says that the financial defence plan of the Republic of Serbia for 2009 did not plan the funds for the implementation of this mission, and then you say that the funds will be made available through redistribution of the appropriations, the Law of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget, under Section 9. It just means that you didn't think about the realisation of this mission, the specific business, when the budget came to the vote in the Republic Parliament. The question then simply arises – what is this about and how is it possible that in one era, which I hope will not last too long, total savings, when there are serious problems in the economy and society, one might think that this and this aspect is politically opportunised to allocate additional funds, regardless of what is only a redistribution in the budget for this purpose? Yesterday, in response to parliamentary questions, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic asked one of our MPs when he asked to be more isolated for agriculture – excuse me, but from where? If he asked him - excuse me, but from where, then he could remember that in the National Assembly this bill, that there was this argument, he probably also attended that cabinet session and looked at this, and that it might have been an opportunistic, economical one for this country not to spend these funds for these needs, but to be, at least in that part, in as much volume as it was given for agricultural subsidies in this country. One more thing, when we talk about the issue of military neutrality, the issue of military neutrality as given in the National Assembly Resolution today has no direct link to participation in UN peacekeeping missions. Participation in UN peacekeeping missions does not violate the principle of military neutrality and, formally speaking, there should be no objection. However, the overall political message sent by these countries to those countries that have an obvious intention, which they are carrying out, is being violated to violate our integrity by their decisions. If we have said, in this country, most of us have decided that Serbia should take a position of military neutrality and that position can be changed by the will of citizens, which is expressed through the referendum, and the position must be, as a political stance, so firm that other policies that are parallelly sent must be emanated by that spirit (I am talking about political attitude, political opportunity, not form), if this was an attitude and that attitude should be demonstrated, it is also demonstrated at such things. I am not saying that it is not necessary to co-operate in the frameworks of the UN to contribute to peacekeeping missions, but it does not need to be co-operated technically. There are other forms of co-operation and some for which your ministry would not be competent. No one here is talking about it, nor should you think that Serbia should ignore its international obligations. It must adhere to them, but must adhere to its own views, in order to defend its own integrity. Yes, Mr. Minister, everything you've said so far in the opening statement, as it were, it's true. It can't be said that participation in a mission is not good for the Serbian Army. It cannot be said that engagement within international organisations such as the UN is not good for the Republic of Serbia. It is all true, but I am afraid that in the policy that you are leading, not you but Boris Tadic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in all logic, you are releasing an important link, which obviously disturbs you to see the whole thing in a whole way and not to miss it, which is exactly what you are doing, to protect the elemental interests of the state, because there is always some interest that interferes with it from someone else. In a conversation with Zoran Ostojic of LDP, I had him almost, for the daily "Politika", he stressed that for him, public interest is the beauty of the Zemun kei. Yes, and for me, it's how I can dispute that attitude. The only problem is that he forgot some other interest before that, that's the point. So, in the changed circumstances that arise, decisions that acted before these changed circumstances as completely coherent, in accordance with all the principles that you're up to here today, can appear as extremely politically unported at some other point. What we're obviously going to be different is that moment, and not something else in this whole story, and that's why we're against making this decision, because we think that these funds can be much better used in the existing situation. When it comes to responding to obligations towards the international community and certain international documents and how our country needs to gain respect, it is enough to give you only one example that has to do with your ministry and even more with the Foreign Ministry. This is the relationship to the Osla Agreement on the ban on production, use and storage of tape ammunition, which has so far been signed and ratified by over 100 countries, which our country has not yet. Although Jeremic himself participated in numerous meetings and conferences on the issue, there is no reaction. In our country you have over 2,500, they say, you're going to deny me, this is the first fact that we're talking about, and if I can hear the answer, if something different from what I said, I accept, means, over 2,500 unexploded cartridges, cluster bombs, that threaten in an indirect and direct way about 80,000 inhabitants of this country, given the position they are in. It's serious stuff. If we say that we have to meet international obligations, which is not disputed, first we have to respond to our own country's obligations, the obligation to endanger our own integrity. We've just got a UN mission on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Before we send our soldiers, however humanely we are, to other countries, and then we take care of other international obligations, given our closer history and all the troubles that have hit us here, to the death of those same cluster bombs that have been experienced and carried on by the citizens of Serbia, that some things change there. So my disagreement with you is not in the field of facts, in the area of military technical opportunity of your proposal. He's indisputable here. My dispute with you is in the field of political opportunity of the proposal in the given political circumstances and its significance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21611	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21612	I don't know why you don't believe me, but this document is from the UN, it was sent from our embassy, and it was signed by Mr. Pavle Jevremovic, appointed ambassador in the time when you decided on it as a party. He speaks English. I'll translate, it's not a problem if someone doesn't understand. So, in accordance with Resolution 1861, the UN General Secretariat is urgently asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make a medical evacuation team available for MINURCAT activity in Chad. Believe me, what you're saying about our activity is clear to everyone now and I'm glad it is. In terms of tape ammunition, to agree on one thing, I hope we will. I am willing that today the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia will adopt a proposal that would go much wider than the Republic of Serbia, that would go to the world, to the UN, I don't know where, to put out all the weapons in the world, to demilitarize the whole world, to share flowers with soldiers, to ban the use of every ammunition, to ban the killing, to ban wars, to ban any danger that comes from every kind of ammunition, and even the tape. But we can't play with that thing. If Russia, China, and the United States have not denied themselves the ability to defend themselves with tape ammunition, neither can we, in a way that someone would make a decision without any analysis. This is a matter of profession. If the General Staff tells us that we would jeopardize our country's combat preparedness, our country's defence capabilities, if we were to put an end to it, I have no right to say -- never mind, that's what some MPs like, it's now modern, nice, interesting, so let's do it. What we're fundamentally different from each other is when you say that after 17 February last year we can't behave the same way. That's what I really think. We can't behave the same way we did until February 17th, 2008. The autism that exists occasionally among those who think that nothing happened and that we can continue with the same policy, act the same, put us in the situation we're in. If we don't put ourselves in the post of our country's defence, but stick our head in the sand, pretending that this is how we help citizens, both in this part of Serbia and in Kosovo, it's not true. To be a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly at the same time, and here in Parliament to speak against NATO, that is immoral. Taking diaries to travel to Brussels and speaking against NATO is, too, immoral. I think we have some things to define, what's true and what's not. If we are talking about what citizens agree or disagree with today, we should know what capacity we are talking about. I never said that all citizens in Serbia think this or that. It's all in the election. You know perfectly well what that policy you've had, which we don't even know where it's going today. Where does politics lead – “I don’t know where I’m going”? Where does politics go – "it's not the same, it's different, but we're going to act like it's the same, and in fact something's going to happen past us"? We are trying to change the international community's relationship to Serbia by action, trying to put ourselves in line with countries that care about global peace. It is true that the situation is unstable in Chad. It's true to any mother who sends her son there, it won't matter. I expect you to pray as much as other countries pray for their soldiers beyond the borders of their country that they may be safe there. If you expect me to accept all responsibility, I'm sorry, you will make the decision. On the other hand, people themselves will accept it or not. Everything you're talking about, I'd take it as a well-intentioned thing, and I'm sorry I don't have a chance to talk to my colleague Jocic, who I respected most from your group in the government. At a time when he was a minister, the Haitian police, without Parliament's decision, were in a difficult situation. You never stood up to tell him that, to tell him – excuse me, do you know that things changed on February 17th, why didn't you bring the Haitian police back? There's another peace mission where the police are, I can't remember which country. So it's important that we don't have a day-to-day political debate here. This is a strategic decision in this House, more importantly, believe me, than many of the laws we've passed. This decision puts us in line for globally responsible countries in the world. We can choose not to be, we can exclude ourselves from events in the world, but we cannot bypass that the South Stream is passing through Bulgaria, which is in NATO and the EU, and we cannot bypass that we are asking Bulgaria today to give us the South Stream through Serbia. It's just, it's facts. As long as you keep your head in the sand as much as you watch some 2001 research, citizens react differently. Citizens seek dynamics, change, life. Citizens are looking for the opportunity to express their virtues. This really is a tough decision. objectively, I say again, the peace operation is not shopping, it's not going to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, this is a serious matter, in which serious people will participate. Whoever won't, of course they won't, but all I'm saying is that we have to treat these people like pie. We can't talk about patriotism and say they're going under the sea. It's just not like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21613	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21614	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs should see the Serbian public who is at the head of the defence ministry, what kind of man and how he addresses the MPs. I strongly protest because Dragan Sutanovac injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure and Rule 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 10. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia specifies that Serbian and Cyrillic script are in official use in Serbia. Madam President, since I know very well that you speak English perfectly, imagine what it would be like if you, as you think of, and I know that you would never do so, or would consider the domain of your area if one of us did so here, would help in that sense, if someone, Mrs. Donka Banovic, who is a professor of English, spoke to the public and to the MPs in English. Is it because of some complex, or my incursions, or jokes yesterday, that he doesn't know and speaks English, you see what a man is fishing on, the Shutanovac now wanted to demonstrate, with a very bad accent, that he knows something of it, but, on the other hand, the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, because in this way no one can address the National Assembly. If you're under the impression of talking to Beyden, Mr. Sutanovac, you can't talk like that in front of a home you forgot you were a member of, and that's when you boasted that you brought democratic changes to Serbia. Cedomir Jovanovic should then have taught you, as head of the parliamentary group, that the amendment could not be made on the proposal, since you honored him that he could have submitted the amendment, so that he could change what is called a civilian mission reference, or what we are discussing, which I will talk about later. I am indeed warning you, both as a representative of the main opposition party and as someone who holds to Parliament's dignity, that you do not humiliate the MPs. You're someone over here who we have a supervisory vision and you should speak politely to the MPs, no matter what political parties they come from.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21615	Mr. Vladan Batic. Here you go. (Milos Aligrudic: Replica. There is no basis for replication. You're not directly mentioned anywhere. Please, if you've identified yourself anywhere, I haven't recognized you anywhere. (Milos Aligrudic: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21616	I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I've told you a hundred times now that when someone comes to you on the basis of a line of rights, it's not your will to give or not, but to interpret those two views of that member of the Rules of Procedure that talk about when someone has the right to reply. When you determine, as chairman, that these conditions have been met, it is your obligation to give the replica, not to assess whether anyone could have recognized himself in presenting the predecessors or not. It is obvious that it is the minister's answer to my presentation, with a direct reference to what I said, for example, about tape ammunition, when he talked about some countries having no interest in it, and this agreement was signed by Germany and the UK. That was the reason for me to answer him, you can't dispute that right, as you can't deny me the right to tell him that there was a misunderstanding between me and him when he said that I, or we don't believe that there is a letter from the UN, which is not even disputed, but in the light of this decision there are clear reasons why the agreement between Norway and Serbia is considered the main basis that arises from this letter. It's a short replica. Now I've just done it, pointing to your breach of the Rules of Procedure. This would take as long as it took, minus the time I've been talking to you. If you think your attitude is in the way you interpret the Rules of Procedure, or useful for this discussion and for the atmosphere in the National Assembly, then you wear that cross. I'm saying it's not. This is how you behave, given the number of people present in the hall, the quality of the debate and what the debate is about to achieve, it's absolutely counterproductive.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21617	Mr. Aligrudić, Mr. Minister has just explained, or responded to your comments in the debate. That's how I realized his exposure. I think he and everyone else figured it out. So it's okay if you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to make a statement to the Assembly? (Milos Aligrudic: Absolutely, I want him to plead. ( ) Absolutely, the congregation will declare itself. Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21618	Madam President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the DHSS, I support the motion for a decision to send representatives of our army to the UN Peace Mission to Chad. Mr. Minister, maybe the text of the decision should be drawn up legally, because if we're taking it in a Semantic interpretation, it turns out that it means convalitating some of the decisions that have already been made. It should be in this time and brought by this parliament, purely to be legally-technically fully regulated. I think the participation of our army's representatives in the United Nations Peace Corps is a continuation of the tradition our army once had. If you want, this symbolically exceeds both the importance and role of the Army. This is a kind of recognition of Serbia, a new beginning for the state of Serbia, which is manifested this way, but at the same time means Serbia's return to the family of European and world states and peoples, from which for years, even two decades, has been declared and isolated. After all, Serbia, if we remember, was the 22nd member state of the People's Society, precedes the UN. This is our international legal obligation as members of the UN. This, I repeat, is a certain recognition and a certain message for both the military and the state, for the army which, as a participant of the winning alliance in the First World War, the whole world respected, respected and appreciated. That World War I epic raised the Serb army and its generals to a level of global size and world personality. The doctrine of the duke, or military leader, or generals of the Serb army, has been studied for years and decades in individual military schools and universities abroad. This is a small sequel to this tradition. That's why I don't think too much politics should be put into all this, especially not too much politics. I understand that those who, for example, advocated a confederation with Russia and Belarus remained consistent and opposed this decision. I also understand those whose representatives were at the Bas Party meetings of Saddam Hussein, or the Communist Party of China, which are against this decision. There are some who had such a policy. Today, fortunately, they rose. Some of them are silent and have become members of the Order of Mother Teresa, and the word is not spoken, but well, every change is useful. Those to whom Milosevic was commander-in-chief, they forgot. Those who think that Cominterna almost ruled these premises, and they gave up on it. It shouldn't be too autistic, because this mission has something that is beyond our international legal obligations and outside of membership in the UN, has an appropriate humanitarian character. Let's get past something that made us isolated, released, which was unnecessary despite our damage. This is not a participation in NATO forces. This is not a part of the Partnership for Peace Force either. These are the UN forces, even through Norway, which is our traditional friend. I repeat once again, on behalf of the DHSS, I support the proposal for this decision, asking that it be legally technically brought into order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21619	Thank you. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with the order of the MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of PUPS, NS, ZES, DSS and SRS. The word has a folk MP, Dr Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21620	Dear President, Mr. Minister, MPs, dear colleagues, Dr. Batic has started a story, and I have to continue it. In Paris, Professor Vesnic signed Serbia's League of People's accession, which is the UN's predecessor. Professor Milenko Vesnic also gave the embassy building in the Jelisejsko fields, it is his private property, he gave it to Serbia. For this reason, the PUPS and I, as a doctor, are in agreement and we will vote for this decision by the Serbian government, because I think there is no policy in making the decision. This is a confession to our medical school, our doctrine, our neutrality, our non-engagement in world terms. Serbia was like that, Serbia remains that way. This is not about soldiers carrying weapons and other equipment, but about the UN helmet and the Serbian heart, the knowledge of the Medical Faculty, or the Military Medical Academy. That's why, Mr. Minister, PUPS will vote for this in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21621	Mr. Minister, may I ask you a personal favor? Mr. Secretary can't hear. I wanted to ask you, what time is it? I don't know if you heard me. I wanted to ask you to tell me what time it is. But it doesn't matter, what's important and what's the point of this question is that I noticed that you like to wear very nice and expensive watches, which is, of course, your personal thing, which is about good taste, but also about the fact that you have a parole – there is, you can. Judging by your impeccable staging, I doubt you'd be wearing watches made by the Chinese, and carried by more than half of Serbia. What does this have to do with the Peace Mission and Chad? And what is that, because I'm not so sure that you are able to realistically assess the benefits for Serbian citizens of this action from the participation of professional members of the Sanitary Service as part of the Norwegian contingent on the UN Peace Mission. Are you aware that neither the people you promised the European future nor life can wait, that, based on experience, they no longer trust you or your good intentions? Of the rich, whom you claimed to have excellent contacts with them, Serbs received only poored uranium. How can we trust you to believe that there is a national benefit from this action? You say, in the reasons for making a decision – the involvement of professional members of the Sanitary Service of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army as part of the Norwegian contingent in UN peacekeeping missions in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic contributes to meeting the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and improving its positions in the international community, greater understanding of the views of the Republic of Serbia in resolving the status of Kosovo and Metohija and other unresolved issues. Tell us, when Serbia, in your opinion, improves its position in the international community, will it lead to the withdrawal of the 60 countries' decision to recognise the so-called. An independent Kosovo, but, in fact, the first NATO state on Europe's territory? Isn't it a bit of a paradoxic state of participation in the UN Mission in Chad while we have so-called. The UN peace mission on our country's territory? The former involvement of the Republika Srpska Army in UN peacekeeping missions was prior to the recognition of the so-called An independent Kosovo and before the enforcement of legal violence that violated UN Security Council Resolution 1244. To remind you, the Mission to Chad was established by Resolution 1778 of the Security Council, September 25, 2007. Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council, which guarantees the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, was adopted on 10 June 1999. The older you get, the better you can figure it out on your own. It's nice that Mission humanitarian character. It is expected that the honorable Serb army is hiring sanity teams for the care and treatment of not only other members of the Peace Mission, but also of the civilian population and refugee camps and camps of internally displaced persons. In this, unfortunately, we have at least had enough experience, because we have experienced adulthood, since for 18 years, the Serbian people have been constantly taking care of Serbs from all the territories of the former SFRY, for which there are no human rights or freedoms in the countries created by the break-up of the Avenue Yugoslavia. To all of this, we have been abolished the right to give our fellow nations in the southern province an elementary aid, since they are at risk of only one human right, the right to live. Serbia cannot exercise its rights in the occupied part of the territory, and you, as military minister, on May 25th, is it by chance, in 2009, after a gentle encounter, full of positive emotions with Biden, you declare -- Kosovo is as many as citizens living in Cosmet are able to implement it. So you brothers are fighting for yourselves in Serbia, and we are going to be missionaries in Chad. Furthermore, the military ministers present, as Tanjug carried on, you said this – in addition to the diplomatic struggle, we must also fight parallelly for the better lives of all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, especially those who are the most endangered, or non-Albanians. Based on what U.S. Vice President Biden said, there is a conclusion that possible co-operation on a better life. To this you added that his visit to the Ministry of Defence and meeting with the leaders is a confirmation that the United States respects both the Serbian Army and all that we do about implementing reforms and raising standards. Of course this visit is historic for us, that's a fact, because so far it has not happened for the U.S. Vice President to visit the Department of Defense, but this is something else I would have figured out. After this visit, Biden may respect you more, as a successful host of foreign security courses, but it is clear that there is no more respect for the army and the state of Serbia. The same Biden, in Pristina, made it clear – the recognition of an independent Kosovo is an irrevocable process. I don't see who he respected here, except for Shiptara. If you already have such good and human intentions, it wouldn't be bad for you to answer at last, but true, at the request of the families of the victims of RTS, that your ministry submitted evidence that the military and state summit of 23 April 1999 deliberately sacrificed 16 RTS workers. Discover this item 466. Furthermore, where were your good intentions in fulfilling the state obligations when, thanks to your negligence, the Croatian court in Osijek, after almost a year of deprivement of freedom and without one material evidence, sentenced Cedu Jovic, a 46-year-old man, who served as head of security of the Republika Srpska Krajina Army from 1993 to 1995? Should it be more important for you, or at least equally important, to help all indictees in front of The Hague? To clear Serbia's name, the state is obliged to assist in all ways in defence of UN tribunal indictees. Instead, your ministry directly obstructed General Vladimir Lazarevic's efforts to prove that the war in Kosovo and Metohija was defensive. Mr. Aligrudic has already asked you, but I'm asking you and I, can we really act like nothing happened after February 17th? You interpreted it one way and gave an answer that doesn't satisfy me at all. So, we express a reasonable suspicion that sending professional members of the Sanitary Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army to Chad would contribute to the return of trust in important state institutions such as the Army, which has been demoted, disarmed and brought to such low borders that there is confidence among young people that better and washing corpses in the judicial and medical departments, rather than serving a military term in such an army. Well done to you, nothing here was personal. As I said at the outset, you have style, and you have a father-in-law who is a legend of folk music, and I am touched by your personal gesture from just over two months ago, when at the Sarajevo clinical center you gave a letter of support from your father-in-law to a severely injured singer, Halid Beslic. I am especially pleased that you are acting in line with the song by Miroslav Ilic, "Smile, laugh, always laugh," because that optimism is necessary and perhaps really regains the optimism and dignity of the Serb army.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21622	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21623	Mr Markicevic, I don't know what you're applauding, because the Serb young man washes corpses before he serves the Army? Is that what you're looking forward to?- I'm sorry. That makes you happy. It's just not true. For the first time since the possibility of civil service of the military deadline has been introduced, we have more registered to serve in uniform than in civilians. It's a data that has an exact indicator, we have statistics, and that's something you can read without any problems. I would have understood what you were saying well-intentioned in a situation where, for example, the first peacekeeping mission was not in 2002, when Mr. Kostunica was the president of the Republic of Yugoslavia, when we went on the first peacekeeping mission. All this desire to show diversity would be fine if your party president, Mr. Velimir Ilic, had not been to the inauguration of Bush in January 2005 to have the opportunity to touch the president of the United States, the same one who recognised independent Kosovo. You can't stick your head in the sand and think that if you came to this congregation a year, two, three, that the time before that didn't exist. I'm sorry you treat my father-in-law the way you do it. I don't think private and family matters should be brought here. Believe me, there's a lot we could talk about and it wouldn't be easy for you. Mr. Markicevic, I didn't answer one thing. You asked me what I did personally to help the citizens of KIM. There is one hospital in Gracanica, no problem in calling the hospital director and asking if Dragan Sutanovac himself, like Dragan Sutanovac, helped people living in Gracanica. There's a hospital in Chačka. You can call Kosta Milosevic, former director, and ask him if Dragan Sutanovac has ever brought humanitarian aid to the hospital in Cačka, where your children are being treated. There are hospitals in Belgrade, the Institute for Mother and Child, I have more thanks than you graduates from that institute. There are still so many hospitals in Serbia that I personally helped, but I didn't think that as Dragan Sutanovac, I should explain to you what I did personally. There are several children in Serbia who have not been fortunate enough to live with their parents, whom I have helped. It means a lot to me their smile when I see them and believe me, it's not a thing I do for you, or do that thing for politics, I do it for my children and for myself. If it's supposed to be an argument in yours and my debate here about the Mission in Chad, I don't think it's fair. We can sit down after this session, you and I have known each other for nine years, to explain some things that you don't understand, if you don't understand. I can explain it to someone, and I can give someone a watch, so they won't know what time it's in, and they won't understand the time it's in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21624	Mrs. Alexandra was recognized for her watch.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21625	You see, Mr. Sutanovac, I'm having a really hard time saying, I'm coming to say Shunatovac, that's what half of Serbia is saying right now. I didn't bring up your private stuff. I was talking about you being a fan of watches, and I didn't mention that in that one of your collections there are "Carthies of the Old Star", which costs about five thousand, "Kartiers of the Old" gold of about 10,000 euros, "Shopard" chronicler about 4.5 thousand euros, an hour mark of "Brijet Gold Rose", which can hardly be found for less than 15,000 euros, which means you have a collection where watches are not cheaper than one 40,000 euros. Wearing the "Brege" watch, I don't know how to read this, since the official language is Serbian, worth 15,000 euros, otherwise, those watches are known for the prestigious and astronomical price, and on the Internet I've dug up who wore them all: Napoleon Bonaparte, Maria Antoineta, Russian Emperor Alexander, Queen Victoria of England, Winston Churchill, I don't know where you kind of recognize yourself. As for Velimir Ilic and his visits to Bush, if Velimir Ilic really wanted to touch Bush, Kosovo would not now be recognised as independent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21626	Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21627	Without mentioning anyone, if you ever see that I have a pink gold watch on my hand, as read, which would mean some orange gold, I'll give it to you, including those who don't have watches. It's just that it's a thing that's untrue and I'm sorry that there are even some newspapers here that I don't think are civilized. We'll put that aside. My visit to Sarajevo, which was private, you talked about. For what? It's a thing I don't understand. Why would I tell you who you were visiting and who you were visiting? I don't think that's polite and humane. You're a psychologist, as far as I know. It is something that is not allowed, not only in the congregation, but in normal communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21628	Mrs. Jankovic, you have no more words, there was nothing offensive. Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21629	Mr. Minister, I'd be willing to take a look at the stenogram with you and see if you can recall my presentation, which I think was correct, fair and tolerant of you personally. I didn't call you personally or ask you what to do, you just ran a little bit when you mentioned the hospital. I will not, for the sake of respect of Mr. Kosti Milosevic, who I was with for 11 years in the coalition, to talk about the Chačan hospital. It's better if you didn't mention her. If I said everything here, you'd be the G17, all of it, kicked out of here. Do you know that in that hospital, patients are killed by fire extinguishers? Have you heard of it?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21630	Mr. Markicevic, please, we are in more than a serious atmosphere so we can talk about killing patients. I really ask you to keep in mind the dignity of the Assembly, the content of the sentences spoken regarding anyone's death, especially the possible unconscious work of people who do extremely serious work day and night in all health institutions, and in the hospital in Cačka. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21631	Let me finish, ma'am. (President: you can finish. I'm telling the facts, the truth, the whole of Cachak and Serbia, as they know about this 16-month-old child, please. Is it forbidden to talk about it? We'd better say that, so next time doesn't happen. I just want to say to Mr. Sutanovac -- all the honours of Kosti Milosevic, I repeat, it was replaced by the fax, Mr. Sutanovac, I was the only opposition from the other party protesting in the Assembly, you from the DS did not protect him then. There's a man who's important and you know from which party, maybe because he's studied for 17 years. So, I just wanted to tell you that you set a bad example. Every honor you've done, what you've helped, as a Christian, I'm grateful to you, I haven't called you at all. (President: Time. ) Can I use my time as head of Parliament? I've still got time. As a deputy, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21632	The rest is, so you call yourself boss, and I call you representative. Here you go, Mr. Representative of the Parliament Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21633	Deputy, let's hit it once, Madam President. I wanted to tell you that you set a bad example. I'm not arguing with you about your personal merits to any man in this country. If you did all this, maybe as Christians, and we shouldn't talk about what we do, we did, so we did. I didn't mention you at all on that basis. I don't know where you got that, I don't really know. If you've been hit by some data on watches with that mechanism, my colleague Jankovic said, that's another thing. If it bothered you that I applauded, so you spoke to me personally, your colleagues here from the DS, there are these today, I don't know why, a little more than we do, they applaud much more than I do. Why didn't that bother you? Is it because they applaud your big thoughts, and when we talk about criticism, then you don't like it? I want to get back on the subject of this conversation, which you're avoiding. You didn't answer, not to me, but to the citizens of Serbia, what is the security risk if a tribe, or tribal chief, estimates that our doctors are his enemies, so he sends some dangerous dynamite to downtown Belgrade? Does such security assessments exist? You're instructions and you keep saying what happened two years ago, three years ago, who was Prime Minister, who was Minister of Defense. You just looked back at one period when the defence minister was the current president of the state. Are you aware of that? Or do you think -- that's how it's going to go, who's the Secretary of Defense, he's going to be president of the state afterwards? Don't run a personal campaign. I don't think that's gonna happen. Therefore, you, Mr. Sutanovac, need to answer to the citizens what I asked. I'm very correct, but you're burning fire here because you don't have any answers to any questions. Then you feel bad when, as we say, we say, you get it on your nose, and then you bring this discussion down to the 'cupusion' in the Mosquitoes. This is not a "cupusionade" in Mrcajevci, this is a national parliament from which you are elected, as a representative of a very important portfolio, as far as I'm concerned, the most important, defence minister, and you will treat the MPs with respect. By the way, I'd have to remind you of you dear Tombs, like I do, there's a folk sentence there, so little, with the cooked cabbage and beer, I saw you doing it well, and I love it, there's nothing controversial, there, Mr. Minister, they say like this – you sing nice, you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21634	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21635	SPO MPs, within the framework of the ZES parliamentary group, will vote for a decision to send members of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence to the peace mission in Chad and the Central African Republic. There's more reason for that. I'll just single out some. This is, above all, the fulfillment of our country's international obligations, given that we are a member of the UN and that we have rights, but also obligations, one of which is very important, and participation in peacekeeping missions. Otherwise, at this point, 18 countries around the world are involved by UN members, and our members of the military and the Ministry of Defence are on three such missions. This is also a significant recognition of our country's reputation, the reputation of our army and the Ministry of Defense. Participation in this mission certainly also contributes to the process of integrating our military into international security processes, then strengthening and building partnership relations. It should always be recalled that we are in the Partnership for Peace, that our party, the SPO, is pushing for Serbia to become a NATO member and that these missions also contribute to it. What do we want this for? If we already want to respect Resolution 1244, which guarantees the integrity of our country, then we too must respect certain obligations, and the best and safest way for Serbian soldiers to return to the southern province, to the area of KIM, is to be more active in the Partnership for Peace and to enter NATO through these processes, because it is a guarantee and to reduce tension in the region, to build trust and restore our soldiers to the whole territory of Serbia. This may seem unusual, but Kosovo and Metohija are also being defended today in Chad and the Central African Republic. In any case, it is better that our soldiers be in the world on peacekeeping missions than that, as was the case in previous years, thanks to the politics of some parties that were then in government, foreign soldiers come to our territory. It won't happen again. Now the situation is different. Let's not act like we're making enemies out of our friends. The diplomatic skill is exactly the opposite, that we make friends from opponents, from those with whom we have misunderstandings. Let us not from Norway, a friendly country, create an enemy and for no reason or cause that country is suspected and accused in this way in this house. Let's not act on principle - well, I won't do it the way I want to. The law on the participation of professional members of our army in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad was adopted in 2004. He was also voted by the MPs of those parties who today oppose meeting the obligations of this law and sending our soldiers on peacekeeping missions, and all in principle, I will not do as I wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21636	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21637	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will read you Article 140 again. The constitution, which you commented yesterday about how you commented after my speech. I think you're trying to be justified in these two days, defending your views, but it seems to me that in certain situations you are crossing the line of correctness and respect for this Parliament, even though you are saying that you respect it and respect it. I'll give you an example - Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, refers to the Serbian Army, three members – 139, 140 and 141 – The use of the Serbian Army outside the borders: "Serbian Army can be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". Where did you recognize the police here? Why did you mention Mr. Jocic who's not here and can't say anything about it? I think that's one line of correctness you've crossed. I don't think it's right that you mentioned it at all without saying that that's what we've been talking about all day here, or all afternoon - February 17, 2008, that's the limit, that's the difference. Something very traumatic happened, something very serious about this country. Yes, police sent and participated in peacekeeping missions in Haiti and Liberia. You mentioned Haiti, I tell you more – and Liberia. These are UN missions, not NATO, and they didn't go within the framework, neither do I, any other states, but as Serbian police officers. They went away as Serbian police and as Serbian police officers. I don't think you should have cited that example. You mention the departures of some of our soldiers from a time when Mr. Kostunica was president of the state; Mr. Tadic was then military minister. The Democratic Party took part then in power, you know very well, was in power, the federal government, etc. She was involved in all of it. After all, formal participation, to return to the topic, in UN peacekeeping missions, which we are talking about here all the time, does not violate the position of military neutrality, we do not say that, but violates if our army, members of our army, are going within the contingent of the NATO Pact Member State, specifically, Norway. That's why we're against this whole case. The State of Norway is a member of the NATO Pact. She recognised Kosovo's independence, as said here on March 28th 2008. She recognised Kosovo's independence. Maybe someone thinks she's a friendly country to us, but she admitted that 15% of our territory isn't ours. A colleague, Čotric, has the right to such an opinion, perhaps it is his friendly act of the state. I do not think that this is a friendly action towards the state of Serbia, with respect for all that the state of Norway has done and how it has helped Serbia in the previous period since 2000. Speaking of missions, it is mentioned that one mission in our territory, the UN, we have Resolution 1244, we have a Kumanian agreement, why don't we insist on those alleged friends, of which the High Representative, several days ago, Joseph Biden, U.S. Vice President, visited Serbia, implemented the Kumanovo Agreement and Resolution 1244? Why do we agree to something that isn't Resolution 1244? We agree to EULEX and thus help terrorists and criminals build another country in our territory. It is enough that the largest sponsor, the United States and NATO, is helping them, and NATO's pact is Norway. Why don't we ask our 1,000 soldiers and officers to come back and work there? There's a lot of things said here today. It's said -- that's not all Americans do, that's where they protect our people; they killed 20 Albanians in 2004. Not true, they did not kill 20 Albanians, but killed 20 terrorists and criminals, in self-defense, when they went after them, not defending the Serb people, Serbian churches or Serb monasteries. It's documented, it's very well known. They weren't defending the other non-Albanians who were attacked, we were all attacked there, not only by Serbs, but by other non-Albanian residents. I have to, too, do something about correctness, or incorrection. When you commented on your participation in the NATO Pact Parliamentary Assembly, following a speech by the president of the DSS Parliamentary Group, Mr Aligrudic, you probably thought of me and some journals. Well, I'm a member. With what right do you speak of how it works and what does the National Assembly and its committee do? You have no right to do that, when we're talking about correctness. But if you mention it, I'm proud of my participation there. You have MPs from the DS who are in that delegation, ask them how I perform there. You have people sitting next to you, who were with me at some of these events, ask them how the Cheku got through talking to me and how the Norwegian MPs treated me, if that's what we're talking about. He's got a witness, he's sitting next to you, ask him. There I am fighting for the interests of the Serbian state. It's the work of the MPs. And, I guess, for the affirmation of the Serbian state in the international context, a greater contribution can be made by parliamentary delegations, rather than by a few health workers in the Mission in Chad, so that you treat yourselves in such a way as to talk about participation in parliamentary delegations, among other things, and in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the Pact. If you speak as a Democrats, you are a member of the DS, you should know that the MPs of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, that's what it is called, and otherwise you know that there are members of the Partnership for Peace, I know you know that there are also 10 MPs of Russia with their delegation, as well as Serbia, with five MPs, the MPs of the NATO Pact are saying the next sentence. Check it out, you can probably get a stenogram or a record from the Parliament Assembly of Reykjavik, where Member States' MPs say - NATO is a criminal organisation, an imperialist, designed to enslave free peoples, etc. It's democracy. That is why the Parliamentary Assembly is and not one opinion must be represented, as neither here nor on any matter, must be a single position and one opinion represented. About Afghanistan and our participation, for example, and it's mentioned here today, whether we should go or not. Our position is -- nowhere, not one peacekeeping mission involving the member states of the NATO Pact, because they are led by them, even if the UN gives them, such as Afghanistan, the handling of a peace mission; our country and our soldiers have nothing to look for there. For Afghanistan, there's not enough reason to die there, that I shouldn't go, that's where I'll agree with you, there are much more important reasons. Today, in Afghanistan, according to official UN data, Members of Parliament, 93% of the total production and consumption of heroin in the world are being produced. The EU has three million heroin addicts, three million addicts, and the user has much more. Where, in addition, the great Russia, where we are, who are not members of the EU, Norway etc.? Seventy thousand NATO soldiers are there. Why aren't they responding? Did you know that 20 times the production of heroin has been increased since the arrival of 70,000 NATO soldiers in Afghanistan? When we talk about whether or not we should be a member of the NATO Pact, we should think about these things as well. Who manufactures the most, who sells the most produced heroin in Afghanistan? The Kosovo Albanian mafia, which is otherwise the fourth in the world according to UN data, and the first to sell heroin on the European market. I'll tell you one more thing, maybe some have forgotten, Afghanistan is the first country in the world to recognise an independent Kosovo. Of course, they're complementary to the economy. One makes heroin, the other sells heroin. Who? To us and to the Europeans. Who's providing that? I don't know. I know there's 70,000 NATO soldiers out there, they're the strongest security force there, the strongest security organization. The booming business has been 20 times increased in heroin production since NATO was there. Then we wonder what NATO protects and sponsors the creation of a Kosovo state on our territory and drills their tunnel through the Curse, that they function even faster, that they can use the sea for such a thing. They're drilling a tunnel through the Curse, they're done. It's an American firm. I don't see them here helping us with the corridors we're talking about and the high-speed tracks, etc. The NATO Pact is the only military alliance in the world. It contains 10% of the world's states, 90% is not in the NATO Pact. So if we're against it, we're actually on the side of the majority. Will we, watch this logic, enter the NATO Pact and then have our soldiers return to Kosovo? It's so naive, it's amazing to say. Let's look for what Resolution 1244 is. After all, and that will end, we are against precisely because we need to go within the contingent of the NATO Pact member states. I'll agree with you on one more thing. You've said more than once in public that no one's even calling us to NATO. I agree with that, we really don't get called to NATO. NATO does not want Serbia to join NATO, it wants to enter Serbia and behaves like that all the time. He wants Serbia to be a NATO statesman to control. This kind of policymaking is something that bothers us and hurts us. We should not in any way let us know that we agree to this strategy, the game, the behaviour and the plan they have with Serbia. Thank you. The president. Just sign in, Mr. Shutanovac, to give you my word. Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21638	I'm sorry, I made an effort today to change my tone, because your colleague said my tone didn't suit her, and to perform in another way. Today it is, I hope, acceptable, but I cannot accept, no matter how insulting it may be, that you, with your school supplies, can interpret the Constitution. It's just, that's the thing where there's... (DSS members earn, all voice. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21639	Mr. Minister, MPs can interpret the Constitution and, please, don't throw it away, I'll tell you the measures. So MPs can interpret the Constitution, truth be told, it takes legal calling and preparation for this interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21640	I apologize, if Parliament is given the opportunity to finally interpret the Constitution, next to the Constitutional Court, then I'm afraid something's wrong. You talked about some killing in Kosovo, I didn't say that. I didn't mention one. I don't know why you told me this, but you were talking about how you would never go to a peace operation with NATO, Norway, and you mentioned Afghanistan. What is a fact is that Norway is one of the earliest members, if not, even one of the founders of NATO. I will read again the 2006 decision, which states that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in its conclusion, has been confidential, that and that number since 31 August 2006, expressed its commitment and willingness to support the reference of the Sanitary Staff of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of the Republic of Serbia in an action to support peace in Afghanistan. This is 2006. Maybe there weren't 93% of the world's heroin production in Afghanistan at the time, there was 87%. At the time, you didn't mind participating in the peace operation, and Norway was in NATO and then. So the argument you're making here is not consistent with the policy you had three years ago. I don't understand why you don't say what the real problem is, because this thing that you're saying, so that you'll never work with any NATO country, is bringing your policy back into conflict, because that same Russia, which has a delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, has its peacemakers in Chad. It is incorrect that our peacemakers will be under the flag of Norway and it is incorrect that they will bear the markings of any other country; they will wear the four Ss we introduced on 15 May 2007, when I became Minister of Defence, the Army, or the Republic of Serbia. A moment ago, when I mentioned the diaries from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I didn't mean you. I don't know why you called. You always find yourself called when I resent or say something. I'm sorry if I offended you about your education, but it wasn't my idea. I'm a machine engineer. I would never interpret the Constitution. There is a Constitutional Court, there are people who are paid even more than you and me, who need to interpret it. On the subject of participation in the peace operations of the police, to remind you, I have expressed respect for Mr. Jocic more than I have for all of you, and I had no idea to disavow him in any way. It's just that I respect him more than all of you together, so don't be angry, that's true. When we worked together in the government, I had a relationship with him that was worthy of respect. And today I'm sorry it happened to him. But the fact is, that's when the police were sent to Liberia, according to the government's decision. Now I'm going to read you what countries in Liberia are. So we've got Liberia, too. In Liberia, among other countries, the United Kingdom, the United States, Norway, NATO, and the issue is that when you decide to participate in an operation with NATO countries, then it is acceptable, for your well-known reasons, and when you are against that decision, then you say that because of this peace operation, there are also countries from NATO. I just can't catch the consistency of your policy. So, is there the same archaic when you're in power and the opposition or not? That's what Serbian citizens want to hear. What is it that changes when you send peacemakers with the same team of countries? I can read them all, don't worry, but I say, there's France too, there's a large number of countries that are members of NATO. What is it that changes when a medical team goes, not the police? The police work of a peace operation is far more dangerous than medically. That's what you and I know. It's much more complicated, much more awkward, more people get killed in the operation itself than in the conflict. When civil society is built and police implement measures to build a democratic order, when more people die, then more police die. You didn't have a problem. That's the decision you made. It's simple, I accept criticism, but only one that's justified. I'm sorry if you think it's disrespect if I say now that what you're saying is not consistent. I'll change that, if I have to, another nice tuning to do, but I'm sorry, your politics is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21641	Mr. Aligrudic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21642	I'm not getting up. And getting up needs someone on the other side to earn it; I'm talking about you, Madam President. Article 104, in relation to Article 27, which represents certain obligations of yours, which you obviously do not respect. You reacted a little bit, interrupting the speaker, that is, the defence minister, warning him of one part of the presentation when he spoke about the professional preparation of MPs and the possibility of interpreting the Constitution. You reacted when you heard the marble from the O.R. and the disdain of those present for such an address, which is the second time in two days; it was yesterday, and today it is repeated. I don't think you've reacted properly. What you said, allegedly warning the defence minister and his exposure, is a shame, as did the defence minister. Your obligation as chairman and president of this House is to protect democracy in this House and the basic principles of parliamentary action. It's not the point of being a lawyer or not commenting on who gave a better or worse interpretation of the Constitution. This home consists of 250 national representatives. Neither the Constitution nor the law states what kind of professional arrangements are, and the freedom of presentation and interpretation of decisions made by this House, regardless of what their legal power is, whether it is the Constitution or other laws, is the right of every MP from being parliamentary, even to this day, and you must protect it. In doing so, you do not react to any further violation of this House's dignity by the defence minister, in his further presentation, which I will not remind you of now, precisely because I would not cause further controversy, which is unnecessary here, as you have not responded when the defence minister, is responsible for my presentation, held 85% of the time my right hand in my pocket, which does not work well in front of the cameras, nor in front of the MPs, nor then, and I will point that out to you, when in one conveyed meaning, by mentioning former Interior Minister Dragan Jocic, Mr Dragan Sutanovac said that he did not respect the MPs of the people. He said it in public here. Read Article 104. You, Madam President, are not acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you are violating this Rules of Procedure, not Mr. Sutanovac, because Mr. Sutanovac speaks as he thinks and how he was raised, but you are here to take care of the dignity of this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21643	If I were to respond, Mr. Aligrudić, in accordance with your instructions, I would now have to comment on your presentation, starting with the term'request', which you refer to Mr. Minister, the representative of the executive, and the way you address me. I try not to interfere with the content and efficiency of work through respect for the procedure, and at every moment I also assess that element of my behavior. I apologize to Mr. Sutanovac for interrupting him, and I didn't let him finish. That's where I was wrong. So the speaker should finish, including the ministers, and I said what I meant. The apostle has the right to freedom of speech, including the contents of every law, including the Constitution. It is understood that it is good for the MP to be prepared and that, in accordance with the contents he speaks of, he has a foothold in the law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, etc. So I said exactly what I wanted to say and I think that that way I did an intervention that's consistent with what you're talking about, and that you and I have a different style of speech and behavior, that's really natural. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21644	I'll do something that may not be common here, but I don't have a problem if Mr. Shormaz resents me for mentioning that he's not educated in the sense that he can't interpret the Constitution, I'm sorry. Here, I apologize from my heart, I really didn't want to offend you, nor did I have that idea. If I accidentally held my hand in my pocket, believe me, I stand before you all the time, someone else is sitting. I can't apologize to you because I respect Jocic more than I respect you. What's so controversial about that? It's just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21645	Mr. Shormaz, since you're calling her next time, if you'll allow us to continue, you'll get your word later. Before you came forward Miss Natasa Jovanovic, therefore, she has a word, so you're behind it. Please, the Rules of Procedure have regulated the assessment of who has the right to the replica to bring the chairman, evaluate and give his word. I estimate that we're clear and there's no reason for replication. You can, within the time left for your parliamentary group, get your word, but after Miss Natasha Jovanovic. Natasha, sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21646	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to give a more serious debate on this subject, which has intrigued the Serbian public, especially because Serbian citizens who watch the direct transfer of the National Assembly of Serbia's session, will not have to know anything about Chad or Darfur area, and in particular our Serbs in KIM, who probably do not have electricity at this time when we are discussing this topic and the Sanitary role of the Serbian Army in this Central African area. The theme has gone so far and I think, first of all, Mr. Sutanovac, that it would not be appropriate for the minister to address the MPs in such a way. You showed ignorance, as a former representative of the people and as an MP, first of all, when you told Cedomir Jovanovic to submit an amendment to a decision, and just now, when, since I know you and the way you address yourself when you have animosity towards a person, you humiliated your colleague, Shormaz, without me being his "wood lawyer". You need to know, Mr. Sutanovac, that every MP, regardless of their title, education, gender, age, has the right to pass a law that, hypothetically, if the National Assembly adopts it on the agenda day, it comes to the agenda. Then how can someone who has been transferred by the people to a part of his sovereignty, sovereign in this House, be governed by the law and not be interpreted by the Constitution? I have to get out of there. So, the process of development of parliamentary democracy, after 19 years, that you want to suspend in Serbia, doesn't contribute personally to you either. One NGO, an extremely Serbian organisation, said you wanted to introduce a military junta into Serbia and to suspend democratic processes, when you made a decision on the participation of our soldiers, who was later called off, in a maneuver, or in a Partnership for Peace operation in Georgia, and thus showed that you stuck your finger in the eye of the Russians. I will be corrected by colleagues who have been in Parliament for some year, such as counterpart Krasic, who is currently out of the Assembly, but I think both Mr Zoran Nikolic and Mr Aligrudic could contribute. Let's take the turn, from Mr Slobodan Unkovic, Aleksandar Bakocevic, Dragan Tomic, Predrag Markovic, Oliver Dulic, to Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, were these graduate lawyers by profession? If you do not know what I am saying, I must tell you that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of Parliament and the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Now, according to our rules of procedure, it is the most competent to interpret the Constitution of Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, who is a regular professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac, but you don't know it. Please prepare yourself as a representative of the executive government, as you forgot when you were an MP, when you came before the MPs. It offends me, for the simple reason that you brought a series of charges against Parliament. I can doubt that, apart from being a NATO lobbyist, you're a lobbyist for the degradation of the highest legislative body, because we're actually degraded. Who does that? Boris Tadic, as commander-in-chief, right? Now whatever you throw away, do not, you worshipers of the character and the work of Boris Tadic, allow me to interpret that he has taken over the role of executive and legislative authority and to do what He wills. [[No votes from the bench: No.]] It's probably how he paints his ministers to behave like that here. It can't. We must restore our reputation and dignity to the National Assembly and know what they do. When we talk about our role, which is why this comes before Parliament – it is clearly defined by the Constitution, not to repeat it now. Why is that? Just because the National Assembly is best able to assess whether the policy that the state is leading is good or not. We heard a number of arguments, but to come from what is it that the SRS, which, with the great arguments that we have and many of them brought by Mr Krasic, I will say and my colleague Alexic, prevents us from voting for this decision? First of all, in this explanation from Wikipedia, you took off, to bring us, as MPs, closer, where Chad is, how many inhabitants there are and what ethnic conflicts there are. You've left out climate conditions, so you should have said that I believe they are members of this mission, this team that will go by decision, obviously, capable of supporting such an climate. It's said to be a desert climate, a sub-Saharan, a very dry climate. I believe you wouldn't be able to cope with such an climate. It's so dry that greenery, fruit and vegetables don't have much; maybe something else would fit, so the population mostly feeds on meat, Bonardo says. Who's Mr. Bonardo? Mr. Bonardo is the UN representative who takes care of what happens to UN mission representatives who appear in Chad. He says, we didn't even want to argue, for the contingents that are coming, or the representatives of the countries that are participating in this so-called. The sector, such as the Serbian Army's Sanitary Team -- so far, there has been no situation that, God forbid, someone who is a representative of any state's Sanity Team is suffering, which does not mean that they don't have to. He says the hospitals where they work are isolated from the scene of the conflict, and that's becoming less and less controversial now. We wish everyone good health, professionally doing our job, but we do not agree, although we have the best words of praise for our medical, especially for military experts, especially with VMA Serbia, which is one of the most prestigious health institutions in the Balkans, who are doing their job well, that Serbia is sending them, even if that is what you have told us, under the flag, under Serbia's tricolour with four "S", so correctly said the Norwegian contingent, because Norway has explicitly shown its position when it comes to our country, our territorial integrity and sovereignty. Don't, Mr. Sutanovac, make a replacement for thesis for two days. I am a member of the CoE Parliamentary Assembly, Mr Zoran Krasic – NATO Parliamentary Assembly, just like Mr Shormaz, or other colleagues. Tell me, please, what makes you think that parliament, only when this comes to the agenda, deals with these issues? The crisis in Darfur is the CoE Parliamentary Assembly, if you knew it, discussed two years ago, right, Mr Aligrudić, when our delegation took part in it. We did not have amendments in the debate, as we took active participation, but not all of them, not Dragoljub Micunović, Milos Jevtic and Natasa Vučković, because they are not interested, because they are those who lead anti-Russian politics, together with all of you from the DS, and I am responsible for that. You are the one lobbying for NATO and you are the minister who trades in Kosovo and Metohija, I am responsible for telling you. In every way, not that you are given, that it is your grandfather's, but by your conduct, by your attitude, you give the green light to all those who have come around to condition us, to blackmail us, and to continue to give us conditions. Who dealt with the Russian-Georgian crisis and resolutions in the Council of Europe? Did you travel to the SE to submit amendments, or did members of a delegation who were patriotically oriented? No, that was Milos Aligrudic, along with us, Serbian radicals. Mr. Todorovic and I traveled the same day as he did, because we were asked by a parliamentary delegation, headed by Mr. Kosachev, but we also asked them to help us, and counterpart Donka Banovic, also, I apologize, when we needed and, now late, Lord Russell submitted those monstrous resolutions against Serbia, to kidnap KIM, which were the introduction to the arrival of the Eulex, against the law and against the constitution. Now let's go back to Chad and Darfur. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do you think it's some lame thing and that Serbia is there, as Sutanovac said, to strengthen its foreign policy capacity, so you called out in time for Joseph Broz, so you said that those who were the greatest fans of the character and the works of Joseph Broz, in time, are now the loudest critics. We were not worshipers of the characters and works of Joseph Broz. Under the regime of Josip Broz, due to its proper national policy and ideology of Serbian nationalism, Joseph Broz and his villains were killed by SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj, who now even admitted, the other day, when I was in Sarajevo, at a conference concerning security forces in the area of Southeast Europe, and some which are the creators of the Islamic Declaration. They admit it now, because when time passes, there goes the wheel of history, and you can see who, as it will only pass, I hope, for a few months, so Dr Vojislav Seselj will enter the door as president of our party and bearer of our electoral list. I'm not here to teach you democracy, I'm here to tell you strategically why the SRS doesn't agree with this. If you take it seriously, you have very high-quality and professional people within the Ministry of Defence, regardless of the people who have passed many stages of the country's defence. Some have managed to survive, especially in certain administrations. I know that because I recently travelled with these people to a seminar in Brussels, when we had to tell the NATO Pact what he did to us and why Serbia would not go to NATO, and that we had a resolution on military neutrality. You have to explain to the citizens of Serbia how it ever happened, when you're so smart, and you claim to be, in both Chad and Darfur. Who's been inducing this crisis, and since when has it been going on? That's not funny, that's exactly what friends of yours do, and that's the Americans and Biden you talked to about it with. Big deal, brag about how you're going to send the Serbian Army's Sanitation Group. The Americans are in Central Africa because of geostrategic policy, and we know it very well. A conference of Central African countries in Libya was scheduled to be held in January, where, among other things, it would be discussed; they also wanted Libya to get involved, precisely because of the fact that Mr. Gaddafi at the beginning of the crisis wanted to be a peacemaker. Because the question of Darfur, however, is the question of Sudan, as it should be, but not the Americans. As is the question of Chad their thing, because you yourself said, Mr. Sutanovac, that Chad gained independence in 1990 and was finally declared to be in 1996, when he chose his president. What's the matter with France like that now? Because of the French-American conflicts there. For what? I understand these people, they won't go under duress, but it's a matter of principle. They can't possibly go with the forces of a state that's extremely anti-Serbian and that runs a policy like that, like Norway. They will receive compensation and wages for it, half a year, are they doctors, is it another medical staff, and what will Serbia get by it? Why don't you think about that role of America that everywhere, like a gendarme, it mixes, absolutely everywhere on the globe of the Earth, wherever it happens? These tribal conflicts, which you have listed here, because the north of the country is mostly Muslim religions, and the south -- Christian, lasts for decades, more than a century, but it's not the point, Mr. Sutanovac, ladies and gentlemen MPs, but the point is that large oil sites in Chad began to exploit themselves and that Chad exports them in 2004. Do you think Americans go where there's nothing to grab? Not just that, but for other resources. Same case, same question with Sudan. You forgot to tell me where the real slaughter is going, as the Council of Europe has come from the scene of a monstrous report about what's going on in Darfur, that is, in Chad, because it has spread from one area to another, where people are killing each other in the most beastly way, and Americans are collecting a belt. They want to make their interests known and make China come true, because China, which is one of the world's leading forces, a friendly country towards Serbia, has always been and has been, invested a lot in oil fields, and in exploitation, and in other projects, both in Chad and Darfur, that is, in Sudan, which you do not exploit, because NATO is an ally and NATOlobist. That's the whole point. Then the question arises – what foreign policy is our country leading? Someone told you here, I think my colleague Jovanovic, that you can't run politics because you represent the Army. No, you represent executive power, and it's executive power that in one part creates politics. If you, Mr. Sutanovac, said in early March this year that it would strengthen our country's foreign policy capacity, what did you mean? Did you then dare tell Beyden that we had to seek UN membership again after the five-octobaric coup, and we are one of the United Nations founders states? Why didn't you tell him that America, the Western forces and its allies had armed the Croats and Muslims to their teeth and set out to break the Serbian national, cultural and ethnic space, to arm the Cypriot terrorists and separatists to their teeth and directly help them do what they did? What kind of politics and advocacy is that? You say there are certain scruples and animosities towards NATO. I followed your statements carefully, because I want to do this job seriously, especially because Parliament, above all, my party, has given me confidence to represent them in an international organisation like the Council of Europe. What do you mean -- yeah, Serbia will join NATO's pact and thus ensure that nothing further happens to it, the People recognized that NATO's pact, exactly, wants to whine and to further break up Serbia. They bombed us, and you're telling us how much a Polish hospital costs; you said, 50m euros, or it says here, was invested by the Norwegian government. Why didn't you mention that 30 billion marks, that's a minimum of estimated value, amounting to material damage to the senseless 78-day bombing of NATO's criminal alliance of our people? It wouldn't be the end, we'll endure it, we've endured much as Serbs, as a people, and we've risen from the ashes, but the lives of the people that the NATO-runs have killed, unfortunately, we can't go back. It is therefore important that Serbia, of course, cannot do so under the authority of Boris Tadic and DS, clearly defines where it is in the world and what foreign policy it leads, what we are looking for and who are our friends. You laughed yesterday and said this wasn't the Russian State Duma. When things like cases of human rights violations happen, the hunger strike, which was forced to work by Dr Vojislav Seselj, met the Russian Duma and the Foreign Ministry to react to the fact that a political court, which NATO, with the CIA, founded, ad hoc tribunal in The Hague, and you are proud to cooperate with him, killed a man who was not proven by any individual crime, who was there because of his idea and his ideology. What is the ideology of Vojislav Seselj and the SRS? What are we against this for? We are for a peaceful alliance with all those in the world who want good Serbia, but Norway does not want Serbia well. The fact that there is a Norwegian house in Gornji Milanovac, close to my Kragujevac, is that you mentioned what happened in the earlier period, you know, and other once friendly countries have forgotten that. Who are our friends today, and who can we talk to and ask for help? It is one of the ones that caused the crisis by America and brought Resolution 1778 of the Security Council, September 25, 2007, on the deployment of a UN peacekeeping mission. I have to remind you, and that's what I'm going to end up with, when you're already on the UN mission, so-called. With blue helmets, why don't you mention, then, Mr Sutanovac, that the Republika Srpska Krajina was surrounded by the continent, or the westernmost Serbian republic, in which over half a million of our countrymen lived, which the Ustasha villains expelled in the actions of Flash and Storm? Didn't the Serb republic under the UN's patronage have its own president, its own parliament, its own government, whose representative is now in exile, and SRS MPs, Mr Milorad Buha? Do you think that these people, one of the poorest in the world, are too happy to be from 200 different tribes, regardless of their creeds and whether these are from the north or those from the south, in Chad or Darfur, because the UN forces are coming? No, I don't. They have fought so many years for their independence, but they have no independence and will not have it as long as it is such a policy of America. There's something else I need to tell you, given that you mentioned in the context and Mr. Krasic's speech. Mr. Zoran Krasic is a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, just like his deputy, counterpart Vukovic. They participate in the 'routro' seminars and other seminars organised by the NATO Pact, but not to be courted, not to speak anything that has no basis, but what Dmitri Rogozin says, as one of the people of Putin and Medvedev, whom you said you met yesterday and who is a friend of the Serbian people, and above all of the SRS, we tell them. You can't build a relationship of trust. We are from a few years ago in the Partnership for Peace, but we cannot trust those who take away our land, who killed our people, who went there, and continue to occupy and destroy Serbia completely. Thank you for your attention, and I apologize to my colleagues, I may have spent a little bit more time. He will continue his colleagues, Alexic and Krasic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21648	Mrs. Donka, you should have sat here and seen the sound of the tone. I guess I'm the only one in this room who's been listening very carefully to what you've been saying. I cannot allow you to grant qualifications for me to trade in Kosovo. I don't know what kind of initiative to hurt the Rules of Procedure is going on here, but it's a big insult to me. If you don't notice it, don't notice the MPs, I understand you, you're not listening to what your colleague is saying. It's in the record, and I'm asking you to treat me adequately. I am here a representative of the executive government and in no way have I offended Mrs. Jovanovic or anyone. It is a great insult for me to be told that I trade in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21649	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21650	I'll be shorter. I thought I'd say it through a replica, but, well, this way, too. Mr. Minister, I didn't ask you for an apology, and I don't feel offended. It's your business that you value, and who you don't appreciate, and how much I value you as Dragan Sutanovac, or me as Dragan Shormaz; that doesn't matter at all. It is important how you treat the institution of the People's Parliament and the National Assembly and how the MP treats you, as a minister. I don't think I've offended you for one moment or for one word of my own. Otherwise, I didn't interpret the Constitution, I read it. I read it, although I have the right to interpret it. The fact that you're mixing education and the degree of professional training is, again, your business. You know my degree of expertise, which is the secret? That's what it says on the Internet, and it can read the whole world, the middle expert prepares it. That doesn't say anything about my education. Otherwise, in the same NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am fighting for the views of the Serbian state in a much more fluent English language, not by reading, but by showing you the English language here. That I can confirm to you the DS MPs who are going there with me. It's about education. Education is much more than professional training, much wider than professional training. You, for example, voted to be Prime Minister, a middle professional man, Mr. Zivkovic. You voted for him to be Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. That's not the only example. In Europe, you have as many examples as you want, as well as the MPs and ministers in the government, you have examples of elected presidents, the Prime Minister with medium expertise. Many find a grudge against this representative home, this National Assembly, various objections. I think the biggest regret is that I have a grudge against the assembly of this parliament and my parliamentary group because there are no authentic Serbian peasants to the National Assembly, none. This is a representative home. This isn't the Academy of Science. It's something else entirely. We were defending you. You weren't there. That is why you are obliged to apologize, not to me, but to the entire National Assembly. We have defended you from the attack of the Chief of Staff, Mr. Ponos, who has told you that you are unprofessional, incompetent and that you do not know what you are talking about at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee. I defended you, not as Dragan Sutanovac, but as an institution of Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He passed by as a barefoot in that seat of Anointed, and ye did not come; ye were called, ye said that ye were busy. Re-replace thesis. I repeat, Mr. Minister, on February 17, 2008, let go of who went and what decisions were made before that. After all, again, the states you've read for a peace mission in Liberia or Haiti, they're UN peacekeeping missions. There, we did not go into the contingent of a NATO member state, but as Serbian police officers, or as Serb soldiers, not in the continent of Norway, the NATO Member State, which makes Kosovo a state. That's our opinion, our position, we take it out where we have the right under the Constitution. If you don't understand what I'm saying, I should say again, that's where we went as Serbian police officers. Why were you talking about the Serbian flag? I haven't talked for a moment about not going under Serbian markings, not once. We will go to the Norwegian contingent, the Member States of the NATO Pact. Do I need to repeat that a million times? How many times do I have to do that again? I repeat once again, and thus I end up, NATO does not want Serbia in its framework, NATO wants to enter Serbia. He does not want Serbia to enter the NATO Pact, he wants to enter Serbia and make Serbia a state, the ambassador says so, and whether regionalisation, and the status of Vojvodina, and Kosovo, and it is known what it is, the state it will control. You can see that every day. Whoever doesn't see it doesn't want to see it, or there's a reason why he doesn't want to see it. That's a fact. If you're already talking about the will of the people, support our initiative. Let's go to the referendum. If you don't want an emergency parliamentary election, let's go to the referendum. Let's see and ask the citizens of Serbia if they want Serbia to be a NATO pact member. Let's ask them that question and go to a referendum, because you're calling on the will of the citizens, and let's see what kind of answer you'll get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21651	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21652	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, in the public of Serbia, there is usually no way to hear stories that have been released from the agenda when it comes to sending a peacekeeping mission of our defence ministry and the Serbian Army under the auspices of the UN, and above all, there are demagogue stories, day-to-day political topics, and citizens cannot see what is important to Serbia if it participates in such missions. I would remind MPs and the public of a news release since 20 September 2006, which said -- former Defence Minister Zoran Stankovic, I have agreed with Norwegian Defence Minister Ana Greto Sturm to participate Serbia's military sanity in the mission in Afghanistan. Serbian doctors, as part of the Norwegian contingent of peace forces, etc., would participate in this mission. Also, in Burundi, three military observers, 2004 to 2005. Back then, the government wasn't in this system, it was two governments ago. There are clear parties that reject any military co-operation with other countries, but it is strange that those parties that are now criticising such co-operation are criticising it only because they are not in power. They also criticise that there is no choice because they are not in power, and in 2006 it was important for Serbia to be stable. I think it is now most important for Serbia to be stable and it is most important to emerge from the current economic crisis. As for sending the UN-led mission to Chad, it will contribute to Serbia's foreign policy. So we are developing partnership relations with developed countries of the world. I will remind you, 20 countries are participating in this mission, including Russia, the United States, France, Austria. I don't see why it's a problem for Serbia to be around these countries. As for bilateral co-operation, it certainly contributes to bilateral co-operation with Norway and what the surrounding countries, which have not developed their military technology enough, do not have enough equipment, whenever they can, in the context of sending missions under the auspices of the UN and other regional organisations. It's that when they send their mission, they get equipment they don't own in their army and then they keep that equipment, which they can use later. This is another way in which countries that understood it perfected their military equipment. It is certain that Romania, which has farthest received equipment based on the participation of its soldiers in peacekeeping missions, has gone there. As far as this particular mission is concerned, our army has been donated to a million-dollar hospital, and a series of courses and training. I will remind you that we have been in isolation for a long time and that it is necessary for our officers to gain insight into new technologies, to cooperate with military experts from other developed countries. I especially think that the considerable trust that has been given to our doctors in this way is significant. They were invited to participate in this mission and to treat some officers and soldiers from far more developed countries, which is a special honor and recognition for our doctors. These are non-combating actions. They're not that dangerous. I wouldn't agree with any colleagues, and I wouldn't give up Chad or any other state, because it's not right to talk about any tribes. I'm sure we don't like it when someone talks so bad about us, so I don't think there's any reason why we should talk about them like that. The invaluable experience our doctors experience in these actions is, too, some war surgery, some medical treatment on the ground, in these special field conditions, which cannot be acquired under peaceful conditions and conditions that are not crisis-free. Serbia certainly wants to be a regional leader, wants to co-operate with other countries of the region. If we want to be a regional leader, and we want to be that in a political sense, in an economic sense, in a military sense, in that case, we need to co-operate with all developed, democratic countries, we need to respect the UN Charter and we need to engage voluntarily, as much as we can, in missions under the auspices of the UN, such as this. As for the regional leadership itself, Serbia shows every day that it grows up as a regional leader. It is certain that energy security is also a kind of security, and Serbia has shown past winter, when we had a gas crisis, to the intervention of Serbian President Boris Tadic, to understand what energy security is and it was certainly one of the first news in all international stations. We have shown that we understand this problem, and by sending this mission we show that we are part of the UN, that we are part of the world and that we want to participate in those peace-making missions that they aim to preserve peace. The DS parliamentary group will vote for this decision and I would like to thank the ministry once again for the presentation so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21653	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, you've made some comments. Above you, above all of us stands the great coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. On that large coat of arms is a two-headed white eagle, on its chest is a shield with a cross and four glasses. The cross with four glasses is a symbol worn by members of the Serbian Army. They don't wear a sign with four "S", they can wear a sign with four "S" eventually, but that's, I want to point out again, a cross with four glasses. To return to the topic – Proposal for a decision on the participation of professional members of the Sanitary Service of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army as part of the Norwegian contingent in the UN Peace Mission in the Republic of Chad, as outlined in the light of this decision. Under point 1. The motion for a decision, it is said, is the basis for an examination of the arrangements for the invitation of the Secretary of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, Mrs Errichsen, therefore, not of the UN, to Mr Sutanovac, that professional members of the Sanitary Service of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia are engaged as part of the Norwegian contingent in the UN mission in Chad. The same point of the motion for a decision states that the Kingdom of Norway is constantly showing great understanding of the situation in the Republic of Serbia. "So far, through donations in various social sectors, she has invested more than 50m euros. Bilateral military co-operation with the Kingdom of Norway is one of the most developed and never politically conditioned.' In the same part of the proposal for your decision, it is said that this engagement is only part of a comprehensive strategic military co-operation with the Kingdom of Norway and that it will benefit our staff from a number of experiences that will benefit the whole, watch out for this, the defence system, but also the health system of the Republic of Serbia. First, it is a clear lie that Norway is constantly showing great understanding of the situation in the Republic of Serbia, as stated in the proposal for your decision. Norway took part in NATO's aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The material damage done to our country at that time was 30 billion German marks. The earth was bombed with poor uranium. In an interview provided by Spanish pilot Adolfo Luis de la Os, who flew to the F-18 "superhornet", he says the NATO alliance used both biological and chemical weapons. These half a million dollars that you've allocated to send this mission, you could've given to domestic experts who've developed a Zeolite-based drug, a volcanic mineral that can absorb up to 80% of the poor uranium. Poored uranium is simply called diplitid yurenium (depleted uranium), otherwise, it is a substance, i.e. An element without gamma radiation, with alpha and beta radiation, which is the most devastating for humans. So, you could spend it on Zeolith, to put to sleep areas that were bombed in the aggression of the NATO Pact, among other things, and in the vicinity of Vranj. I will tell you that our experts, domestic experts, have made these projects, but that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not want to allocate money for it. They said there was no money. Furthermore, as quoted by AFP, 28. Three. In 2008, Norway recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. The country's foreign ministry then said it hopes to respect minority rights in Kosovo and Metohija, referring to the remaining Serbs living in the ghettos. So, just as Hitler put the Jews in the ghetto, so does NATO with the Serbs at KIM. Also on February 20, 2008, the head of Norwegian diplomacy, Stere, announced that the country would recognise the country's independence of the southern Serbian province. So, the plan existed a long time ago. How are the Norwegian soldiers and the Norwegian army you're celebrating here? Sunday Telegraph, February 26th 2004, in a text entitled "Prepared a New Screenplay for Kosovo", said: "Norway is in shock these days. A video recording of the savagery of its soldiers in Kosovo was broadcast on TV there. It has been recorded soldiers killing dogs in a village whose name is not indicated. You can see, for example, the dog standing in front of his backyard, waving his tail, and then the Norwegian soldiers cold-bloodedly killing him from a rifle and then laughing like you are now, Mr. Sutanovac. "In particular, the daily killings of Serbs in KIM, the media in this country are almost not reporting, probably because there are no video records." As the media transferred, on 11 March 2009, Norwegian police arrested a Serb suspect for alleged crimes in KIM. The name of the man arrested in town, according to Hanger, was not published on that occasion. Norwegian police say the arrested Serb allegedly expelled Albanians from their homes, but was not charged with "direct violence". NATO and the drug-state Kosovo immediately requested that the Serb be extradited. This is your Norway. The question arises, how can Boris Tadic's regime, in the proposal for a decision to refer members of the Serbian Army to Chad as part of the Norwegian contingent, argue that Norway is constantly providing support to Serbia and thus knowingly deceives citizens? Norway participated, I underline once again, in NATO's monstrous aggression against the SRJ pact, among the first to recognise KIM's independence, it arrests and keeps innocent Serbs in prisons. Mr. Sutanovac, you called on Michael Pupin yesterday. It's tragic. You were talking about how he worked in America, how he made his contribution to America. You could have followed what Michaela Pupin wrote in American magazines. In US Independent, Mihajlo Pupin, 1914, for the assassination of Franc Ferdinand, supports Gabriel Principe and points out that Bosnia and Herzegovina are two jewels in the Serbian crown. So he explicitly views BiH's territory as Serbian territory. In the American "Srbobran", for the release of KiM, Mihajlo Idvorski Pupin, one of the largest physics laboratories in Colombia University bears the name, where seven Nobels were educated, says: "This is the brightest day in the history of every Serb. The enemy is defeated, and Kosovo is avenged. The bright Serbian weapon has regained its glow. "Can you say something like that, Mr. Sutanovac? What about the NATO Department of Defense office? How many square meters of space has been allocated to the use of NATO organization in the rooms of the Ministry of Defence and which rooms have been given to the use of NATO's office? In 2008, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the framework of a resolution on the preservation of the sovereignty of the state, brought a declaration of military neutrality. How are we militaryly neutral when we have a NATO office at the Department of Defense? Our expert Ivan Ninic asked these questions during 2008, among other things, and at what time period has NATO been assigned to use the space located in its defence ministry? Has the Ministry of Defence requested and obtained the consent of the Department of Property of the Republic of Serbia and all in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia? Is the use of equipment owned by the Ministry of Defence in addition to the NATO organisation's space? Is the use of inventory held by the Ministry of Defence in addition to space, NATO? Has the Ministry of Defence requested and obtained the consent of the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate and all in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia? Your ministry, the Ministry of Defence, on May 26th brought a solution to the SRS's number 650/2/08, which was submitted by Ivan Ninic, our researcher, rejected, with the reason that too many information was sought. Meanwhile, an appeal has been filed for the defence ministry's solution, an appeal procedure before the Commissioner is under way, the trustee's decision is expected. So, you've been hiding this, like you've been hiding the SOFA contract for a year. You said he was with the Foreign Ministry, that's what you were saying. not you, the representatives of the Ministry of Defence sent our representatives to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to ultimately reject our request. If you have already passed a law that provides insight into information of public importance, why don't you respect that law yourself? How do you expect ordinary citizens to respect the law if you don't respect it? You have to respect him, as Ministry, first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21655	I'd like to thank you for saying, "Cymesha Dragomir has a word." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21656	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have launched many topics during this afternoon. We've also heard about a referendum on joining NATO, we've heard a lot about all this, but at least we've talked about doctors and health workers who are supposed to go on that mission to Chad and the Central African Republic. I think the sanity units have their place in this continent of Norwegian forces and that our forces, under our flag, with our markings and our uniform, will be worthy of representing the Republic of Serbia. The Serb soldier never gave in to trouble, before the weather, did not consider whether his involvement would cause the family to suffer, or if a bomber would come, so he could blow up his loved ones, or do some great harm. He stepped bravely, he was in fights. The Serbian military doctor has always been in the hands of the Serbian people, and I think this time, the Serbian military doctor, Serbian medics and Serbian personnel in that remote country, the unhappy, as we are partly unhappy, will show their importance and do what is best. It's not just the treatment of officers and the frames that matter. It is significant that our healthcare workers will also treat the people of these distant lands. You know, saving someone's life, that's enough for a lifetime. How many times we talked about the VMA, about the experts who got out of that science and health facility. We haven't thought about it, we haven't talked about their salaries, or whether they've confessed from the University of Belgrade, whether their academic diplomas are like that, Mr. Minister, and for that I thank you. Now I'm speaking as a doctor and a backup military officer of the Sanitary Service. I am very glad that my colleagues will be on this sacred task in these distant lands. We're not on UN missions for the first time. I can only say that, for example, our Major General Slavko Jovic, from 1988 to 1990, was the commander of the peacekeeping forces on the Iran-Irak separation line after the Iraqi-Iranian war, and in 1963 he was in Sinai. We were never afraid to go and help, within various missions, all the nations that needed help at that time. I think it's a good thing that Madam Secretary of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, Mrs. Errichsen, gave us a hand of friendship and invited us to participate in the composition of the Norwegian contingent on these missions and I think that we will be an example of not isolation, but of our involvement in all the tasks that the Sanitation Service should provide. Then he won't call us just in these remote areas, but he might call us when there's an earthquake, like he was in Italy recently, so we offered our help to go there, and as sanitizers, and as experts. So they'll invite us to some other missions, maybe some scientific missions, maybe some friendly visits, exchanges of experiences, etc. I repeat, the ZES Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of sending our Sanitation Forces within the Norwegian battalion to Chad and the Central African Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21657	Mr. Cimesha, thank you. Mr. Minister, please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21658	Just for a little while. I would like to thank you for the presentation and to tell Dr Cimesha that, despite many swearing in VMA and that the institution treats a large number of Serbian citizens and a large number of politicians, no one has started reforming so far, based on which they would finally receive the university titles recognised in our society and that teachers with VMA are recognised by our university. We have managed to accredit our military medical academy, that, finally, these people are in status, as well as the Military Academy, and we are also building a military university, with the desire to develop a further defence system. Otherwise, when we mentioned Iraq, Iran, or the peace mission that was in that period, General Peric was then a young officer, he was a participant under General Jovic's command, if I'm not mistaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21659	I thank you, Mr. Minister, especially for the information relating to the status of such a renowned health institution and for your personal contribution to all this. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21660	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I will make a personal contribution to make you understand today's topic better. I cannot read the Constitution, since I am the only MP who is forbidden to read the Constitution, because then I get warnings, and I am no longer able to be a great donor of the DS, through the Committee on Administrative Affairs. Anyway, let's get back to this topic. Let's see what's the essence of this operation called "the motion for a decision". Since there are young people here from the DS who probably haven't had a chance to read a lot of books, I'm telling them to read more books, and the less they look at the Internet. For what? You see, in America there used to be a division between Democrats and Republicans, except for their distinctive emblems, as a means of distinction, there were some animals like emblems, based on politics, and at the time some Republicans were isolationists and Democrats were internationalists. That division hasn't been valid for a long time. After Reagan, that division no longer drinks water, not even in America. What division of them now is valid? Those who support the sale of weapons, and those who want to dominate the world by controlling all oil sources. Then it can be unmistakably guessed that Iraq fell because of oil, and Clinton was much more active for the sale of weapons. On the other hand, the Armsmen are currently running like a lobby. Mrs. Djukic, I would ask you to accept only knowledge, as a hypothetical question, not specifically. This country, since we're followers, used to be a big arms manufacturer, was exporting weapons. A few years ago, after an imaginary affair, and that arms export was put under control. We haven't had any luck with the SDPR, some executives have been arrested, and I'm waiting for these guys to be arrested now. For what? There's a lot of reasons; you know how much drug trafficking is in the world, count on a little less than that to earn from illegal arms trafficking. To know that a new job is developing - the export of soldiers. For your knowledge, in Iraq, all camps, camps, where American soldiers are stationed, provide private security. The Americans have developed a whole system of private companies close to the military industry and the U.S. defense forces. They are often referred to as counselors. They used to be in Croatia in 1995, so they advised on how to implement "Storm" and "Blash". There's a lot of them in Iraq. Even some of our officers, generals, retired though, I can't say they were active, offering their services. You know what the cost of hiring these "dogs of war" is. Is there something like private business behind this decision? We don't know. We just read the explanation, saw some tribes. We saw from the explanation that, firstly, the European Union was present there, so now the UN is coming. When the EU arrived, it was under UN and UN resolution. Something like this is related to our space. A lot of things happen by some law. You interrupted Mr. Shormaz, not you, but the discussion stopped there, but he provided very accurate and precise information, which NATO does not hide, data not hidden by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. A Canadian MP asks NATO a question, and that military part – what has $17 billion been spent on BiH territory since 1996, because what was done there by the Dayton Agreement is an idiot state? They admit it. The fact is that most drugs are produced in Afghanistan, the fact is that the large drug warehouse is KIM territory and the fact is that the command of the South Wing NATO Pact is located in Naples and Naples is being held by the mafia. Legislability says -- where NATO is, there's crime. Why would we send doctors to study crime? When you talk about General Jovic, he was on behalf of JNA and SFRY, not Officer JNA in the form of an easy Canadian cavalry brigade, for example. I guess you can see there's a difference. You may not notice that difference, but there is, above all, a difference in respect of sovereignty, the sovereignty of a state. But about that one. The fact that Norway has recognised an independent Kosovo. Didn't you guys have a bit of a break-up? Who recognised Kosovo as an independent state? All our friends. That's what you say when you go home to your house. Our biggest friends are the United States, a sign of friendship – they bombed us for 78 days, kidnapped Kosovo, built the largest military base. They relocated the Department of Defense. You heard, for a year and a half, there are no answers to any questions. In a transparent DS government, we can't get answers to questions. Symbolics – Marshallate sold for a new embassy. Changed even the land. Why? They know what they were shooting at Marshall, there's some communications systems in the former SFRY, but they've put everything on the line, everything's in their hands. I don't know who's going to give us guarantees that behind these missions the peace of our representatives of the armed forces and the Ministry of Defense, dear and close republics and states that have recognised independent Kosovo, does not hide, perhaps, the sale of weapons? Isn't there, perhaps, a private arrangement behind these missions, some callin' surgeons, some sanity crews? Who gets the money, maybe someone trades people? We've had opportunities to read, in some of our newspapers, how some people from former SFRY, who are engaged, some private firm, are exported from here, to seduce some order, and they're not members of the Foreign Legion. Guns, military, that's a hell of a business. Is there, perhaps, behind this big business, or is that big business hiding the story of international reputation? Where did you find Norway, which recognised an independent Kosovo? Why didn't you ask Russia, if it was there, for our seven doctors to be part of Russia's armed forces? At least symbolically, a similar language. However, we do not know how these languages of Norway will prevail. Norwegians have two languages, very similar, but good. During this debate, it was heard, let me use the words "great untrue", not to use something more appropriate to our language. No one can be an EU member unless he has previously become a member of the NATO Pact. The condition of all conditions for joining the EU is membership in the NATO Pact. When you go and talk to NATO representatives, they clearly say, a decision was made in 2007 not to make Serbia a NATO pact member. You're howling for nothing, like the rain around Kragujevac. They won't let us. Why? There is a great dissatisfaction between the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the NATO Pact. We sued 10 NATO member states that bombed us. I don't want to remind you now what the International Court of Justice's decision was about jurisdiction. It all fell into the water. Let me remind you of another fact. A few months ago, this Hashim Thaci, he crouched a little, so he said -- we expect Spain to recognise an independent Kosovo. The first jumped graduate physicist Javier Solana, as EU foreign policy chief, since they have no foreign policy minister, and said, "Don't sleep on that ear, Spain will never recognise an independent Kosovo." You see, that's a double archaic. That Javier Solana is trampling on other EU member states, asking them to recognise an independent Kosovo, but he does not think about it when it comes to his country. He respects Spain, respects the sovereignty of Spain, knows where it came from, knows who sent it to the EU. 20 years ago, in Spain, he was the biggest enemy of the NATO Pact, right now Javier Solana, but he did not mind signing a decision on the bombing in 1999, although there was no Security Council decision, and there were even major disputes within the NATO Pact itself. The NATO Pact says -- thank BiH, if there hadn't been an armed conflict in 1992, NATO would have disappeared. He's not designed for something else, he's designed for a cold war. The Cold War was interrupted in 1989. That's true. Recognize who initiated the war on the territory of the former SFRY. Who initiated the break-up of the former SFRY? NATO Pact. The country that is a NATO pact member must follow NATO's policy. Of course Norway is a coward's egg, which was planted for someone to fly. If you of the DS want to be so human to you, dear and favorite tribe of Zagawa, send your doctors through the NGO of Bernard Kušner "Doctors Without Borders". Send them through an international NGO, why are you banging the seal of Serbia with four "S"s, with four glasses? What do you accept that way? Are you aware of what you accept? You're taking one big prank. The world has changed, people. We must take care of our interests. Until a few months ago, you looked with bitterness at these ambassadors of states who have recognised an independent Kosovo. To remind you, you have been expelled, expelled, asked to be removed, as undesirable persons, ambassadors of Macedonia and Montenegro. You know they did it on the orders of the Americans, and even what the Norwegians are doing, they're doing it on the orders of the Americans. It's not that 99.9% of Serbia knows all this well, you're the only one who's acting. What are you playing at? They'll ask you at home, when you go, sister, brother, father, how dare you raise your hand? Do you want to kill Milic Rakic again? Do you want to break up the bridge in Barbarian again? We've barely restored it, and you're taking something down next time. Why? Because nobody's sure it's a private combination. Gun exports, ammunition exports, military exports, military exports, war dogs, so that's the best job today. The U.S. military industry and American security can't do without private agencies. Where the state cannot go, it releases private agencies, retired CIA colonels, retired generals, lobbying in all places to secure the strategic position of the United States, in the first place, with energy. Probably, in a few years, and it will be publicly announced that water is strategic interest number one. I don't know how you could find some of the interests of the Republic of Serbia in this. I have to distract you, the books are published, you just need to show a little interest, will, can be found in the National Library of Serbia. Go over there, it doesn't bite. If you come across a hair in a book, take a book and read it, honor the book. There are some books that explain how we had the Secretary of Defense and how we had the Chiefs of Staff. I'm not talking about what's been going on for the last eight or nine years, let's get this straight. I'm talking about what happened when the Army didn't have that so-called. Civilian control. One Chief of General Staff later served as defence minister at the same time as a double agent. He worked for both Soviet and American sides. He showed great ability to sell and buy weapons. I didn't say a name, not a year, I didn't say anything that could identify that pensioner. But, you know, when it's some time, when some time distance is made, then history works, so some data has to come out and find out. Who can guarantee you this isn't a private business? I don't see any guarantees. This decision is in stark contrast with the Constitution, the law and the declared policy of Boris Tadic. His policy is -- I will not recognise Kosovo's independence, I will never accept independent Kosovo, I am angry at all those who have recognised Kosovo's independence. Norway is one of the first to admit it. We've got unfinished relations with the NATO Pact. We won't be members of the NATO Pact. We're looking for air and space to live in a friend's house. I don't know who got you into this kind of decision-making thing, do I? Is that a warrant? Is that an order? I know that there are different political factions in the DS, different views of certain phenomena and events. I know it's very active, even, in ideological terms, and the leader of this new DS is this "resilient" part. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Thank you. I didn't mean you. I always think about you when we talk about animal welfare, now I'm talking about the Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21661	Mr Krasic, please take care of the way you speak and treat yourself, i.e. direct and indirect comments to the MPs. It's inappropriate and it's really for measure. You're angry that I'm punishing you, but you're challenging the chairman to impose penalties, measures and sanctions on you. I'm really warning you right now and take this as a serious warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21662	Mrs. Djukic, you haven't paid attention. He threw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21663	Mr. Krasic, if anyone throws in this room, you know who does it most often.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21664	Yeah?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21665	You.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21666	I know, but he just threw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21667	Please, but whatever. The way you've commented, and if there's been a throw, it's really inappropriate, it insults the dignity of the MPs and this home. Since you advise everyone that when they go home, they ask the locals what they think about behavior, ask your children what they think about your behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21668	Mrs. Djukic, my children are normal. There's no problem. Don't worry about my kids. She's very nice to comment on everything that's going on. You see, I think from the point of view of security it's a more important location. Mr. Sutanovac, maybe I'm wrong in the name, don't take my name for evil, is it the real name of Cepotina, Cepotina, Chepotina, I don't know. It's probably a "Cepotin." Who can't finish the work there, and it's some object that's very important to our army? Maybe I got the wrong name, don't take it from me, 'cause I got the message on the phone. You know, you can't see Latina - c, c in the phone. You probably know what this is about, I don't know. Finally, to explain just one more thing – membership in the UN gives rights and gives obligations. But believe it or not, given the long period of time since the UN Charter was adopted, it is probably the most important document guaranteeing state sovereignty. The United Nations is a complex international organisation, where members often transfer some of their original powers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The UN Charter refers to the Security Council's obligations to establish and preserve world peace. Exceptionally, if some measures cannot deliver results, above all, it is thought of political measures, there is the possibility of accessing military engagement. It must be kept in mind that everyone has to be careful, very careful. We do not have that international obligation directly, as states are called on to first demonstrate their opportunities to participate in some peace operations. So there's a commitment, it's general. The obligation is not an absolute executive or obligation that cannot be avoided; this obligation can be avoided, taking into account many of the circumstances that are related to our country. When it comes to this international obligation, be careful. Once, the former SFRY was able to finance and participate in peacekeeping operations, now Serbia is not in that capacity, simply, unable to engage seven, ten, or 24 members of a sanity abroad. It is especially offensive for them to be part of another armed force. Just so you know, in international relations, the state is a force. All international documents speak of the state as a force. This kind of involvement of an army of eight and a few million inhabitants within units of a state with four and a half million inhabitants is offensive from the point of view of the international relations and position of this state, but it's not offensive if we were to be part of the Russian army, because then the situation is completely different, unlike those Americans from Dayton, who teach us how to eat snakes and survive, so we had to go through that phase, that opening phase. Well, yes, Mr. Shormaz, that's how it was, survival, teaching us how to survive; keeping an eye on what our army is in, keeping track of what you're doing. It is well known to me that you cannot avoid this decision, but consider how much this decision is in the interest of this country and this people. So far, you've made a number of decisions that you've determined after a few months that are not good. We have an assignment to warn you in time. We are not NATO fanatics, as we are not Euro-fanatics either, but you must understand that in the European Parliament, in addition to parties supporting the European integration and enlargement of the European Union, there is also a strong group of MPs who are against the EU. Be aware of the fact that in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly there are both MPs and MP groups and representatives of some of the states that are members of the NATO Pact, who are constantly potentiating what is with Article 5. A treaty on the establishment of a NATO pact, as it is respected. Well, is it possible that they, as founding states, or members of the NATO Pact, have some reservations according to the NATO Pact, and we who are only in this "single society" Partnership for Peace have so many post-fanatisms in Serbia! If you are aware that the people are against this, what is your policy based on? I suppose every policy is run for the interests of the citizens, not against the interests of the citizens? You in this decision will demonstrate precisely that the people, the citizens, are going one way, and the Democratic Party, as the leader of this policy, is going the other way. Where's our interest? Take these criticisms seriously. Think about not making a mistake like last year. All year round, you've been avoiding the point of the Eulex agenda, KiM, and in the end it turns out that you've called on Eulex, that you've called on six imaginary principles that no one recognizes or respects and unconsciously, some perhaps consciously, have accepted the concept of Marty Ahtisaari on supervised independence, something that even legal theory or politics doesn't know what it means. Kim slips slowly, because you didn't warn everyone. It had to come out of this building a unique warning and a unique identification of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as when we passed those resolutions on neutrality and the protection of vital interests in the territory of KIM, when 250 MPs voted for those resolutions from 220 to 240 MPs of the National Assembly. This had weight in international relations, it was the main news in the world – the unique position of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia that Kosovo is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and that we do not settle with the presence of some of Kosovo and Metohija building a warehouse for drug dealers. Why'd you block that? Who's to blame? Well, it's your fault. Where's UNMIK? He's gone. What's Eulex doing? It is tasked to strengthen and confirm the legal elements of an independent state of Kosovo. Well, that's what the name stands for. For three years, all future Kosovo officials reportedly went to training, starting with Zagreb, via Ljubljana, to Brussels, training them, preparing them, and you had to know that. We warned you about that. And then you stopped the story of Kosovo and Metohija and this was supposed to be an elemental accident. It's no elemental accident, that's what you've made possible. I purposely tell you about Kosovo and Metohija as an obvious case known to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to warn you of something similar to that of this decision. Remember what happened a few years ago. The U.S. wanted to seduce... (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. How much longer do I have? (President: You have no more time. How about just one sentence? (President: finish your sentence, of course. I just want to remind these humanists what it's all about. The U.S. wanted to seduce the order in Somalia. One of their helicopters fell and the Somalians ran those two pilots through the main street; the Americans saw this kind of atrocities and fled Somalia with their heads no matter what. Make sure you don't put our people at risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21669	Mr. Aligrudic, in accordance with Article 93 of our Rules of Procedure, has the right, as well as Mr. Markicevic, to no longer be registered on the lists of parliamentary groups. First Mr. Aligrudić, who has two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21670	Thank you. Let me try in these two minutes one brief reminder. There's a difference here in political approach. It is not disputed that in a military-technical sense there is a reason to do what is proposed. We think that in a political sense the cuts are exhausted, because the way this is done is contrary to the vital interests of the Republic of Serbia and the message that the Republic of Serbia should send in foreign relations. That's why military neutrality, as a category, is the primary interest here, although this decision itself would not formally violate the principle of military neutrality. This is about passing the message, whether it is good to be directly with those and those who have recognised KIM's independence and whether this decision is, in that sense, without the external political consequences for the overall and integrity of the Serbian state and the integrity of foreign policy. One more thing, polemics, that's how much time I still have, when it comes to consistency in international relations, there's been a reference to tape ammunition and the Oslo Agreement. A conference was held here last year, sponsored by Vuk Jeremic, who then said Serbia should unilaterally implement a moratorium on tape ammunition. That was one attitude. Today we heard a second attitude, it's all from the same government. When there is no consistency in this matter, and tape ammunition, otherwise, kills 90% of civilians in the world, that's its main purpose, then the question arises – what kind of reputation in international relations are we talking about, when we were already talking about this agenda point? That's all. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21671	Mr. Markicevic wanted to. Mr. Markicevic, you have three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21672	Dear President, Mr. Minister, at the end of this afternoon's debate, I would like to say a few key words about New Serbia. New Serbia's parliamentary club did not enter this hall with the belief that it would vote against. We wanted to hear Mr. Minister, we wanted to hear other MP groups, colleagues; we're alone in a dilemma, it's human. We may not have enough information, but this is how the debate took place, which, I must say, the minister initiated. I'm sorry, it was the first time, Madam President, that you participated in this way. I looked at the stenogram. You had no reason to interrupt me. I only told the truth and only the truth. As far as the decision itself is concerned, I tried to sublime my dilemmas and thoughts on two topics, so-called. a double security risk, a risk to our people who go there and to the citizens of Serbia. For one question, I got an answer, which I'm not happy with. So, every soldier, every officer who volunteers for any action, for me is for respect and a hero, but for his life, no matter what he volunteered, I guess someone has to answer. It's not enough to say that they volunteered. That's one thing. The other thing, I said, Mr. Minister, if you don't say anything, or I realize that you want to keep quiet, that maybe it's a state secret. I will accept, as a sign of good faith, that the state's secret is that our citizens are safe or not safe. I believe in our intelligence services, both military and civilian, that they have estimated that there is no risk here for the citizens of Serbia and Belgrade, above all, our cities. You kept that quiet, and I said, as a member of the Security Committee, that I would respect that. In the end, let me tell you, as far as health care is concerned, I hope that, Madam President, first of all, it will be a special topic for you as a doctor here. Mr. Minister, I'd like to remind you, there was a large barracks near that hospital, the pride of the city of Chacka. There are rats there now, because there are strays: there is no barracks, there is no soldiers to fire an honorable fire for worthy citizens. I grew up next to that barracks, the roof fell apart, the facade fell down, the nettles, two meters. That's what you were supposed to tell us, that's what I'm talking about. I don't blame you, I say most well-meaningly, and about the hospital in Chačka, there's no real information, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21673	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21674	I must say, my heart hurts too that there is no barracks in Chačka and that your responsibility is much greater than mine. The cassarna in Chačka was shut down in time while you were in power, and you should explain to the citizens what was done to remove the cassarna from Casca after so many years of existence, not to accuse me. I'll also give you the exact dates when the barracks were evicted, as in the period of your power, the Army was reduced from 70,000 to 28,000. That's what you did, and you accuse others, you, supporting that policy. You may be surprised, but you personally supported the policy that led to it. As far as the hospital in Chačka is concerned, I only said one thing. I took humanitarian aid to the hospital in Chačka, so that people in Chačka had certain medications that didn't exist in that hospital. Whoever runs the hospital and doesn't run it, I don't share humanitarian aid by who runs the hospital, but to help those who are unhappy. Is there a private combination or a private business here? Do you know what a private combination looks like? A private combination looks like, say, 1991: Iraq attacks Kuwait, and in front of the US Embassy, there is a demonstration of support to the United States, led, at that time, by Duke Vojislav Seselj. Gentlemen, the Duke is offering powers to assist the US administration and the U.S. Army to deal with the Iraqi regime of Saddam Hussein. We don't have that experience anymore. We have this memory, which is why we worry that these contracts are certified in the UN. I'm glad you asked about the "Ceptine." Unfortunately, I don't think the system in which the state contracts is cheapest is obviously good, because the company that does it is the cheapest, looks like it's bankrupt and it can't end. But we'll end it in the next month or two and open it by autumn. Just so you know, it's been walling for about six or seven years, and we're gonna finish it. I can promise you that here, in front of all the MPs. I thank all the MPs who participated in the discussion today. I'm even more convinced today that I'm right. I'm glad you gave me the opportunity to speak to you, and I'll see you very soon. We have a series of laws that we should also make important strategies, both national security and defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-03-0.u21675	I thank Mr. Secretary. First of all, I'd like to conclude a unique search. Obviously, we've exhausted all the parliamentary and business opportunities. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the only item of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I set as the day for voting on the agenda points of the Sixth Extraordinary Session – 9 June 2009, at 10 pm, and on the only item of the agenda of the Seventh Extraordinary Session, therefore, this point – 9 June 2009, at 10.20 pm. Thank you for your cooperation. It's not a lot of dots, so I guess 20 minutes will be enough for the sixth session, and then we move on to this one. I thank you for your cooperation and until Tuesday – a small vacation. I'll see you Tuesday and we'll get back to work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 147 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Mladen Grujic. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF DURING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE "SOCIETE GENERALE" PARIZ, FRANCUSK, BY THE PROGRAMME OF THE PUBLIC A PUBLICATION OF "SERBIA" After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale" Paris, France, under the authority of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", in principle. For 126, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the draft law has been adopted in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 124 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I remind you it's Article 5. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In light of the bill's proposal, the government cited particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force before the eighth day of its publication, because of the need to provide conditions for the withdrawal of credit funds within the agreed deadline, which makes it justified to enter into force before 30 June 2009, bearing in mind that the loan's not being withdrawn until 30 June 2009. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. For 126, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly has determined that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale" Paris, France, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" in general. For 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Societ Generale", Paris, France, under the authority of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF DURING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE UNICREDIT BANK SRBIA A. D. BELEGRAD, BY PURPOSE OF THE PUBLIC PUBLICATION OF "SERBIA" After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting this bill to the vote, in principle. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For two, against one, two abstentions, 123, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I remind you it's Article 5. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that the reasons for the early entry into force of this law were particularly justified, within the meaning of Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, contained in the need to provide conditions for the withdrawal of credit funds within the agreed deadline, i.e. until 29 November 2009. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in general. For 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Unicredit Bank Serbia a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Tax Act on the Income of Citizens Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting you to a vote and I'm asking you to plead. For 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I remind you it's Article 2. The draft law provides that the law enters into force as early as the next day since the day of its publication. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In light of the bill's proposal, the government has stated that the law enters into force the following day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, because there are particularly justified reasons for fiscal nature to ensure that provisions governing the determination of the level of tax base in the taxation of income from copyright and copyright related rights are applied as soon as possible. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Two out of 128 MPs didn't vote for 126. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Income Tax, in general. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Income Tax. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. The session is closed at 10.25 hours. )
