ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly. I'd like to get some information from the Ministry of Health, so I'd like to ask you to send a stenogram of my presentation, Mrs. Komic, if you can during the day, given that things are not naive at all. In fact, I have already mentioned and opened up some of the problems that exist in the Bujanovac municipality's territory, which are not at all underestimating. The problem is that this is happening in parallel with some unpleasant events in Kosovo, facing which the government objectively closes its eyes, and right after the arrests that took place in Presevo, the ato are the arrests of terrorists who acted in Kosovo during the armed conflicts. I mentioned last week that there is a problem in the House of Health in Bujanovac and that problem is, I should say, a document sent to the SRS parliamentary group. Here's the thing. The unions of health workers and pharmacists and sister unions, health unions in Bujanovac, sent a letter informing the SRS parliamentary group that they had decided to strike a warning because of the fact that they were denied some of the rights the government decided in December 2001. In view of the fact that there is insufficient expertise in Bujanovac, specialists, in general health professionals, had to come from other municipalities from the territory of the Republic of Serbia to provide services to the citizens of Bujanovac municipality at one adequate level. In 2001, the government decided, in its conclusion of 121-14320/2001-2 of 18 December, that it would increase revenues by 50%, i.e. the salaries of health workers in Bujanovac, so that they could cover travel costs in the workplace through this increase. This, of course, applies not only to doctors and health workers of Serbian nationality, this also applies to health workers who are Albanians and who travel to Bujanovac from Nis, Kosovo Kamenica, Gjilan, Vranja, Surdulice and Presevo. Without any government decision and without any notice, the Republic Health Insurance Office, the Vranj branch, has transferred funds to the Health House in Bujanovac by 50% over the past month. As a result, health workers in Bujanovac have been identified as a warning strike, which will last one hour a day. This will continue until they hold their talks with the government, or representatives of the government, and if their demands are met, they will be defined as a strike until their demands are met. Because of this, because of the fact that it is a thorny area when it comes to the political situation in Serbia, I am asking the health ministry for answers and information on what basis they have decided, and guided by what criteria, to deny these funds that have been paid to health workers in Bujanovac since 2001?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13351	The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Rade, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Nikola Lazic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 58 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to explain the motion for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, I think it is very important to return to the three key points of the agenda that were held at this Parliament's session. One is... (President: Excuse me, MPs. I ask the People's Messengers to be silenced and to provide the People's Messenger with order and peace to finish his presentation. ) Mrs. Komic, I really don't mind and you have no reason to warn the MPs, who wants to hear, will hear. The public hears, and that's what's important to us. So when we had the draft budget law here, we turned our attention to the ruling coalition with how many delays we got that law. You, then, the ruling majority, tried to blame the opposition for this if the budget is not eventually made in time, although you were late, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with a budget proposal for 40 days. We had the Law on amendments to the Law on travel documents, which was on the agenda of the last day when it was due to take effect, and again you wanted to blame the opposition in the Assembly and that, with good media support, exclusively for the SRS, and for one and the other, that we were responsible if the citizens of Serbia could not travel through the white world for New Year's holidays. At the same time, we also had amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, where there would also be a collapse in the judiciary if there were no understanding of the SRS, because it would not have been known who was conducting the investigation, given the arraignment that occurred because you delivered this law literally on the last day when it was due to be voted. We now have a proposal for this decision to determine the composition of permanent delegations and yet for several days the media has been full of stories about how the SRS is causing obstruction and that because of us, the Assembly delegation has not gone to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. That, of course, is absolutely not true. The fellow MPs spoke about it the previous days. Of course, it is clear to all of us that the congregation majority is solely responsible for this. For the sake of the public, again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we received this proposal in Parliament on 20 January 2009 officially, and the deadline for adoption of this delegation, if we were to go to a new delegation, has already been heard that the existing delegation had been able to go and that it had been allowed by Mr Micunović – according to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we had to adopt this proposal seven days before the start of this current session. That was certainly not possible, given the date when we in parliament received this proposal. Mrs. Comic said and highlighted two interesting things that I would like to comment on on in the past few days, given that she is holding a session of parliament. One thing is that the Council of Europe expects the composition of the delegation from us. You said, Mrs. Comic – the composition of delegations was late because there was no agreement between the heads of parliament. I'm asking if an agreement was reached on January 20th when you sent us a proposal for consideration and adoption? No, it's not. So that wasn't an argument for you to convince the MPs and the citizens of Serbia. You also said that we are expected to make a decision on who represents the Serbian Parliament after the last parliamentary elections. You said that well and that is exactly what we SRS deputies are looking for and what we insist on, therefore, on the results of the last parliamentary elections. Not only are we talking about this delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, here, let's say, a call, you adopt this proposal, you are the parliamentary majority, because you can, and our delegation goes to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation; there is, in front of the ZES, a proposed Mr Alexander Vlahovic, a man who has a lot of parliamentary experience and who, in general, is known to have a lot of personal connections in the white world, and certainly business. For example, in this assembly, he is asked by one of his colleagues from a European country or by an official of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation and says – is he, Vlahovicu, who is this Dejan Mirovic to you? He will say – it is a gentleman from the Serbian Radical Party. Yeah, well, how long did that party win the May 11th election term? Mr. Vlahovic will have to say it is 78 seats. Well, then they'll ask him, who's this Jorgenka Tabakovic? He will have to say -- he is a member of some Serbian advanced, or whatever it is called, party. Then those in the parliamentary assembly will say – well, and how long has the party won the term in the last parliamentary elections? Then Vlahovic will have to say – the party did not participate at all in the elections, they were legalised in parliament by Boris Tadic as part of the implementation of the project "introduction of dictatorship in Serbia". That's what's true and that's what the facts are. The agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is among other topics – how to improve democracy. It would be very interesting if our delegation had been there these days so that we could explain how democracy in Serbia is improving, how the electoral will of citizens is being trampled and how the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is, in fact, in an unconstitutional state for about five months. That is why we have in the media the opinion of Mrs Nada Kolundzhija that she will personally advocate that SRS MPs cannot participate in this delegation because we are violating all the rules of the Council of Europe. I don't know if Mrs Kolundzija was referring to the Bodrum vote, the Thessaloniki vote, the exclusion of the entire DS parliamentary group, at a time when we had 308 MPs in parliament instead of 250 MPs, or this unconstitutional and illegal state now, for which the ruling majority is absolutely responsible. We asked you several times yesterday if you could and who would give us a final answer to which parties some MPs belonged. Here, I have downloaded from the assembly site the composition of the Committee on Agriculture, which says Otto Kismarton is a member of the SRS, that Masic Zoran is a member of the SRS, that Sasa Maksimovic is a member of the SRS. With this information, you insult both the SRS and, I suppose, these people who are not members of the SRS. They've defined themselves not to be, and we don't have any problems with that anymore. We know what your problem is. The problem is Article 102(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which makes it clear that the MPs (I will not quote a member, but I will convince him, you all know him) are the property to offer their mandates to the party who introduced them to parliament, as Mr Ristic, who is now coming out, that he is here in parliament representing his party's interests, says "who has delegated me to parliament from his list". That is exactly what we from the Serbian Radical Party insist on; we want to represent the Serbian Radical Party with 78 mandates, as we have won in the last elections. You, of course, can't do it either because of the Constitution, and you can't make it public that way, and neither can you because of the report on the elections conducted for the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was published in the "Official Messenger" and adopted unanimously in the RIK on 5 June 2008. It says here that the list For Europe's Serbia won 102 terms of office, SRS 78, DSS 30, SPS - PUPS - JS 20, LDP Cedomira Jovanovic 13, Hungary coalition 4, the Bosniak List for European Sandzak 2 and the Coalition of Albanians Presevska dolina 1. These are data adopted by the Republic Election Commission and that no one can take down. This is what is causing the problem for you from the ruling majority, why what you want to do in parliament and what you are already doing in parliament must not be published on the assembly site. Article 239(2) also obliges you. Gentlemen, the position of the 2nd member clearly states that the motion for a decision on the composition of the permanent delegations referred to in Article 1 shall be submitted by the President of the Assembly, in consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, taking into account the representation of political parties and gender representation. It is obvious that you have an obligation to respect the proportion of political parties because the election is not attended by parliamentary groups, but by political parties. I ask the gentleman of the Democratic Party – it can happen that Srdjan Milivojevic, a known fighter for democracy, decides that he can no longer suffer such non-democratic relations in his coalition and that he will separate himself from some 10-15 MPs from this ZES group, when you adopt such a decision, will you put that decision here with amendments and additions to allow that new group to represent us in one of the parliamentary congregations? Of course you won't, because you don't have a legal basis for it, not in this case. So, gentlemen, it's a legal postulate that every freshman in law school knows, one wrong can't get away with other rights. The very fact that you from the ruling majority have recognised Tomislav Nikolic's parliamentary club and this company around it does not give you the right to allow them to participate, to represent the Assembly in any international institution. Since I spent a lot of time, only one message to Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Mrs. Komic and Mrs. Kolundžija, they often use it, and others who use it – there is no conflict between, as you say, current and former members of the SRS. There are no clashes in the SRS. You'd like to have them, but they're not there. There is only a conflict between legally elected SRS MPs and the ruling majority, which does not allow us to be represented in parliament by 78 MPs, as much as Serbian citizens wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13353	The word has the People's MP Nikola Lazic, followed by the MP Aleksandar Jankovic. The time available to the DSS parliamentary group is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13354	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, participation in international parliamentary parliaments is an opportunity for our MPs in the domain of parliamentary diplomacy to represent and defend state and national interests. On this occasion, I would like to briefly refer to events these days related to the participation of our MPs in the international parliamentary parliaments. Last week, Parliament Speaker informed us that on the basis of a suggestion from the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe did not take part in their regular session. So it wasn't the Committee's decision, it was the Committee president's decision. I think that's where Parliament's president made a mistake, because the Foreign Affairs Committee cannot and should not be one man. This occasion is a bigger mistake, as parliament speaker is not an unexperienced parliamentarian, has experience in the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Serbia-Montenegro Parliament, so he knows how things work in these situations. I must express my disappointment with the fact that Serbia, since it was an independent state, I think, and while the SCG Parliament existed, will for the first time not have a delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We're risking a few things with this non-participation. Of course, the first is that our absence is interpreted as a fact that we do not have a delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is why some of our representatives would lose some places in the forums and committees of this organisation. It is also a fact that, earlier today, the verified mandates of an existing delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which proved that this assessment by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was incorrect and that it brought damage to our national and national interests. Secondly, the president of parliament said that the absence of our delegation at this meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is not much of a pity, given that only information will be provided at this session regarding the resolution on Kosovo, and that it will only be discussed a few months later. I think it is a pity, however, that our delegation will be left behind, because anyone who knows the rules of work and the procedures of the international parliamentary parliaments, in the specific case of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, knows that since the very presentation of the resolution, what the Swedish MP, Mr Von Sidof, is going to do, is going through a series of formal and informal steps and consultation on the design, change, direction and resolution. So it's a long-term process and it doesn't only take place at one session. I am sure that during the first reading of the draft resolution there will already be announcements of certain, so-called. lips, amendments. Of course, the absence of our delegation on this occasion can be interpreted as indifference or as a weakness of the state, or both. Only one who does not understand or does not want to understand the procedures of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe thinks that this is not some problem that we will not attend this meeting, and I fear that among those who declare such things there are those who have a rich experience in international parliamentary assemblies and generally in international contacts. So the question is whether it's ignorance or bad will, and maybe it's something else. With the presentation of this resolution, it implies several things: for example, the formation of the so-called The security forces of Kosovo, i.e. the formation of the Kosovo army, as well as the announcement that promoters so-called. Kosovo's independent states to be former mediators in Kosovo's future status negotiations Alber Roan and Wolfgang Ischinger. These people were supposed to be neutral intermediaries, and I think the fact that they will be promoters of Kosovo's independence speaks of how neutral they are. Also, the European Parliament announced that a resolution on Kosovo would be adopted at the end of February. In light of all this, instead of our delegation playing an active role, that she went to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe meeting and took part in the formation of a resolution that should be adopted within a few months, this act has led the Assembly to decide to disembark itself from this process. I think the most appropriate term here would be something that the ruling coalition would be very happy to use in the pre-election campaign, which is the word self-insulation. How an active role can really be played is an example of working on the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Kosovo, which, in time, was proposed by Lord Russell Johnston and which thanks to its involvement as head of Mr Milos Aligrudic's delegation and most of the MPs who participated in the delegation have changed so much that it has become contradictory to themselves. So, from the original intention that it promotes Kosovo's independence, there are items in the resolution that predict that a solution for Kosovo must be on the basis of a compromise, in line with the UN Charter, etc. Even the resolution was timely the subject of talks by the president of Russia with different statesmen. Generally speaking, the state is much more costing non-participation at such important gatherings, especially after years of isolation, when we were really starting over. Once again, the self-insulation we've been pushed into at this particular opportunity is not going to do anyone any good. In the end, I will only express my disappointment that the participation of our delegation in any international forum, in this particular situation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, depends not on institutions, but on the will of one person, whoever that person is. It is a step back in strengthening institutions, but it is obviously a choice of the ruling majority, such as their choice to make the state and national interests in this situation subordinate to the party's.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13355	The word is from Ambassador Petar Jojic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13356	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, a few days ago I asked a parliamentary question concerning imports of non-productive food into the Republic of Serbia. I ask countless questions, however, Madam President, the answers to these questions are not complete. All the answers I receive from the competent resolutions, the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and other entities to which they are addressed are very superficial, do not refer to the subject, nor to the question I have asked; or, if they are concerned, with numerous shortcomings and hidden among the official data. Unfortunately, the government and the competent Ministry of Trade are not responding, but I must say that today's state television, Serbia's Television, as a public service, for the first time, has given an answer to the parliamentary question. Investigators, journalists from RTS released information this morning in the first morning's journal, thus answering those questions I asked, which relate to imports of food goods into Serbia. Reporters from RTS, which should be supported, announced that Serbia imported meat for processing in 2008. You know what kind of scumbags can tie when it comes to meat for reprocessing? These loaves are allowed to import anything and to make reprocessing, and there may be a god-awful waste from the EU. Serbia gave 40m euros last year to import meat. Does Serbia have conditions for meat production? It also has conditions to produce surpluses, to export goods worth hundreds of millions of euros. Serbia's radio-television announced that tenm euros were given for imports of tomatoes, importing plums, importing carrots, apples, potatoes and all that can be produced in Serbia. (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure you wish to say is injured. ) Articles 225, 226 and 104. Please, Madam Vice President, I'm looking for an answer because this is a very important question for our citizens. If I've wasted my time, I'll get back to you and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13357	The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I am reporting in accordance with the article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, so that there may be no confusion, but I will immediately warn you that I will read one member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that you do not give me a warning measure, since it is a practice here. It's about Article 55. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "The freedom of political, trade union and any other association is guaranteed and the right to remain outside each association. Associations shall be established without prior authorisation, subject to registration in the register run by a state body, in accordance with the law. Secret and paramilitary associations are forbidden. The Constitutional Court may prohibit only that association whose activities are aimed at violent destruction of the constitutional order, violation of guaranteed human or minority rights or at causing racial, national or religious hatred. "In line with the mentioned members, I ask the question. Since it is known that the security forces of Kosovo have been formed and that they are members of these security forces, so-called. The KLA or UKK soldiers, for which there is numerous evidence, I have also brought images in which these terrorists appear in UCK uniforms, and these same terrorists appear in these security forces of Kosovo, asking questions for competent authorities, i.e. for the Constitutional Court, since it is widely known that these terrorists committed the worst crimes against the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija on 17 March 2004, did the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, in any way attempt to act to ban this paramilitary formation that violates the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia? If not, I ask the question why is it not and when will it do so, given that there is not a lot of legal knowledge and evidence that we all already possess, that it is a paramilitary formation that destroys the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia? Therefore, I ask you to give me an answer as soon as possible and that the Constitutional Court reacts as soon as possible to the emergence of such a paramilitary formation in the territory of the Serbian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13359	The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and I'm asking for an explanation, i.e. a notice from the competent foreign affairs ministry or from Mr Vuk Jeremic's foreign minister. In the shadow of forming illegals, so-called. Kosovo security forces, whose formation yesterday and Russian ambassador, Mr. Konuzin, also denied daily incidents in Kosovo, are the Serb and non-Albanian people in panic after learning of a recent visit to Albania's president, Pristina. This occasion is between Albania and the so-called self-proclaimed Kosovo signed an agreement to abolish the border between Albania and Kosovo, and visas and customs have also been abolished. The issue is how does the state of Albania, with which Serbia has full diplomatic relations, conclude an agreement with part of Serbia's state territory, and Kosovo is, according to the current constitution, part of Serbia's territory? So Albania concludes with Kosovo a contract that abolishes borders, customs and so forth. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I remind you that Albania is another country in the world, after Afghanistan, which has admitted so-called. Independent Kosovo, but still our ambassador is in Tirana and Albania's Excellency in Belgrade. Serbs need an open and serious face-to-face with the truth, and the truth is unpleasant, difficult, and the danger is much greater. Citizens of Kosovo and Metohija fear that one day at the Pancic summit in Kopalnik there will be no border between Serbia and Albania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13361	The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. In 225 and 226, which has been governed by the right of the MP to be notified. These days, several parents of eighth grade primary school students called me on the phone asking me to request a notice from the Ministry of Education whether the qualifications exams for enrolment in high school will be more difficult this year and what is behind it. In fact, Mr. Bogoljub Lazarevic, assistant minister of secondary education, announced in the media that the test in the qualification exam for enrolment in high school except for the tasks in the collection of mathematics and Serbian language will include unknown tasks, i.e. tasks that are not available in collections. These announcements were confirmed by the Minister of Education. The second term began last Wednesday, and no official memo arrived to the school's educators, nor a statement to those rules of passing the qualification exam. Until the qualification exam was passed, there were less than five months left. The collections by which the eight prepare this exam will contain tasks from material from sixth to eighth grade, and have not yet been printed. Given that at the beginning of the school year there was no notice of changing the conditions for passing exams, if indeed there will be a change, I think it is necessary at least to notify the official schools, so that students can prepare for new rules. Besides, another newspaper has been announced. Passing a qualification exam so far has been in front of primary school teachers, and will now be in front of high school teachers who are enrolled by students. Another question – will the Ministry of Education keep the promise that there will be no layoffs of educational workers, since the number of students is reduced year after year, and the social programme will not be, because there is no means to do so? I'm asking the Ministry of Education to get me a notice on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13363	The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. I want to inform the public that there is an unprecedented media manipulation in Serbia by the way the SRS wants to be presented as guilty of all the troubles this country and these citizens have. In fact, we are only handling the principles of legitimate parliamentary struggle in the SRS. We want to fight all those who are trying to take our mandates. Everyone in Serbia knows how much we won the term. On the site of parliament is a photograph of one of our kidnapped members with the badge of Vojislav Seselj. All the media in Serbia talk and keep writing about how much the day of this parliament's session costs, and the sessions would be shorter and fewer if the SRS didn't behave like this. That is why no media in Serbia wants to say how much the citizens of Serbia are costing only today, due to the growth of the euro rate compared to the dinar. We know that only today did the euro rise from the dinar by about 1%. If we know that the average salary in Serbia is about 35,000 dinars and that the average pension is about 20,000 dinars, each employee today has lost 350 dinars and every pensioner in Serbia has lost 200 dinars today. It was similar yesterday. We don't know how it's gonna be tomorrow. Maybe it'll get worse. That is why Serbian citizens want to be distracted from the real problems that this country and this people are really facing. This place and this pay phone, which can hear things that are not in the media, want to be discredited so that Serbian citizens will not know the truth and that all this is happening is responsible for this government, not someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13365	National MP, you did not specify which authority and organisation you are requesting information or information from, nor did you provide the content of your request. If we use this member under a silent agreement, I ask that we use it according to the rules. Article 226 implies that you're asking someone for some kind of information, which you didn't do. I warn you, this does not seem to be the use of the right to receive words and quote art. 225 and 226. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13366	Madam Vice President, based on an article. 225th and 226th again reporting and requesting notice from the competent Ministry of Agriculture. In particular, this refers to a 44-hectare pasture, which was leased in the local community of Bavanište, the Kovin municipality. There is a Law on Agricultural Land, there is a law on the return of pastures to villages, how could a 99-year contract be concluded and that the local community gives it to a man for 99 years? Calculate now, 44 acres times 99 years, how many acres is that. What is even uglier, harder and more unfair is that the contract mentions and norms, provided that this tenant can also sublet a third party. There's a violation of the law here. I request a reply from the Minister of Agriculture, specifically, what is the status of pastures and mornings in the local community, in the populated town of Bavanište, given that it has been admitted and given to use a person who was not allowed into the possession of pastures, because it needs a village and needs citizens? It's worth a lot to the citizens of Bavanist. I just started and suggested that the TV of the Republic of Serbia has finally started giving some shows, but I have a proposal for Serbia's television, as a state medium, to pay more attention to farmers and villages, to individual agricultural producers. There are fewer TVs where third-rate singers or weddings are in villages. How are they going to record the future of these shows called "Marriage" when they go to the village and there are no peasants in the village? Where are they gonna be able to record those shows? Serbia's television has an obligation and I suggest that TV be mandatory every week, almost every second or third day, one show that will refer to the position of agriculture and what the state proposes, what it will do to improve the situation of farmers, farmers and cattlemen. I propose that the TV station of the Republic of Serbia film a show on farmers on the territory of the Zlatibor district, first of all, to see what livestock production is like in Zlatibor, Tornik, Murtenica, Zlatar, Mučnja, Javor, Cave and other parts. There's no more shepherding songs to be heard about. You can't hear the bells. What's the state doing? Don't do anything. Agriculture is really ruined. That is why it is necessary for one show of Serbian television to be recorded and to cover the settlements of Jasenovo, Kućni, Ojkovica, Trudovo, Mochioce, Negbin, Draglica, Rasnica, Jelova Gora, Donja and Gornja Bela River, Semegnjevo, Krina Reka, Ravni, Ljubiš, Bela Reka, Kokin Brod, Radojina, Dumbelovici, Amzici, Trudovo, Kokići, Grbici, Gojdici, etc., not to mention, because these are villages that are extinct and it is necessary... (President: Four minutes. I thank you. I'm sorry. I'll continue later. Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13367	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. After that, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13368	God, brothers and sisters, Serbian citizens and citizens' representatives in this high house. I, apparently, tried completely unsuccessfully yesterday to point out that it was not by any chance that somewhere around the Holy Sava, the founder of our state and the church, there was a debate on the composition of permanent delegations in international parliamentary institutions. What concerns me as an MP, and above all as an expert, as a psychologist, is the increasing degree of autism, indifference, and the occasional indifference that we show. It's probably not strange, not by chance, given that we have a arrogant, indifference, honest, incompetent authority, and, in addition, a person in the role of a president who suffers from serious self-involvement syndrome. Can one of you explain to me how the match played by Nadal or Williams could be more important than the composition of permanent Serbian delegations in the world's parliamentary institutions? I really don't know, I guess Boris Tadic had a great need to watch these fights and that maybe it was a rescue solution for us to pay a man a ticket to go out there, watch live, and we're doing serious state affairs here. The government is extremely incompetent. In front of this assembly are the people who belong to the shopping houses of Belgrade. You should have seen what it looked like in a move from the government to the assembly, from the Parliament to the government, because these people were trying to call into their minds anyone who could help them in a difficult economic situation. Currently in front of the Assembly, there are people in mutilated clothes, with Chinese umbrellas that are falling off, surrounded by police. There's a very high degree of tension. Is it really possible that we don't have enough consciousness and reason to deal with important life problems, like these people, like people who now lose their jobs in the flag? They were lied to once, and no one was responsible for it. Minister Dinkic is not only Baron Minhauzen, he is a criminal, he is a man who due to unfulfilled promises must be in prison. Instead, he again promises the people some loans that will be very stimulating, and we now need to get chestnuts out of the fire, because it turns out that the Italian government will not finance "Fiat", so it remains, likely, to be financed by the Serbian government and the Serbian citizens, we have plenty. What about these unfortunates who have both froze and sneezed and are now in front of the congregation, it's like nobody's interested. Look at what the Assembly looks like. Where are the MPs? Is this some kind of unexpected vacation? I'm obviously not informed, or at least I'm not informed enough. I don't know where all these people are. Where are the people of power, where are the people who need to answer, to come out, to face their people? They're afraid the people will say hello. We didn't go to Strasbourg, we didn't discuss anything important, and the citizens write letters to this guy; look at what a desperate appeal it is: "Help reveal the truth about the missing in Kosovo. Perhaps you can provide valuable information about the fate of those who are missing. If you have attended, heard, heard or had any material evidence or trace of the missing in Kosovo, please inform us at the following address: [email protected]." Is it possible, people, that we're going to receive letters like this, that we're going to debate, we're going to have some infertile debates here, and we're not going to do anything seriously? Do you know who is commander of these Kosovo security forces? Do you know that after much pressure, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija was held in this assembly, and no opposition request was adopted to include a proposal for the Serbian Parliament to hold an extraordinary session dedicated to Kosovo and Metohija as a conclusion? No one seems to care about that anymore. Even these marketing mags, very close to these "Idolims", tell us -- don't talk about Kosovo, it's deplaced, Kosovo is gone, Kosovo is lost. That's what we heard here. We've heard that thesis is being placed. You're a socialist. How do we deal with social security? Which one of us is seriously going to go out and tell these people that we have to watch Nadal, so we're sitting at 13.00 hours, and then we're supposed to be dealing with, like, some delegations, and we're late in every way. Among other things, I am very interested in why there is no defence minister here, or person in the role of defence minister. Someone who hasn't even managed to lift that ramp in front of JUL and who doesn't know how many bullets there are in the clip can't be the Secretary of Defense. The question for him is – does he know who the commander of Kosovo's security forces is? The man is not an SS. He's an SSS, Suleiman Selimi, a.k.a. Sultan, involved in drug trafficking, weapons of extortion. In the provisional government of Hashim Thaci, he was commander of the Kosovo National Guard, which recommended him as commander of the Kosovo Security Force. According to KFOR's top-secret information, Selimi's name is attached to the Albanian intelligence service SISH. Albania and its intelligence through it co-ordinate the activities of terrorist groups in the region. He's connected to mujahedins and Abu Bekir Sadik's unit. In three years, Kosovo's security forces will become Kosovo's regular army. The question arises why is it hiding that it is an army organized by brigades, with uniforms, complete infrastructure, including the hoods obtained by the Albanian army? Does Mr Sutanovic, by any chance, know who trains, dresses and supplies these Kosovo security forces? Traditionally, they are trained by the British, uniformed by the Americans, and driven by the Germans. Word is they'll be easily armed. According to the footage we saw, if they're easily armed, then the French maids are also very naive. So, there are serious life issues here. At this point in Koseric, for example, car tyres are burned in the centre of the city, not only from Serbia, but we are now importing European waste, burning those tires, and thus making citizens a little bit of resilient. What would we only have as a black spot when we can have Koseric and make Serbia a "gravo juicer"? I really appeal to the MPs, especially from this ruling party, that they really come to their senses in some worldly spirit. It's not enough to organize a few school events, go to the academy and think you haven't committed any sin. It is a sin to remind you not only of doing evil but also of doing good. Indeed, in my personal name and in the name of New Serbia, I call on all of us to choose, as is appropriate for lighthouses, these permanent delegations, which will proudly promote the ideas of a new Serbia whose culture, tactics, unity and spiritation should serve as a model for all European countries and the world that has driven itself out of heaven. I invite you as people and, above all, as representatives of the people, to come out a little, talk to these people in front of the Assembly and stop being autistic as our government and as our own self-loving president.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13369	National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13370	Madam Chairman, I am reporting on the basis of members 225 and 226 and please allow me to ask a question and ask for an answer – what is the situation in the well-known institution "Recreatures" Belgrade? Namely, this firm has huge assets, but the question is who is using the property, on which legal basis, who is pulling it, who is stealing it, and how is the state of Serbia damaged, and it is dozens and over 100m euros. Namely, I received one letter, sent through the SRS parliamentary group, and the SRS gives such phenomena extraordinary attention and tries to stand on the tail of thieves and criminals. Now I'm going to read just what property that "Recreatures" owns. Those were union resorts. There is the following property: their headquarters in Cetinje No. 3, in Velika Gradište they have facilities, then they have "Borjak", hotel "Slatina" in Vrnjačka Banja, resort "Golia" Ivanica, hotel "Panorama" on Zlatar, hotel "Olga Dedijer" on Kopalnik, "Biserna coast" in Canja, hotel "Sumadia" in Rafaelovici, and a huge property still located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Property in the Republic of Croatia is huge. Five times, criminals and hoodlums gave that property an estimate to give the fifth time recently to re-evaluate that property. The property was estimated by one firm, qualified and recognised, at 100m and some million, to now, for the fifth time, assess the new estimate at 18m euros. It is property that is huge, over 100m euros, and above all in Rovinj, Hvar, Biograd na Moru, Srebrenica. It is 3,430 square meters of residential, i.e. hotel space. Of 123,000 11,000 square meters in Rovinj, Stari Grad na Hvar is 1,600 square meters of apartments, and more property that no one controls. Imagine, 143,000 euros gave a new evaluator from Croatia to carry out a new assessment and thus to get the property of workers, peasants, citizens of Serbia, the state of Serbia. I'm asking if it's the criminal police, is the prosecution... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... take appropriate measures? What's the Agency and the Government doing? I'm looking for information on how many square meters we had, in which place in Croatia, what was the value in 2004 and what is it today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13371	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, here's the answer when the issue is raised at the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 29 December 2008. I'll try to do all this in three minutes, as long as I have. On the one hand, the government is reducing agricultural subsidies due to a poor economic situation, and on the other hand, it is not giving up the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement of 1 January, which will produce a deficit in the state register of 267m euros, at a rate of 19 December, and further collapse agriculture. You can imagine how many millions are now at this new value of the euro. Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragin said several months ago that the Ministry of Agriculture opposed the unilateral application of the SAA in this year, because it literally means that every year, for one part of agricultural products, we remove customs duties on imports and that it would be crazy to open up more than we have to in the year when we do not become a candidate country for EU accession. The minister said that the unilateral application of the SAA by Serbia is not in the interest of our country's agriculture at the moment, because we will lift customs duties for 40% of domestic agricultural products, about 1000 products, at a time when we are far from ready for the upcoming EU-derived competition, often multiplely subsidised compared to ours, and that Serbia does not have enough resources to improve the competitiveness of domestic agriculture, and EU accession assistance for this purpose is not yet available. Minister Dragin changes his stance and declares December 28th that the first year is a honeymoon in taking down customs duties and that for this reason we will not have bigger earthquakes, nor will any important segment of agricultural production be threatened. On 27 September, the same minister claimed that the first day of the SAA administration would be suspended customs duties for 40% of the product, and yesterday he told us that the first year of application of the agreement would be the year of the honeymoon. In order to avoid further reading the presentation of the MP of this and that, it is known who goes out for the pay phone and who represents the attitudes of the peasants, this is how the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy responds: the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management would be against the application of the SAA by the end of 2008, because in this way, within only a few months, customs on agricultural products would be double liberalised. All agricultural products imported from the EU into the Republic of Serbia by importance are divided into four groups, depending on the degree of protection. The first group is agricultural products, which would join the EU from Serbia, for which customs duties are lifted on the day of the start of the transitional agreement. This group includes, among other things, products such as living horses, donkeys, sheep... (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are referring. ) Members of 225 and 226, I apologize for the speed, here I am. ... Pigs for breeding, hens, horsemeat, certain types of cheese, tropical fruit. Thanks for the tropical fruit, that's what we make. This means that trade for the least sensitive products is liberalised in the first year, while other products are liberalised by the end of six years. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. Another sentence. We note that for the most sensitive products of the Republic of Serbia, customs will remain after a six-year transitional period. Gentlemen, see when we can export our agricultural products and what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13373	National MP, I warn you that the use of members 225 and 226 implies an obligation for a MP to make a request for information and information from the competent authority and organisation, as well as to quote a member to whom he is called. In the third minute of your presentation, as always, I asked, no information, no explanation asked of anyone. Please and I warn you that this is not how we use, or abuse the agreed wording of the members of 225 and 226. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13374	Madam Vice President, I am reporting on the basis of members 225 and 226 and I ask you to allow me to ask a question, that is, to ask an answer – why has the doctor's duty at the hospital ward in Pancheve been lifted? I come from Pancheva, and a large number of citizens ask why duty was lifted at the hospital wards in Pancheva. What kind of answer did I get from some of the hospital? He says, during the night, an orthopedic will help the cardiologist or the internal department will come to show help to cancer-treated people. I don't know what this is. Where we live and is it possible? They'll have an answer to that, too, and they'll say that a vet can get involved in the night to be on call at the hospital, he can keep an eye on everything, all the departments to cover and to point out medical attention. Guys, get your head in the air. I'm asking for a reply from the Minister of Health as to why duty was lifted at the hospital center in Pancheva. That's one thing. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to finish that question that concerns "Recreatures." I ask for notice whether he is still director of the company, selected twice, Miroljub Djenadic, and whether he is still chairman of the Management Board, Mr Zoran Vasiljevic. I request a notice from the police minister, Mr Dacic, whether he is familiar with the report and the data published in a daily newspaper that speaks about it, bearing the title "The Graves of Union Tourism". Although it's a tabloid, let the criminal police deal with it and see what's at stake in this extremely valuable institution, i.e. A union organisation which had, above all, numerous resorts in Serbia, Croatia and Montenegro. Please, it's a large number of objects that have great value. This cannot be left to anyone, the state, the government and the appropriate agency must be involved here, and criminal police must first be involved. Criminal police must also disclose whether it is true that the property of the Republic of Serbia was worth about 100m euros in order for its price to be estimated at only 18m euros today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13375	National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13376	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, we are all witnesses that in the past two months, a group of citizens, primarily workers employed in the Belgrade Robing Houses, protested in the winter in front of the Presidency building in Pioneer Park. We were witnesses when we returned late from the Assembly, and in one night and two nights, that they stayed in the uncle's winter and stayed there, with clear intent to distract the public, but primarily to the executive authorities to pay attention to their problem, to finally receive them and to see if it was possible to find a satisfactory solution. The reason why I'm reporting is a memo that came to all the parliamentary groups, and I want to read it here, for the simple reason that it's really high time for people to receive it. Today they were forced to gather in large numbers and are in front of the building. We all know what time it is, and we all know that these people, since they've been protesting for two months, are very tired. It really doesn't make sense that this parliament has no possibility, desire or will to talk to these people. They're asking to be called the Privatisation Committee. 20 days ago, they sent a letter to both parliamentary clubs and to the president of the Privatisation Committee, Mr Milan Nikolic, to convene the Committee, to invite representatives of the executive authority and to open the problem. The government is silent, which is, let's say, and understandable, but there's no reason for us to be silent. If we are already talking about the efficiency of this Parliament's work, this is a great and good opportunity to show these workers who are in front of the building, but also to the public that when the problem comes to that point people must receive and that the conversation must begin. Let's, as a parliament, launch an initiative to convene the Privatisation Committee, get these people in touch and see what can be done in their interest. I appeal to you as chairman today, as the Deputy President of the Assembly's authorised deputy, to hold an unconditional meeting with these people today. Indeed, I feel a little bad too, and I believe the vast majority of MPs, because we have these citizens outside the National Assembly who are now freezing and sneezing, and we've been on their appeal for two months now, and based on this letter with an official request to convene the Privatisation Committee for 20 days, we've been silent. I'm sorry, but this is the responsibility of the ruling coalition. So, we're showing good faith here, and I think it's also in the interest of the ruling coalition to receive workers from the company of the Robing House, Belgrade... (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. I'm done. Indeed, as chairman, I expect you to organise this meeting and inform us of the MPs and the public when it will happen today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13377	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I ask all MPs that when they use the right to get word through order, which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13378	Madam Chairman, I apologize, reporting to the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226, for the response I received from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The only way for the villagers to get to what we're asking about agriculture, what they're expecting is this -- that I go out for this pay phone and just read what the minister said. So I didn't abuse the pay phone in the last call. I repeat, it is said that the Minister of Agriculture is not in favour of this decision on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the part concerning imports of agricultural products. The answer here is nice: "The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management was against the application of the SAA by the end of 2008, because in this way, within just a few months, it would have entered the double liberalisation of agricultural customs products. "It says: "All agricultural products imported from the EU into the Republic of Serbia according to the importance of the product for Serbia are divided into four groups, depending on the degree of protection. "They put in the first group – agricultural products for which customs duties are abolished, normally for export, on the day of the start of the transitional agreement. This group includes, among other things, products such as living horses, donkeys, sheep and breeding pigs, laying hens, horsemeat, certain types of cheeses and tropical fruits. That's what I'm saying, that you in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry put what I said in the first group. The second group – agricultural products for which customs duties are progressively abolished until the end of the transitional period. This refers to the progressive abolition of ad valorem customs duties, while seasonal customs duties, if any, are lifted on the date of entry into force of the agreement. Also, the quota for exports of Serbian June to the EU market is 8,700 tonnes, while the sugar quota is 180,000 tonnes. We only have empty farms, what kind of exports of 8,700 tons of junetine? It is important to liberalise trade for the least sensitive products in the first year, while other products are liberalised by the end of the six-year period. So we're six years old. He says: "We note that for the most sensitive products from the Republic of Serbia, customs will remain after a six-year transitional period." What are the most sensitive products for us? It's known: wheat, corn, war products, sunflower. It's that SAA and the European community.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13379	People's Messenger, you have not asked anyone for any notice the second time. You have neither listed the body or organisation to which you would request an explanation that you need to work, nor presented the contents of the questions, the information you need, and that is to abuse the provisions of 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I warned you not to do that. I warned you it was an abuse and violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We won't all act convincingly enough in front of those we address if we're not ready to follow our own rules. So, please don't let the silent agreement get broken. The silent agreement is to get the word for quoting members 225 and 226, and the MP or MPs who receive the word are obliged to provide the content of the information they need for work and the organisation they require that information from. Everything else is a violation of that silent agreement, on the one hand, and you leave me no alternative but then I feel that you do not agree to be used by members of 225 and 226. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13380	Madam Vice President, you're right about some things and it's a good thing this very important topic has been found and questions raised in the Republic Parliament are being asked. I am telling you that this is one of the most important topics regarding our citizens in the Republic of Serbia. I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, and I am asking the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Sasa Dragina, for the list of persons, individual agricultural producers, who have received grants, precisely in which amount and original contracts have been concluded. This is what citizens are looking for because they feel that some are neglected and some are favored, and now we have to explain. I was asked the other day in the village of Bavanisht, while I spoke to the locals of that village – well, can we get grants, because some of them get and we can't? This one says, well, I handle 200 ha of agricultural land, I have a farm, and I can't get a loan. Let's see, this is good for the ruling coalition as well as for the opposition to inform the citizens, what it is and whether there are certain illegalities or not, whether there are abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13381	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13382	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, in fact, in the first place of Article 226, I request a notice from the prime minister of the Serbian government, and you, Mrs Comic, will help me with other competent ministries, in relation to the very difficult social and economic situation in Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party has been trying from the very beginning to draw attention to the Serbian government that it is necessary to appear in this home to hear what the action plan for overcoming the effects of the global financial crisis is. With this in mind, not only relying on information that has appeared in the means of public information, we have asked direct questions to the competent and the own to deal with this problem in order to get concrete answers. We have not come out with data that, conditionally speaking, can cause panic and may further increase tensions in a very fragile Serbian society. Last week, within the time that allowed it, we came out with data that on various grounds without a job, unfortunately, there were 6,781 workers left, and only according to data from the Ministry of Labour. Mr Ljajic gave a very precise and studioly analysis of co-operation with other ministries. Here we also listed the number and precise name of the company behind the layoff of nearly 6,800 workers. Multiply that by the number four, so you'll see how many people in Serbia will in perspective face what is the basis of existence, and that's actually what we all receive monthly to ensure our family's life worth living. However, we have remained in debt to the citizens and to the next data. According to the Employment Service, and in October 2008, the largest number of employees were fired on the basis of the expiry of the work contract for a certain time; that is 32,018 of our fellow citizens. Then, a significant number of cases of termination of employment under the employee and employer agreement or the employee's initiative were recorded, which is 15,871 people. A total of 64,033 people in Serbia no longer have income. We expect that, as soon as possible, the departments in charge tell us how long it has arrived with the creation of a national employment action plan for this year, since we hear that, in addition to the budget funds (I apologize for being overrun, just to finish), funds are also provided on the basis of certain projects in terms of donations. So we want a specification – which means, which projects and what is actually foreseen in terms of hiring people who have lost their jobs for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13383	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, and then by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The SRS parliamentary group is available for 44 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the past two days and during today's session, the Serbian Radical Party has tried to put the knowledge of the executive government in Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the assembly majority, the essence and root of the problem in which the country's legislative body, the problem in which the country's legislative activity is located, exclusively in the fact that there has been a collapse of the elementary democratic principles, parliamentary principles, i.e. that there has been abuse and an end to the election will of citizens expressed in the 11 May 2008 elections. It is very important to mention these elections, since defining the composition of the delegation refers to the elections held on 11 May. It is also a fact that the actual state of affairs in this parliament does not correspond to the state defined in the RIK report on the basis of the 11 May elections. As long as the Serbian Radical Party doesn't get what the citizens want, I don't think the atmosphere in the legislative area in this country will be any different. Yesterday and yesterday, some tried to impose their presentations on the SRS division. The Serbian Radical Party did not split, the SRS left those who decided to replace their ideologist Vojislav Seselj with some new ideology, the ideology of Ivo Sanader. It's their legitimate and political right. We do not dispute them or resent them, but they have forgotten and taken with them something that certainly represents the property of the SRS, and these are parliamentary mandates. On the basis of this fact, the Serbian Radical Party was denied rights and benefits arising from the number 78. This applies directly to the number of members of the delegation that this parliament will represent in the Council of Europe. Mrs. Comic, you made a statement yesterday or the day before yesterday, but it's no big deal, which I completely agree with. So we must choose a delegation that will represent parliament in the Council of Europe. The step we must take before we can resolve this is to resolve the issue of mandate and the electoral will of citizens in Serbia. The fact that the representatives of most, in this case DS, close their eyes and do not want to face this problem because it is their current political interest does not amnest them to face this problem and to deal with it in the spirit of the Constitution, the law, and, of course, some unwritten rules, which I am convinced many want to act accordingly. That's what all of them or the vast majority of those sitting on this left side feel intimately. On the other hand, however much the Serbian Radical Party insisted on its mandates, individuals who were the culprits of the problem tried to dispute it. That we are right about what we are looking for and that we are entitled to what we are looking for tells us exactly the statement of Tomislav Nikolic in 2005. I think I read it in this room, but it's not bad, for the sake of the public, to hear this again: "No politician in Serbia is responsible for the MP having his mandate, because the SRS won 82 seats. We have to have it any minute. Did Bogoljub Karic win some parliamentary post? No, where did he get it? This is a simple matter, but this is a fundamental question for Serbia, we're at a turning point, I wouldn't have to give up. How can circumstances determine who the mandate belongs to? I guess we don't pay attention to the circumstances, we pay attention to the election results. "When Serbia's mandates are stolen by Bogoljub Karic, then it is immoral, it is a crime, but when Tomislav Nikolic does so, it is done in the spirit of freedom, in the spirit of life, in the spirit of European standards and the rights of MPs sitting in the European Parliament. The Serbian Radical Party and I on behalf of the SRS, all SRS MPs have insisted on this for the past few months. I once again appeal to representatives of the assembly majority to open their eyes and face this problem to facilitate both Parliament and Serbia and all those addressed to this country. If order were to be introduced and the dignity of this home was respected, I am convinced that this would, in principle, be reflected on all the authorities of the executive government, to the last to which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were directed. It is up to you, the biggest responsibility for all that is happening today in parliament, but also in Serbia lies most on DS, and then certainly on the assembly majority. Individuals were trying to defend the dignity of the congregation. They defended the Assembly's dignity against the SRS and its reports in the Rules of Procedure, defending the dignity of the Assembly from Miladin Kovacevic. The Serbian Radical Party believes that today's Parliament's dignity is being defended in a completely different way. For us, defending the dignity of the Assembly and this body is putting a point on the agenda regarding Kosovo and Metohija. This assembly has not adopted any documents relating to Kosovo and Metohija in the past six or seven months. The assembly did not welcome representatives of the assembly majority to come out once in the last two months for this pay phone and ask the executive authority which gave the mandate for two months of tents in front of the Serbian presidency; what has made the workers of the Robe houses come before the Assembly today; what is the problem of "Trudnika"; what is the problem of "Beka"; what is the problem with "Sintello" from Backa Palanka. This defends the dignity of the National Assembly and all of us sitting here, which the people have authorized us to sit here, not from Miladin Kovacevic or the use of business rights. Some have tried to urge us to return the mandate to the warning of some election results in four municipalities. In those four municipalities, in one, where DS and this new party, the European, that advanced party, are to form power, are threatened by the introduction of provisional measures. They're not frames or the job to do. The Serbian Radical Party has never had a problem accepting and recognising election results. You know this well all of you sitting in this House both on the left and right. And when they were pink and black for the SRS, we accepted them. We have been taught that the electoral will of the citizens is intact. I have to admit one more thing, you'll agree with me and you on the left, and for God's sakes, and some right: many have exploited such a principled attitude of the SRS, preserved their victories or their defeats, in any case, the election results from the lowest to the highest level. At the time, the principle of the SRS did not bother anyone. Everyone hailed her or was willing to greet her quietly. Today, because of its principle, the SRS condemns and attacks in the most brutal and inaccessible way. As far as the election results are concerned, that is, the number of MPs that the SRS will have until the first subsequent elections, I repeat, depends solely on the will of the Democratic Party and its willingness to face the problem it has too silently supported, with a problem which will objectively burden this parliament until these elections. As for the number of SRS mandates after the parliamentary elections, which will be when they are, I will end up, for us, whether there will be 100 radicals, 50 radicals or one radical. It is important for us that if one is, for individuals on the political scene in Serbia, this one is a witness to the debauchery, the indiscretionable human, moral and political sun.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13385	Ambassador Srboljub Zivanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to use an article. In 225 and 226, I would ask certain questions to the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm interested in how could imports and distribution of chicken have occurred, over 20 tonnes, from Kosovo and Metohija on the Serbian market? I'm interested, because 890 kilograms of chicken meat has been destroyed, but for these 20 tonnes, it's not known where that meat was found on the market, in the department stores and whether it even came to the Serbian citizens' table. It's very important to ask because I have to tell you that the legs are imported from America and Canada, the file is imported from China, and the other parts of the chicken are imported from Argentina and Brazil, while our chicken producers can't fit into those prices, to say production prices with market prices, they don't know where to place their goods. This once again shows that today there is no control of goods and origin, correctness. I was talking about imports of NPK fertilisers, where three fifteens are written on sacks, and in fact, that quality doesn't have three sixes. It's one big diversion towards agriculture and food producers. What's also very important, last night was one show about how much and how this government imports. Look, 45 million dollars has been spent on imports of various meats, $50 million on imports of southern and other fruit (apple and what we produce), 21 million dollars for vegetables, $10 million for grapes and $260,000 for plums. Ladies and gentlemen, should Serbia import that? Apparently, because there's no freezer, there's no distributor who could take all that stuff that could be found on our market. I'm asking you, why did we destroy our freezers? One of the most modern refrigerators was in Šapec; it was destroyed and served for something else, not for the distribution of food from it. When it comes to tobacco subsidies, you're trying to get these new amendments that are now in circulation and that need to come back to the vote... You have to believe, if there is no change in certain subsidies, tobacco producers will not produce, because without a thousand euros per hectare, as much as there has been for tobacco production, the manufacturer cannot and has no account to fit into that production.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13387	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13388	Mrs. Komic, this is a rare situation when I refer to an article. 225th and 226th, and I'm looking for an explanation, for all of us probably the necessary information, and I hope that you will share my opinion when he hears what this is all about. Last year, the Serbian government tried to help agriculture and set out to provide some amount of NPK fertilizer at regressed agricultural prices. As future agricultural producer, paor, whatever you want to say, Mr. Milivojevic as a graduate agricultural engineer, probably like Krstin, probably like the Serbs, and those others who deal with agriculture or will be engaged in agriculture in the future, which is a good, honorable job, I can't understand that someone can cheat on our peasant. I got a message from a peasant who told me that Minister Sasa Dragin abused a tender and gave the job to a company called Fertil. She's from Backa Palanka, we don't know who owns it, who organizes production, or what she produces, but it's known that 49,000 and some dinars per tonne were sold to the Ministry, the peasants were entitled to some 20 regress, paid another 29,000 per tonne, and at that point the market price was 25,000. Instead of the peasants buying a ton of 5,000, they paid 29,000. In translation it means – do not guard the peasant and protect him in this way. Turns out, based on this letter sent by a peasant, I'll be his future colleague when I retire, I'll be happy to deal with agriculture, it's honorable and my ancestors were... But if you fool the peasants in this way today, and says this peasant - 10m euros is a direct damage to the Republic of Serbia, then, Mrs. Komic, you and I and all of us here in the National Assembly, because of this peasant and those others that are played in this way, we need to get a notice and an explanation from both Minister Dragin and from these committees, and I hope that I will have the understanding and members of the Finance Committee to put this as a part of the agenda, given that public procurement is in some jurisdiction of the Finance Committee, and to clarify who cheats us, steals and who in this way destroys the Republic of Serbia. Please, Mrs. Comic, since I know you're interested in this subject, it's probably interesting to you too who's hiding behind this company, Fertil DoO, who wasn't the best bidder, and she got the job. Who made it possible, if this is true, I don't believe, peasants never lie, I think this is true, and I hope that you support this proposal, too, and that you will advocate that the answer, the explanation, the explanation and the additional information on this security... (President: Four minutes. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13389	People's MP Marina Ragush wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13390	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 226, and somehow it's back to what we've witnessed in recent months. It's a sad finding, we're expressing suspicion, but we're getting closer to the conclusion that what you fought for as former DOS members has forgotten the moment you took the levers of power. That this is true is not just a tendency to polarise the political scene in just two sexes, the tendency to forget the practice and the very nature of the electoral system in Serbia, such as our electoral proportional system, and, of course, amnesia when it comes to basic human rights and freedoms. At this point, I should probably address the chairman of the Committee on the Protection of Human and Minority Rights, but, which is amazing but true, from the five-eyed revolution, the victory of freedom over totalitarianism, as you said, we do not have such a committee in the highest home and the most significant body for a political system. What's this about? Mrs. Komic, I expect a concrete reaction on your part, given that I also follow and read your articles on the Internet and know how much freedom they mean to you. It's just amazing, and I'm going to read now what I think even the ruling coalition's MPs missed and the picture of the Serbian society from the beginning of the 21st century. RATEL came up with a guideline on which he prescribed binding technical conditions for Internet service providers to carry out electronic surveillance of Serbian residents' communications via a global information network. Among other things, RATEL has made this act mandatory to internet providers to provide public authorities responsible for electronic surveillance, firstly BIA, firstly to access and periodically deliver databases on their users, which, in addition to all their personal data, should contain their identification internet addresses; secondly, to allow access to e-mail databases; thirdly, to enable full autonomous passive monitoring of the internet activities of each subscriber, as well as the rerouting of its or its communications; fourthly, to allow interception of e-mail, audio, video, instant and "pear to pear" communication. With this RATEL manual, not that a member of the 41st highest legislative act of the Republic of Serbia has been directly violated, but at this moment all of us have been deprived of our rights and freedoms. This is another image of a democratic society in Serbia. We really expect a very urgent response from the BIA, from the RATEL, you too, Madam Chairman, the Serbian prime minister and a certain explanation to whom it has occurred to oversee what is guaranteed to all of us by Article 41. The Constitution of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13391	Not without a court ruling, but the question you've asked is extremely important, with a court order, every kind of monitoring of electronic data. It is a topic that will await us in the legislative part of the activity, an extremely important topic. I take it as my right only to say that the stenogram of the discussion of the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Marine Ragush is also delivered to the trustee for information and protection of information against public importance and personal data, since it is part of the jurisdiction and on it, except for what you have stated, quite correctly, to be directed. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 104 for what Mrs Gordana Komic said; I am sure she did not do this in a bad way, but I am sure she has no complete information. Mrs. Komic, for the truth's sake, just to remind you, you may have forgotten, I have been asking questions from the assembly speaker on several occasions and publicly asking BIA Director Saša Vukadinovic for some of the actions of the former State Security Service that took place in 2001. I got the answers from the Supreme Court that they didn't give permission to track down a number of people. I also got from the MUP that they no longer have that file, because all the documentation that was previously in the MUP has now gone to the BIA. To this day I don't have a single letter when it comes to three actions that had official names "Swords", "Cactus" and "Shumadi". There are persons who have been followed. I think there's about 46 of them. There are members of the National Security Service who did these jobs. What is particularly important, I repeat, Mrs. Komic, in order for such action or monitoring to occur at all, someone must issue an order and it cannot be an oral order. It is known how this works: a written order is coming, a written order is being deceived; members of the Service to carry out that task are assigned. The collected information is also passed on to those who have sought to follow it, or those who have launched those actions. To this day, there is not a single letter. Then I noted that it was interesting and amazing why there was no answer. I particularly think that the Democratic Party should be interested, because according to the information that I have, if all the facts relating to three operations were shed light, we would probably be able to get some more precise information about the murder of former Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, because, among other things, there are people who were close to him who were under surveillance. It says, and all the time, that someone had extremely precise knowledge and the ability to keep track of where Zoran Djindjic was going all the time. It's just amazing, it's been almost... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm done. The time is important to you, and whoever killed Zoran Djindjic seems to be of no interest to you, and how it came to pass. It's interesting there's not a single letter. Since the BIA report arrived, at the first meeting to discuss the report we expect from BIA Director Saša Vukadinovic that he will then have, I guess, opportunities and opportunities to give us some further explanations and information. I think this, too, if you send him... I demand you send this stenogram so he doesn't come unprepared for that meeting. Thank you and forgive me for overstepping.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13393	We have a problem, since you haven't formally called for a member, and you haven't even called for a violation of any member. The dilemma about what is allowed and in the spirit of humanity to say behind the speaker is not the subject of the Rules of Procedure, so I have a problem explaining, because I cannot, and I am obliged to give you an explanation... But this is what we will do: if and when, as chairman of the Security Committee, you call a meeting of the Committee on the agenda of handling data in electronic transport, the security of electronic data and the role of the judiciary, I will be very happy to attend the meeting of that committee. That's all I can say. The MP says he'll never call a meeting like that. Then we're not, I guess, interested. People's MP Marina Ragush wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13394	Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a very important topic, as you said, Mrs. Komic, for all of us and for our existence in the state of Serbia, it may have eased my concentration, but it seems to me that you said - it can't be without a court order. That's how it's supposed to be. If a state authority assesses that it is important for the State to monitor certain communications, there must be a court order. However, in the RATEL's manual, it does not stand. The RATEL manual says that before your e-mail, or email, comes to you, it goes directly to the BIA, without any court order. If that were true, there is a reaction from the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights. You will allow me to read it so that we have complete information, and therefore, very precisely, ask for an explanation of the competent and spotting actions of the ruling majority. RATEL also obliged internet providers to all of those technical services, including a link to the BIA, and the necessary security equipment. This act by RATEL is contrary to the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights, as well as to the European Convention on Human Rights. We know all that. Therefore, by adopting this act, RATEL has exceeded its competence, the secrecy of communication, which can only be restricted by law and not by sublaw. The act, therefore, contains no provisions on protecting the privacy of Serbian citizens. He does not mention that internet providers can only provide information about their subscribers and their communications to state authorities on the basis of the court's decision. On the contrary, this part is very important, RATEL handing over the keys of the internet in Serbia to the BIA on the cost of internet providers themselves, or their subscribers. The Belgrade Centre for Human Rights, it further said in their statement, is asking RATEL to withdraw its unconstitutional and illegal instruction. Otherwise, the Centre will launch an initiative to assess the constitutionality of this act before Serbia's Constitutional Court. We know absolutely nothing about what happens after, and the official's reaction is completely missing. We live now, I suppose you'll agree, Mrs. Comic, even if they don't say it publicly, in a completely controlled, totalitarian system. Before we think about it, someone's already heard it. We had, Mrs. Komic, a terrible example of the abuse of a congregation server where the e-mail, which Mr. Krasic never wrote, went directly to the address by technical manipulation, on the account of the UN tribunal's spokesman. This is what I'm talking about. Not only are all communications being controlled, but they are also how they can be abused. Let me add just one more question to the authorities: who in Serbia, under what conditions, under what law can own technical equipment to monitor communications? I want BIA to provide us with an accurate report on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13395	The word is issued by MP Bojan Mladenovic, after which the MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, unfortunately, today and these days, we will not have a delegation or representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe because of the irresponsible ruling majority who was unable to choose, organise and send a delegation to a regular session. As for the budget and other various laws, the assembly was also late. Today and these days, we are also late with a motion for a delegation. Why wasn't it done in time? Why are some decisions not implemented when they need to, but are late, especially when it comes to decisions relating to regular events? Such suggestions and similar things can and must always be prepared much earlier. You don't have to wait for the last day. It shouldn't wait for the last minute so that, like these days, Serbia suffers and runs out of representatives in Strasbourg. Ladies and gentlemen, these are serious things and responsible persons should once respond because of these events. Who isn't able and able to do his job right doesn't have to do it. It takes capable people who are able to provide for the selection of delegations, travel on time and in a composition that corresponds to the number of votes won in the elections. It is known how many parties have won votes in the election and the size of that number must be the representation of those parties in the delegations. The parties with the highest number of votes won should have the highest number of members and so on. Representativeship must be respected on the basis of national will, based on the number of votes received. Namely, the SNS did not participate in the elections and therefore has no right and cannot have a representative within these delegations. When the next elections, when they win a number of votes, they will have the right to participate in delegations. Of course, a proportional number of votes will have a corresponding number of members. Until then, they have nothing to ask for neither within these delegations nor within the Committee of the National Assembly, nor have the right to parliamentary mandates in the National Assembly. Let them wait for the elections, it is fair and moral to return something that belongs to someone else, and when they deserve it in the elections, by the will of the citizens, then there will be places for them on all these committees, institutions, etc. Serbian citizens voted in favour of the SRS -- Dr Vojislav Seselj, voted in favour of our programme, voted in favour of our ideology, so the advances cannot be in the places that belong to us. They have other programs, other ideas, contrary to ours. They are no longer interested in the idea of Great Serbia, which we will represent as long as we exist and will never give up on it, because it is the purpose and purpose of our existence, we live for it. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections ended in May last year, here, now January is the month; the entire eight-month ruling majority was unable to elect members of delegations. It was waiting for the Strasbourg meeting to begin, and only then to put it on the agenda here at our home in the National Assembly. That is why our country has lost its representative in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The ruling majority, in addition to this delegation they did not set on time, is also not interested in the position of citizens, who are getting harder and harder every day. New prices, day-to-day gatherings, people without a job, the possibility of the impact of the global economic crisis on our country doesn't concern anyone from the government, nor do they do anything on these very important issues. How long will the workers of the Belgrade Robing Houses seek justice in the park? How long will it freeze? When will someone see them? When will their problems be solved? When will shareholders of Belgrade's Beko configuration be able to collect their actions? They spent their entire working life in a factory, to which they obtained a number of actions, which can't be charged until today. The "Partizanka" factory sold its space, well cashed the same, and the workers remained in debt and unpaid sums could not be settled; the factory was in bankruptcy, took the money, and did not pay its workers. Also, what about citizens who have lost their jobs and are forced to resell things in the Revolution Boulevard to feed themselves and their family? Why is there no greater tolerance for them? Why shouldn't they be allowed a normal job? People have to stand in the cold and rain not to get rich, but simply to feed themselves and their families. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, to conclude, Serbia has no representatives today in the Council of Europe, unfortunately because members of the delegation have not been elected. Today and these days, there will be no word from the Serbian delegation in Strasbourg, which we consider extremely important, because the ruling majority did not do so in time. From May, I will repeat again, until January, the ruling majority was unable to propose, elect and send a delegation to Strasbourg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13397	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13398	Madam Vice President, I am going back to a very important topic, which is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm asking if the Department of Agriculture... I'm sorry I didn't act in accordance with the article before. 225th and 226th to address these members, and I think you're right when you draw attention to the MPs to address them on the basis of the provisions of those members. However, Madam Vice President, I believe that you too are representing this opinion of mys that it is necessary to carry out an audit of the issue in the lease of state agricultural land. Secondly, I ask the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dragin, whether proceedings have been brought before the court against any tenant who uses state agricultural land without any legal basis, a thousand or five thousand hectares. Furthermore, has the Ministry of Agriculture initiated a procedure for forced collection of legally tightened interest? In the light of the provisions of Articles 277 and 279. The law on bond relations, the trustee next to the principal belongs, and has the right to demand, and to tighten legal interest from the day the debtor fell into lateness. It's hundreds of millions of dinars. When it comes to what I get in response from the Ministry of Agriculture, I can tell you that it is incomplete information and simple reports containing information that the Ministry is working on or is or is unable to take appropriate measures. Here's why it's important. How is it possible that Sinisha Radovanchev in Pancheva's atara owes the Republic of Serbia's budget and sleeps peacefully, 765,000 euros without being invited to make a forced payment? Secondly, Miroslav Alex owes 267,000 euros. Furthermore, the AD "Vojvodina - Starcevo" owes 158,000 euros, DOO "Nicko agrar" - Banatski Brestovac owes 111,000 euros, AD "Belovo" owes 117,000 euros. Here's what the ministry said, it says -- we must also point out that some legal persons used agricultural land in state property in 2007. At a bid held in September 2007, they numbered the largest amounts, did not sign the contracts. He comes to the bidding, so it's criminals, giving up the bidding, but the one from the ministry and local self-government takes possession, he takes possession, benefits, and the state doesn't pay. He says - the lease agreements did not want to be concluded, and they continued to use land in 2008. Is that possible? Here it is, "Nicko agrar" - Banatski Brestovac illegally uses 902 hectares of agricultural land in the area of Banatski Brestovac. One still owes that ugly money, so I don't pick them up here, the D.O.O. Kacharevo, that's what I have to say again... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. If I'm out of time, I apologize, you're right, and I'll get back to you, I'll ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13399	The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 27 and 104. The dignity of this home has been injured, as the ruling majority has been harassed for several months by the MPs of the SRS, including you, Mrs Comic, have double standards when applying the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. First of all, we are disturbing you by pointing to the irregular state of the National Assembly, which the responsible structures of the government and the ruling majority support, or do nothing to resolve it in a legal and legal way, so that the reputation of the congregation does not collapse. It is not regular for one party to have two parliamentary groups and to have a party that did not participate in the elections, in accordance with Rule 23 of this Rules of Procedure. For those of you who think they will be the most comfortable in this irregular relationship in the Assembly, I place a burden of responsibility on my soul, because the time of Bodrum, Thessaloniki, waving false plane cards, foreign MP cards, I guess, has passed. The Serbian Radical Party warns that some outside this home are violating the Parliament's dignity, so I ask the ruling majority and the Serbian government why Bozidar Djelic is not punished (because he is not at least who, he is a member of the government) for a statement that the National Assembly is a black hole. Who orders texts in newspapers that the National Assembly and the People's Messengers mud and portray in a negative light? Why, instead of life’s questions, are the media most concerned with the work of the National Assembly making up various false and half - truths? While the budget debate was ongoing, some newspapers were constantly publishing the cost of the Assembly of our people, giving some half - truths as well. For example, you too, Mrs. Comic, were the subject of some speculation in a daily list regarding diaries and receipts. While the government wastes its budget on citizens through your controlled media, false and half-truths are deliberately served. All this points to the conclusion that someone is being disturbed by MPs or at least direct transmissions of the National Assembly meetings, the number of MPs bothers them, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly bothers them, everything bothers them, democracy. Someone would seem to want the state of chaos to continue in Serbia, that we are constantly dealing with ourselves, and that very important things are being promoted to us, such as Eulex, the Statute of Vojvodina, the collapse of our economy, layoffs from work, loss of work, strikes, etc. And the behaviour of our President of the Republic of Tadic goes to order the creation of this picture of the Assembly and the Government. He's all-consuming, all-powerful, doing what's right and wrong, becoming simply irreplaceable. Instead of calling incompetent government and its ministers, he replaces her in the most important affairs. Anything that the Prime Minister and ministers can't do, anything that the directors of public enterprises can't, even though they have salaries for Ginisa, has to be made by Tadic, creates a picture that in Serbia other than him no one is capable of doing anything. (President: Speak for three minutes and thirty seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13401	National MPs, no violation of Article 27, and no member of 104. In your explanation, you have stated that during the Presidency, I have been disturbed by the MPs of the SRS, which is incorrect, and neither can we, while I am chairing (no way) one MP, because I consider myself part of a team of 250 people, by the Constitution of a certain team that has to worry about the general interest. What you are commenting on is an expression of the measure of caution. I don't have a dispute with a man, but I have a dispute with a misdemeanor, and if a crime is committed, then I react to a crime, not a man. Your remark that measures should be made for people outside this congregation is not possible. We can talk about infringements of procedure, we can talk about what's going on in the O.R., but in no way can any chairman express any measures for the statements and actions of people outside this congregation and regarding the congregation. These may be joint statements by the President of the National Assembly and the Vice-President or may be an agreement by the president of the parliamentary groups, if we want to respond to the defence of the institutions that we all belong to together. I repeat, we will be inconclusive if we do not show very clearly that we are capable of obeying our own rules and that these rules apply equally to everyone. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13402	The dignity of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged to respect and be bound by Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and therefore I ask you, Mrs Komic, to act in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure, to determine exactly how many MPs are now in the O.R. Of course, we know there's no obligation, that you've made such a rules of procedure where it's not mandatory for MPs to sit in the hall, it's enough for the chairman to speak from this place. When this Rules of Procedure was brought in, we talked about it. Now I've done something I don't normally do because I'm always sitting in my seat. You can see that on this board, it's like there's a card in my place and it's my name and name in the place where I'm sitting, and it's in my hand. It was obviously done by a large number of MPs of the ruling coalition, because according to this, the hall on this side is almost filled, and apparently, here are now four people, that there were only seven or eight, top ten, on the side of the ruling coalition. This is incorrect in relation to the citizens of Serbia, compared to us MPs who respect the Rules of Procedure and who act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am surprised that you, Mrs. Komic, who are otherwise very zealous when it comes to the application of the Rules of Procedure, sometimes pay no attention to these details and do not draw attention to the MPs. At the same time, I was paying attention to this article, that the MP should be obliged to carry his identification card when he leaves this room; they are now obviously doing this, but by carefully pulling that card out on this table, and it is actually showing a false state, as if they were present. Speaking of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly and of Article 104, we know, Mrs Komic, that you are presenting the political position of the DS, I must also draw your attention to the political position of the SRS, which is absolutely in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia; you just said that there are 250 MPs sitting here with the same rights and obligations - here sits 229 MPs and another group that only you recognise as MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13403	National MPs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have 250 MPs, confirmed mandates, with all rights and responsibilities arising from the status of the confirmed mandate. The situation with respect for the Rules of Procedure brings me back to what I have already said twice. We will act inconclusively seeking equal application of the law for everyone if we are unable to demonstrate in direct transmission that we want to obey our own rules. Members of the Rules of Procedures which regulate the obligations of MPs when it comes to the use of cards are very clear and mean that each MP – it is not only an obligation under the Rules of Procedure, that is the position you have according to that identification, which is all but one piece of a plasticised chart that you identify yourself with – therefore, each MP shows respect for this institution by caring for his own card. This applies to the determination of the quorum, it applies to the respect of members who are prescribed to vote and is valid for the moments when each MP enters and exits the hall. There is a People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, quite right, except for creative evidence, since she demonstrated how a member of the Rules of Procedure was violated as she showed that there was a breach. I can only ask you to keep us conscious that only by example that we can obey our own rules can we show that we care about this institution. On the basis of Article 85(5), I would like to inform the National Assembly that today we will be working after 1800 hours, according to the agenda that we will discuss at that time, and no more than 20.00 hours. Since we started at 13.00 hours, we'll take a break after 1800 hours, so when we see what point we're discussing at that point. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13404	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, with careful reading of the motion for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, I have come to the conclusion that this proposal should be withdrawn from the agenda primarily for formal and material reasons. For what? Because of the fact that in Article 83. The Rules of Procedure say that the draft agenda of the National Assembly can only include the proposals for acts prepared in accordance with the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure. This Rules of Procedure in Article 239(2) clearly states that the proposal for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations referred to in Article 1 of this Article is submitted by the President of the National Assembly, as it has done, in consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. Yes, Madam President of the Assembly has called for Article 239, but the act itself does not comply with Article 239, and hence, with the name and name of the proposed member of any of these delegations, it is said that a relative representation of political parties and gender representation in the composition of delegations has been taken into account in the proposal. So it's either one or the other. The reasons are certainly in line with the Rules of Procedure, but the preparation of the act itself and the content of the act does not comply with the Rules of Procedure. The fact that I am the President of the National Assembly is a little awkward and awkward now is the fact that the act is being delivered by the President of the National Assembly, so it would have to return the act itself, but simply, it has fallen into such a situation or by neglect of those who prepared the act, or by their indiscretion, or perhaps on purpose, in agreement with those political parties in this House who wanted to enter those who did not participate in the elections at any cost. When we talk about stealing a mandate, we are not saying this because the Serbian Radical Party is much stronger or much weaker if it has 21 mandates more or less, than because it is essential, I think, in democracy, that the electoral will of citizens is respected. Serbian citizens were stolen, not the SRS. For the protection of Serbian citizens, we are so demonstrating our disagreement with everything that is now being done, and can be explained precisely through this act that is currently in the process. I thank and forgive for the extension of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13405	The material was made in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure and thus came into the agenda. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13406	Madam Vice President, here, and Mr Batic, according to his mood, actually expresses that this Parliament is working under normal, approximately conditions today. So do I, and in relation to my engagement today in the National Assembly, I think I have respected both you and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Madam Vice President, I have just pointed out that it is necessary for the Ministry of Agriculture to take appropriate measures with the Ministry of Interior and to launch an audit and control of the conclusion of a contract on the lease of state agricultural land. I request a notice, in terms of the provisions (so I must appeal and apologize for not mentioning it at the beginning) of Articles 225 and 226, directly from Mr Sasa Dragin, the Minister of Agriculture, who is taking appropriate measures, but these measures are insufficient, how many court proceedings for the termination of the contract on the lease of state land are launched. In the light of the provisions of Articles 277 and 279, how much action has been brought in the litigation procedure. The law on bond relations, that, apart from the principal debt owed by those who trespassed and illegally used, they usurp state agricultural land... So, against how many such persons have the Ministry of Agriculture initiated proceedings and damages charges, and on the other hand, for the charge of the principal? Third, the third motion must be to hand over the property. The first claim in the lawsuit is, above all, the payment of the principal, the second claim in the same suit is the payment of the legal interest and the third is the handover of the property. Those three things in one lawsuit have to be seen to go... There is Mr Batic, he will also be able to confirm whether this is the case under the Law on Prosecution Procedure, under the Law on Liabilities and the Law on Tight Legal Interest. So, no more bypassing around here, no more interruptions here. As of today, action must be made here, but the Joint Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Agriculture, by making sure not to bypass the chairman of a commission to rent agricultural land on the local ground, i.e. In local self-government. There is room for criminal proceedings against such persons who have concluded harmful contracts. So I have to draw attention, and the Ministry of Agriculture has sent me a report... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. Just two sentences, so I don't come back again, I apologize. I received a report from the Ministry of Agriculture, which it found in its table - Miroslav Alexa took 208 hectares of state agricultural land, was obliged to pay the rent, so much for his lease, 288,000 euros. He only paid 16,000 euros. The ministry says he owes far, far more, more than 250,000 euros. Why doesn't the Government provide these funds for the budget? Whose assets are these? These are the funds of our citizens, these are the funds of the Republic of Serbia. Criminals can't use them anymore, they need to get this back to normal and bring the rule of law back to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13407	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13408	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, and at the same time I can advertise Article 104(1). We have been witnessing for the past few days, I would say freely and for the past few weeks, that it has culminated in the irresponsibility and inability of the ruling majority to lead this assembly, and in the end, to lead the state. There is a willingness to close your eyes to every problem and wait for this problem to pass itself, and a lack of preparedness to deal with some problems and solve the problem. I think it's a very good event when you run this assembly, Mrs. Comic. I followed closely, after Mrs Dušanka from the SRS, and after another MP of that party who spoke you spoke straight for five minutes; you turned the same sentences three or four times, trying to take time to get all this out by Friday, so Friday would be a vote. Because you don't know what to do, you don't have any plan. I don't mean specifically you, the ruling majority doesn't have any plan. We have dozens of European laws waiting for, or law that should contribute to Serbia's rapid approach to the EU, waiting either in the government or here. We have the Statute of Vojvodina waiting to follow the law of jurisdiction and has been running for several months here in the Assembly. We have a situation in front of... I really don't want to abuse the torment of those people who were today, but that's what my colleague Nikolic from the DSS spoke about, in front of the Serbian Parliament, people who used to work at the Belgrade Robing Houses and who just wanted to schedule a Privatisation Committee and try to get some answers, hoping that someone would try to solve their problems. We also had a Committee on Industry today. It included representatives of a metal complex union with concrete requirements. One of these requirements, which is why I reported in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, is - who and how will handle it, or help bring about the damage they suffered from the gas crisis? So, in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, I ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic when we will get an answer to who and how will damage this country's industry, in the extreme context and a metal complex that has suffered terrible losses due to the gas crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13409	People's MP Marina Ragush wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13410	So on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. I also use constitutional members who, like you, Mrs. Komic, are well noticed, we should all respect and try to guard them with our own behavior: Article 23. The constitution, in terms of human dignity, which is uncut and everyone is obliged to respect and protect it. Everyone has the right to freely develop a person, unless it violates the rights of others guaranteed by the Constitution. Article 24 also states that human life is incomparable. Article 25 speaks of physical and psychological integrity, which is also unhurtful. After the presentation of the lady, actually, colleague Dusanka Plecevic gave an explanation that I really liked, I just don't know why there was any lack of reaction to any destruction of the integrity of the MPs of this home. To be precise, it's about writing funds for public information. What predicts freedom of the media and drags down certain rights also brings down certain responsibilities. I have had the opportunity to read only Mrs Trivan's reaction from your party, Mrs Comic, who responded to scandalous writing, I fully agree with it, as regards the performance of your post as vice president of this House. But apparently, this reaction is directed only to protect the dignity of certain individuals. I, too, Mrs Comic, firstly expected you to react or come to a political agreement, firstly, to examine who are journalists who in the most brutal way are destroying the psychological and physical integrity and dignity of certain people, MPs, public figures, who are tried without a process, where the presummation of innocence is trampled; what are the editorials and who are these tycoons who order certain writings in certain media. Some of us have a journalistic experience and they know very well that when it comes to very important political topics, and below a certain article are signed by journalists with initials or editorials, that it is a contracted text and that this text costs several thousand euros, depending on what you want to achieve, depending on what personality you want to destroy, not thinking that these people have their families, their integrity and that they should normally live in Serbia. Also, the terrible inscriptions concerning the assassination attempt on Mr Nikolic, ordered by the SRS president from The Hague, are a flagrant violation of all constitutional principles. The president of the SRS is not an MP, he is not a member of this parliament, but also so that we as the SRS, whose president he is, should know who the journalists who so ordered things are and who the media, for whose interest, are doing so. Also, on the front page of a daily list was the president of the LDP, the terrible writings. It could have been a simple motive for any, conditionalally speaking, mentally disturbed man to end up on the basis of an inscription with Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Marash, too, or any of you. So what the SRS requires of you, Mrs. Komic, is that you from the ruling majority who really care about the dignity of this assembly make sure that these things are resolved very quickly. Why is this done, why is there a campaign to collapse the integrity and dignity of the Assembly in the media? I'm really only talking about the subject right now. If the climate is created that we are all equal and that you protect each and every one of us, we will make sure that we escort that climate because we know that we are protected. We won't need to fight with the last atom of strength and freedom just for our dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13411	National MP Marko Milenkovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure request a notice from Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic on the results of the privatisation of the Fiaz factory in Prokuplje, companies for the production of asbestos tiles, pherods and various kinds of asbestos yarns. In Serbia only Mladenovac had a factory of such a type, and pro-Fiaz worked for the largest state-owned companies: Railway, "Serbiatrans", "Lastu", "The flag", "Nish Express". It is interesting that Fiaz produced and exported from the state at the time of the highest sanctions and that 1,100 workers were paid and supported by their families. In addition, Fiaz had quality technology and was a respectable economic factor in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. The number of workers was then halved after 5 October and reduced to 550, all by the management of democratic directors and bankruptcy directors until April 2003. Then failed privatisation was carried out, by certain Miroljub Aleksic and Mirko Obradovic. The process of production has been halted, and a procedure for the termination of privatisation contracts has been launched, of course, all because of the non-domestic business and failure to fulfil the acquired obligations of the majority owner. All these years ago, they were filled with occult actions and the dissatisfaction of workers who watched their company degrade and destroy, and their colleagues fired from work. They fought men, as much as the national government allowed them to. The procedure was then initiated at the competent trade court for the removal from the register of the majority owner and the return of the company to its previous situation. Of course, the Trade Court has not been celebrated by resolving this dispute, so the company Fiaz has gone bankrupt from bankruptcy to bankruptcy and, as I hear, is waiting for privatisation again. So, I'm asking the Prime Minister for a notice on the results of the privatisation of once-successful fiaz shopping after several unsuccessful attempts at a court dispute, a destroyed production process, and the layoff of people from work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13413	The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13414	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, members of 225 and 226. I'd like to ask the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Justice. I stopped by one of our famous bookstores today to buy a book called "The Testimony of Carla del Ponte," because I intend to give some friends. It is the famous bookshop "Nikola Pasic" in the Square of Nikola Pasic where I found a really painful scene – some people, without any warrant, present themselves as court perpetrators, accompanied by police patrols measuring the bookstore, stretching a meter with some laser meter, measuring the basement, ceiling, etc. It's a very disturbing situation. They moved in, like it was theirs. I'm going to go ask some questions about what's going on and get some amazing information. Information is such that in the first degree, Serbia managed to defend its space. In the second degree, Serbia lost its space. The whole case is currently in the Supreme Court. However, some people, representatives of a bank, accompanied by police and court, came and wanted to take that place before the process was completed. By chance, I know people who work there, all those events that happen. The location has been very good, in downtown Belgrade, and since the mid-90s, since Marko Milosevic wanted to build a car salon there, until today's various tycoons and "typhoons" want to blow off an extraordinary cultural centre in downtown Belgrade, and to import cars or open banks there. I have a variety of solutions here, where so far in the process, the Atlas Bank appeared, and today my lawyer presented himself as a representative of the Piraeus Bank. Apparently, some tycoons, who cross over because of their work and their enormous profits from some organization to another, and some of their ideas, some of their ideas and some of their interests are passed along with them. Because of certain events that occur there and the disturbances that exist, and a large number of people who buy in that bookstore, who are interested in staying in that space, those people who have been working in that space for 30-40 years simply want to respect what is in the process until the end. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Justice how is it possible for the state to lose interest and lose interest in the dispute for its space? I ask the Minister of Culture the question: if you let the bookstores move in, and they close every day, and you move into their places and into their space the casinos and banks, especially the sides, we start to look like Las Vegas, and by the number of bookstores we'll go down to the level of the 19th century in a few months, where does the policy of the Ministry of Culture that doesn't want to protect those cultural centres like the bookshop "Nikola Pasic"? Please respond as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13415	The word is by MP Zoran Popovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13416	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, because I need certain information from the competent ministry in order to continue to serve as MP and to protect the interests of the workers of the company Podja Ljig and all citizens of Ljig municipality, from which I come, who gave their vote in the last elections to the Serbian Radical Party. First of all, I would like to introduce the public to the financial business of Pobeda before privatisation and after the privatisation process, where Zelemir Jolovic, brother of the arrested lawyer Nemanje Jolovic, who was designated one of the organisers of the bankruptcy mafia, appears as a buyer. When it comes to the Jolovic brothers, the "grobars" of the Serbian economy, Želimir, what he wished for in Ljig, it was also obtained thanks to the DOS system which was established in Serbia after 5 October 2000. Namely, the privatisation initiative "Pobed" before the Privatisation Agency was launched on January 23rd 2004, and previously since 2001, "Poseda" has been prepared for destruction. In 2001, the company's debts amounted to only 2.3 million dinars, and in 2002 these debts increased to 12.4 million dinars. Already in 2004, when a privatisation initiative was launched, the annual net loss amounted to only 790,000 dinars, in order to end business in 2005 with a loss of as much as 4,154,000 dinars. In late December 2005, Jolovic bought the company and in 2006 reduced the loss to 1,299,000 dinars, in order to increase losses more than they had made before the final privatisation. Thus, "Winning" in 2007 records a net loss of 4.24,000 dinars, while business revenues from 20 million in 2004 decrease to 11 million in 2007. As the brothers Jolovic and their director, Predrag Mutavčić, otherwise a member of the coded G 17 Plus party, are doing business, the best seen in the report, which was created by the private auditory house Euro Audit from Belgrade, which dates back to July 7th 2008. Among other things, the independent auditor's report said that the company "Winning" did not define an accounting policy based on current accounting and audit regulations, international accounting standards and international financial reporting standards. It is further stated that by the end of 2007, properties, plants and equipment were not assessed at fair and fair value, in line with international accounting standards, which is why auditors could not give their expert opinion. At the end of this report, it is said that auditors were unable to attend the physical inventory of stocks with condition on 31st day. 12. In 2007, because the list was carried out before the auditors were hired, there was no possibility for auditors to be sure of the exact quantities and supplies of the company. Due to this confusion of the company's buyer "Pobed" from the Ministry of Economy and Mladjan Dinkic, I demand that he answer me the following parliamentary question: how many times since 27 December 2005 has the Privatisation Agency controlled the implementation of the state purchase agreement and the buyer of the company "Pod" from Ljiga Želimir Jolovic? Two, what is stated in these controls, has the buyer so far fulfilled all the obligations arising from the purchase contract for the company "Posed" from Ljiga?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13417	People's MP, you can't ask a parliamentary question. I ask that the stenogram states that the MP requires information and information. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13418	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I have to call on several members of our Rules of Procedure, first of all Article 27, but there are also Article 160, and Article 136, and that member who has been the subject of our debate for several days, and that's Article 239. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When I say Article 239. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mrs Comić, I do not mean the version of our Rules of Procedure since June 2005, the consolidated text, but I mean that version that happens if they are taken and amended and added to that decision from September 2006, which is all in that big book that you have, which says "Employee of the National Assembly", near the end of that booklet. I get the impression you didn't understand me very well a few days ago. I tried the simplest way to explain something that wasn't hard to determine. Article 239... Here, and Mr. Moma Colakovic understood what it was about, my friends from the PUPS parliamentary group, my friends from the DS, those who are sitting here, and they are familiar with that and share my opinion, in this assembly all share the opinions that I am about to deliver. If in 2007, when Mr Dulic was President of the National Assembly, on 13 June 2007, he allowed the National Assembly to decide to choose, establish the composition of nine delegations, as we are now doing, and to set the criteria or, to be precise, something that must stand in the decision is the name and name of the MP... So we have to be absolutely sure of all the names that are listed in the motion for a decision that they are MPs. The other thing that is very important is to indicate which party belongs to the gentleman or the lady. The third thing is his status in the delegation, whether he will be a member or a deputy member. If it could have been done in 2007, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure (I must remind you, the Rules of Procedure have not been changed since 2006 until today, nothing has changed), there is no legal reason for the motion for a decision to now stand in addition to the name and last name of the proposed candidate to be the name of any parliamentary group. Because like this, Mrs. Comic, it turns out that you convince me that Vlajko Senić is a member of the SPO, which he is not, he is a member of G 17 plus. And in election results and what is available to the public, in all the regulations that apply, after the 11 May elections have been completed... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm sorry, I don't want to ruin this beautiful camera atmosphere where the debate is going. Mrs. Comic, I would recommend that you move this, this could be a dangerous tool, so that you don't challenge someone here, and then there might be bigger problems. You move this bottle, let's just have a glass here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13419	If you're going to treat a bottle of acidic water as an idea for a cold weapon, then I don't know what we're talking about in the National Assembly, but I'm pretty sure it's just a successful ending of your exposure in which, unfortunately, you were wrong, because it's not broken either in Article 27, nor in Article 160, or 136. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask one very important, perhaps one of the most important questions of the Ministry of Labour and Labour – how to protect workers from private entrepreneurs? Many times it happens that a private worker, with new employers, works for several years and only when he wants to change his employer finds that he was not retired and disabled, or that the privateer did not pay PIO, not even health insurance. Sometimes it happens that this health insurance is being paid, because it has certain manipulative actions, the privateer can also pay the money and thus deceive the worker who believes that he has paid PIO for it. Who's the worker supposed to talk to? These unions that are allegedly free, independent, as they are already named, are in most cases dealing with privates, tycoons, or people in power, so that the worker does not have the opportunity to address the union or anyone else in order to exercise his rights. If he addresses labour and labour inspections, then in most cases they transfer that ball to another side and the worker has no opportunity again, and that period that he spent with a private person usually fails or does not enter the years of work. The second question I wanted to ask was a question for the Ministry of Health. There are a lot of cases where citizens can't use services in hospitals. This is especially related to certain X-ray devices where certain diagnostics are required, and in most cases these diagnostic apparatus are invalid. Who has the ability to elaborate on the correctness of these apparatus? It happens that a specialist doctor directs a patient into some kind of private diagnostic office where a citizen has to pay for these services, with a large sum of money. It usually happens in certain laboratories where blood tests are required. The third question I wanted to ask the Ministry of Agriculture – when will the fourth remaining part of the agricultural pensions be paid? The fourth part wasn't paid to farmers, it was promised to be paid through budget rebalances, but that didn't happen. Privates usually ask us at the MP offices to ask the Ministry of Agriculture here at the Assembly's pay phone... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... When will the last tranche of leftover pensions that the peasants did not receive be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13421	People's MP, you didn't list a member of the Rules of Procedure you're referring to. (Serboljub Zivanovic: 225 and 226) Two things have to be fixed in a stenogram to make any sense of exposure. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for pensions, not the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Labour and Labour does not exist, but there is a ministry in the Ministry's Law, so please, MPs, if we are already using the right to be told that... National MP Srboljub Zivanovic insists he does not know which ministry to address. The obligations of the MP, which arise from the status of the confirmed mandate of the MP, mean that you know exactly what the ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are called, as ministers are called in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is responsible for what you are talking about, and that is to safeguard the dignity of the National Assembly. Please take care of the next time you ask to speak by the right to receive words on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because if we do not, we will share in a completely unconvinced way that we really want to control the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Government. People's MPs earn not to know the address. It is also the obligation of the MPs to know where the addresses of those they wish to control are found. If they don't know, there's a secretary of the National Assembly who'll let you know. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, you've begun to interpret certain regulations well, but when it comes to the laws, regulations and legal order, I would like to point out that you should keep in mind, that you should not interfere with the mind, first of all, the active legitimacy of representatives of the National Assembly to represent the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Parliament in international organisations. Active identification in front of the SRS for 78 MPs has, above all, the SRS and its 78 MPs from its electoral list. So, so much for that. I also support your efforts to respect certain laws, regulations and legal order, but I also ask the coalition in power to bring order to parliament and to really respect the parliament and political parties that participated in the elections. In this way we can have one parliamentary policy and we can represent the country as we should and prove to other institutions that approximately the state should function, especially when it comes to the Republic's parliament. Madam Chairman, please, I wanted to ask on behalf of the citizens of the inhabited cities of Kovin, and the populated towns of Pločica, Skorenovac, Bavaranište, Mramorak, Delibreto, Šumarac, Gaj, Mali Bavanište and Beli Breg, what is the status of pasture and sluice for these inhabited places, who uses them and on what legal basis? Furthermore, I would just like to draw attention and ask Mr. Dragin's Minister of Agriculture for information, because I think he will use his authority and will be able, through the competent inspections of his ministry, to actually exercise control and verify the place and deliver it to the National Assembly, or to give us a notice. Here is an example that is very unfavourable for the citizens of Bavanište: namely, the local community of Bavanište, represented by President Marinkovic Srboljub, concluded a contract with the company for the production, transport and provision of services "Eshabe" DOO, Belgrade and under the contract the local community issued 42 hectares of pastures and mornings. The Law on the return of mornings and pastures to villages to use, "The Official Messenger of Serbia", No. 16/92, states in Article 9, that change and other forms of availability on land transferred to villages for use, except for the construction of ponds. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13423	National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13424	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was away for a while. I went to the office and looked at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe's website on what is happening there today and what is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. I am advocating Article 1 and Article 239(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Under Article 1, which regulates the rights and obligations and work of the National Assembly, I have been disabled as a member of the Serbian delegation and as a member of the Serbian delegation to take part in the vote on the resolution on the consequences of the Russian-Georgian war at the moment. I point out this because of the fact that the Serbian delegation, though not throughout last autumn, had an active part in the vote on this resolution, because Mr. Konstantin Kosačev, the head of the Russian delegation, as well as all MPs of the Russian State Duma, had major objections to this resolution because of the fact that Russia was defending its right and its order and using constitutional powers, which are still a sacred letter, unlike us here, did everything possible for their representatives to be authentic representatives of state policy. Not only that, Mrs Comic, I must tell you, since Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic sent a letter on 16 January and informed the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe which are MPs who will represent our delegation and confirmed their legitimacy on Monday 26. ... She noted this, and now I have looked again at the letter she sent to the Secretary-General and the President of the Parliamentary Assembly, that the schedule by committees remains the same. I must, for the sake of truth, say that I am the only member of our delegation who actively participates in the work of the Committee on Economics and Development, and tomorrow is on the agenda, in an emergency procedure, considering the global financial crisis and helping citizens in this regard. How can you now say that you are serious, that the serious coalition that rules this country, and the prime minister, and the minister of finance, the vice-president of the government, is where we need to discuss what has happened to the whole world and how the Serbs in all of this are to meet and bring our views to the Committee in plenary discussion, or debate that tomorrow, as I see in this amended agenda, will last in the morning and afternoon, eventually result in the vote of some resolution, when we are not there? For what? Because of the democratic party's will. This is indeed a scandal, which is causing great damage to our country, especially because of the fact that the Spanish Foreign Minister, chaired by the Committee of Ministers, has today addressed the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe at 12 o'clock. If we could have been a delegation, so party representatives per group to participate in... The Serbian Radical Party has not yet been registered in these political groups, we have applied to be in the EDG group, there has even been a change in the president of the group, but we cannot do the work that the Assembly and the National Assembly have authorized us to do. We have to keep the public informed that you actually led Serbian citizens astray when you said you wanted to help them, that you wanted to develop this country and that it is equally integrated into the world. You obviously don't want to. That's all the SRS wants, respecting the Constitution and caring for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13425	National MPs, no violation of Article 239(2). The current agenda item shall run in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladan Jeremic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago, on the basis of the rights that I have under Article 226. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, asked for a notice, and I will do so again now, from the Ministry of Trade and the entire cabinet of Mirko Cvetkovic whether an appropriate package of economic measures is being prepared to stop the consequences of the wave of collection directly affecting the difficult standard of living of the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The answer, of course, wasn't, and unfortunately, the confirmation of what I said and then said from day to day just gets to the point. In the meantime, there was also an increase in the fuel price by 8.25%, and soon we are expected to see those additional six dinars per litre. It is also approaching February 1st when the price of urban transport in Belgrade will be increased by about 30%. I will remind only that the price of the phone pulse has increased by 33% since the beginning of the year, and the only reaction to the announced 18% and 22% gas price purchases, respectively, was that this will certainly not happen before April. Very encouraging, if excluded from the view that January is at the end, that February is the month with the minimum number of days, and that between the remaining is the only March. Today, the dinar also recorded a record low in value compared to the euro; the average official rate is 96.33 dinars, if I'm not mistaken, and it's obvious that it's only a matter of days when the scale will be torn down on those psychological 100. As for job layoffs, despite those recommendations with Saturday's prey, it's continued daily. They were left out of work 350 in the Damjanovic Meat Industry over the past week, and a large number of households in the suburban Belgrade municipalities, including Mladenovac, were cut off by electricity due to unmistakable accounts that people simply had no place to pay, because they no longer work. I am also interested in why the views of the finance minister in the Serbian government and the governor of the NBS on IMF funds differ, i.e. on the use of them. So it is obvious that there has been a real decline in profits, namely that inflation is threatening to keep Serbia first in this infamous indicator in Eastern Europe. If life could not wait before the May elections, it is obvious that citizens can no longer wait for the concrete measures of the Serbian government to take on what I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13427	The word has a folk MP Milan M. Nikolic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13428	Dear People's MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. These days you read in the paper, the disturbance of citizens refers to Koseric, where the cement is. I've received a memo from the citizens and I'd like to inform you and request a notice from the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It's about the next one. The Environment Ministry and the Association of cementers signed a memorandum of understanding in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce on 22 December 2008 defining the way waste is used. The plant industry will be able to use about 25,000 tonnes of waste car and tractor tyres annually, then about 350,000 tonnes of product materials from Sartide, as well as significant quantities of parallel products in the meat industry. By switching to burning municipal waste cementers, in addition to current emissions of carcinogenic heavy metals, will emit into atmospheres and dioxins, which do not stop any filters. For information only, the Ministry has admitted that there are no devices in our country that can measure the emissions of dioxins. In addition to causing cancer, dioxins destroy the vital functions of human and animal reproductive organs, cause sterility, gene damage, especially in male fetuses, hormonal disorders, growth disorders, immune system disorders, brain damage and abnormalities in newborn children. Dioxin is one of the memos of defoliants, the means of destroying vegetation, especially the people that Americans used in Vietnam. This dioxin today, like 30 years ago, poisons the food chain, causes anomalies in children, metal retardation and others. He says – we ask the government and the MPs to take all measures and prevent Titan from cementing in its criminal activity, aimed at a huge increase in profits to the health and property of the local population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13429	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I appeal to the article. 225th and 226th, and I'll be, as you wish, hopefully, quite precise. I refer, namely, two questions, direct and clear, to the President of the Assembly. I might as well be Mr. Micunovic, but it's only enough for the president of the Assembly. My first question is: who is and on what grounds did he misinformed the representatives of the Council of Europe that Tomislav Nikolic was a member of the SRS? The evidence I am referring to is document 11792 of the Council of Europe, which is the president's report, where exactly under the Serbian delegation says Mr Tomislav Nikolic is a Serbian Radical Party. I'm asking a written answer, so I asked who it was and why... Maybe it's just plain sloppyness, maybe impeccableness, maybe ignorance, and maybe it's about intent, so I'd like to know how it happened. Next, who and why is spreading alarming and false information that members of the newly established SNS are members of the SRS? This is now removed from the National Assembly site, to convince you, Mrs. Komic, you love precision and clarity: a certain Mr. Babić Zoran, writes - the party SRS, his picture, and the man himself is in wonder where he is a member of the SRS. Here, little and large, you see the badge that we carry Serbian radicals. Let the messengers of the people see, you see the expression of the wonder and the perplexity of a man who has found himself in wonder. Who's in charge of that? Professional services may have been wrong, they are wrong, but you are still the ones who are in charge of the congregation's duties to respond to this. I beg your written answers, clear, to these questions of mine. You, Mrs. Komic, have the custom of explaining our statements extensively, you want to inform us, to teach us often, so of course you can, if you think you can answer these questions, to help us. It is clear, Mrs. Comic, that you will remain remembered as the first chairman who mass-punished 13 MPs of the SRS, served his revenge, and yesterday I tried to tell you that taking you as your right to be judge is not even allowed by the Rules of Procedure by any human criteria. I'm ending it, I know I'm going to go over there for a second, and I swear to you with my honor that Lydia Dimitrijevic, who you punished, didn't bang while you gave her that sentence even before you gave that sentence. You say you see everything. You can't see when an MP on this side swears on his mother Krasic and extra when she says something. You can't see when someone's pulling. So you're not all-powerful. You're not the judge who should judge everything. Thank you. I'm sorry I've been so long.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13431	By strict application of the Rules of Procedure, I would have the obligation to give you a warning 45 seconds longer than the Rules of Procedure, and I can offer this as proof that it is only the application of the Rules of Procedure and for me an unpopular and unpleasant measure, but there are no violations and then there are no Rules of Procedures. When an offence is such that in the interests of our common institution, therefore, in the interests of the National Assembly, it is no longer tolerated, only then do I resort to it, in every parliament in the world unpopular and then express it. Only in those cases. You can go through the stenograms of all the sessions I chaired. I only say the measures in cases where a violation of the MP or MP is such that it threatens the institution where we are and that it crosses the line of hatred towards the institution. Otherwise, I believe that parliamentary practice, that the quality of this institution is being built by our mutual agreement and awareness that we are at work together. That is why I will never give any warning, or warning for an extension of 45 seconds, a minute or how long the MP speaks longer than is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. We should learn self-control and talk for three minutes, but I wouldn't do that anyway. National MP Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and I am requesting a reply from the competent Justice Ministry, or from Minister Ms Malovic, whether the Ministry of Justice can order the tribunal's secretary to review all phone conversations of Dr Vojislav Seselj...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13433	Excuse me, People's Parliament, MP Srboljub Zivanovic throws me a curse. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, you allowed yourself the incident at the end of the session, the day after the session ended and the address I cannot repeat. Now I find myself in a very rude way, so I can see very clearly, you're speaking to the swearing with a request that you want to know if you've been noticed and written down that you're asking to talk about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Every MP who's ever been on the market has been given a word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and so have you, however many times you wish during today's working day, but I will not allow you to humiliate this congregation across the border, so I ask you to behave yourself. This is the last warning measure I give you, because you already have two warnings. People's MPs Gordana Paunovic, I'm sorry for the interruption, but this is a thing that will not be tolerated. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13434	The question for the competent minister, Mrs Malovic, is whether he can give me an explanation or an answer as to whether the Ministry of Justice can order the tribunal's secretary to review all phone conversations by Professor Vojislav Seselj in the past four months and to announce to the public whether there are any clues in these discussions that Professor Vojislav Seselj has imposed on anyone to kill himself. Djac, with Vukic as commander, is making every effort, with huge media support, to discredit Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj and to make it difficult for him to be in The Hague anyway, just in the period when the tribunal is preparing the trial for contempt of the court, due to alleged pressure on witnesses, blackmail, etc. That fact was confirmed by Dr Vojislav Seselj himself at the trial on January 8th of this year when he pointed out: "I don't think this was accidentally placed to order someone's murder, because in public it creates a picture of the man who is ready for it. "Nicic and Vukic in a dirty media campaign make heavy and unrealistic accusations that their lives are threatened by a man who will be 24. This year's 2nd full six years in the detention of The Hague tribunal, in the Netherlands, thousands of miles away from Belgrade, where all calls on the phone are censored, or tapped, to which all procedural and human rights are violated daily. It is also fair to return the mandates to the Serbian Radical Party, which was given the will of citizens in the 11 May 2005 parliamentary elections. With the crack and attempt to break the SRS and the release of its president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, 20 mandates were kidnapped. Because of Serbian citizens who voted in the elections for the Serbian Radical Party, which has never deceived them, which has never lied to them, the SRS insists that these mandates return to its parliamentary club as soon as possible. Dear Serbian citizens, I would like to inform you once again that the SRS is an immortal party and that what was tried to do to it and what happened in the party did not weaken the SRS at least, on the contrary, we came out stronger and stronger, and the party was cleansed from immoral traitors. The Serbian Radical Party will never deceive you or lie to you in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13435	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to use an article. 225 and 226. I'd like to ask the Rules of Procedure a question concerning the Ministry of Finance. It is related to the audit institution, and you know well that here we have requested that audit institutions, both at the level of the Republic and at the level of local self-government, conduct analysis and control of final accounts. I must honestly say, the other day, the three of us MPs, from the SPS, from the DS, and my smallness, were on the TV Shabatz on "Poligon." The manager kept trying to provoke us by asking for an answer, but we didn't give her an answer, how much our journals and salaries were. However, the manager did not want to ask the question or to answer the pay of the director of this media house and many directors of public enterprises in Šapec, because if it were to be then to find out how the director of this media house, who came from a suitcase four years ago, now has his apartment and his "flot" car, and this public company is in a big dubio. Here, you can see how the MPs in the assembly are exposed. We're actually looking for the transparency of the work of this DOS government from 2000 to today. You know well that no final account, such as the account at the Republic's budget level, and at local level, in local self-government, could possibly be found out that the taxpayers' money was used and spent. You know well how and how many abuses occurred, how many ministers came with a suitcase and now they are big tycoons and big rich people in Serbia. This should be seen, this should be reconsidered, because here are the people who were in office of the privatisation minister and the finance minister, who probably abused their position because it is impossible that with the salaries they have and with the capital they did not have, they have not plowed or dug or harvested, they are today the largest tycoons in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13437	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13438	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am addressing the President and calling on members of 225 and 226. I will continue, because I have just failed to explain and explain to those present, the chairman and citizens of Serbia, i.e. The municipality of Kovin. Therefore, the local community of Bavanište leased a transport company and provided services to "SHB" Belgrade 42 hectares of pasture in the populated town of Bavanište and called for Article 6(1). The law on the return of agricultural land. However, the question arises -- if the pasture is taken away, is this "SHB", which deals with agriculture from Belgrade, deals with livestock in Bavanica? He doesn't care, as far as I know, and according to the information I have. Second, why did they drive the peasants out of their pastures, out of their mornings? How could a representative of the local community do this, contrary to the Law on the return of pastures and mornings, at 99 years? You know what, it's something that's been broken by the Law on the return of pastures to villages to use by the state. In 1955, the state took away the pastures and the mornings of the villages to pass the Law on the return of pastures and mornings to villages. So the pasture is not returned to the village so that the local community can have it and that the president of the local community concludes a contract harmful to peasants, producers and cattlemen, to give to a man from Belgrade who deals with traffic and services. The law doesn't mean that. Please, I'm drawing attention, in article 7. The law on the return of pastures is prescribed – on the land referred to in Article 1. (means, pastures and migratings) cannot be obtained other than the rights laid down by this law. So there's no way anyone can have another way, not even a local community. The local community must initiate the procedure itself, it concluded a harmful contract contrary to the provisions of the Law on the return of pastures and mornings and contrary to the provisions of the Law on Agricultural Land. What Article 8 says – no compensation is paid for the use of mornings and pastures in terms of the provisions of the law. You can think now, the local community is renting out to earn money. The question arises who needs to earn, does one who concludes the contract, do any members who conclude the contract on behalf of the village? Did the village give consent? Has the survey been conducted? Did the village referendum say – we can rent to someone from Belgrade, we from Bavanica agree to give to a Belgrade resident who deals in trade and services, and has nothing to do with livestock production or agriculture? That is why I ask the Minister of Agriculture Saša Dragina to inform whether she will send a agricultural inspection to carry out an insight and determine who and how she uses her pastures in Bhavanište, Korenovac, Kovin, Dubovac, Deliblat, Beli Breg, Mali Bavanište, not to list Mramorka and all villages in Serbia, especially in the area of Serbia's northern AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13439	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I am reporting in accordance with the provisions of Articles 27 and 139. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party wants to discuss the problems that folk Mr Milan Nikolic, the SRS MP, what Mr Petar Jojic has been talking about for days, the problems the residents of Koseric, Pančeva, Bora and all other places have. We want to discuss both problems and protect the lives of Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, both the lives and the economic issue. We want to discuss in this parliament, and on behalf of the citizens of Serbia who have chosen us, and through the legislative proposals, solutions to what is bothering them and what is within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Under the Constitution and under the Law on People's MPs, there is no difference between the positional and the opposition MPs, but after the formation of the Government, it is clear and precise to determine who MPs support the Government and who are those who are in opposition. Fellow MPs, this time I think of you who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia first, do something. Namely, an incompetent or insufficient professional government has often worked against the interests of Serbian citizens and has certain problems moving to this parliament to do what is crucial and what needs to be done against Serbian citizens undetected and undetected. Please, Madam Chairman, in consultation with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, do something in this field. Fellow MPs who support the government, do not agree to such blackmails and such humiliations. You here simply have a passive role to play just in the voting day to press the green button, and that's all. The MPs of the SRS can't accept that. We also want to discuss the item on the agenda, which is to decide on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Article 239(2) The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly do not allow such a way as you imagined. Let's see what article 239 says. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: "The motion for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations under Article 1 shall be submitted by the President of the National Assembly in consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. "When political parties are said to be thought primarily of political parties that participated in the elections. I'm sorry. Time's up. I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13441	There's no damage to Article 239. The matter for the agenda item under way was made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and all the competent and mandatory persons acted in accordance with their business obligations. National MP Mirko Munjic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13442	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in recent days, we have indeed witnessed how the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is selectively applied to individual MPs at certain times, or to different parliamentary groups. If this Rules of Procedure is selectively applied to different parliamentary groups, which I say is evident here, then obviously there can be no speech in the National Assembly, on the one hand, on equal treatment of all MPs, and on the other hand on the legal work of the Assembly. For example, pulling on the hair of the SRS MP is not considered a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and of this House, and on the other hand, every statement of political stance by the SRS MPs, and even when it comes to re-quoting provisions of the Constitution in time by the SRS, as well as expressing the political stance of the SRS MPs, is indeed punishable in every way and at certain times, I would say, and politically brutally. It is your obligation to, as chairman, indeed care for the application of the Rules of Procedure equally for all MPs and all parliamentary groups. The Serbian Radical Party in its political work has only ahead of it the interests of the Serbian citizens and all its political work so far has indeed subjected itself to that goal, which is a struggle to preserve Serbia and Serbia's countries, a struggle to help those who have been unhappy after pointless wars in which we have been pushed not by our own fault and by another scenario; then, a constant political struggle for a better life of Serbia's citizens, a struggle to respect the rights of all those who have lost their jobs in the mafia privatisation business, which we have been aware of in recent years, as well as the struggle for greater rights of pensioners and all who feel disreputed. In this business and in this sacred task, we will really not be prevented by any punishment, no threats, no media darkness, to which we have been exposed over the past years, especially in recent months. To all those who have a need or have an order may crawl, conditionally speaking, in front of some, to carry out someone's orders, I recommend that they read at least one sentence of Conrad Lorenzo, which he says, and I'll finish with that... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. Here I am finishing up, saying: "The worm in its walking bends its body in every place, unlike the man who only does it in his joints. But unlike the worm, a man can stand up and stand up." That's what Serbian citizens ask of you as the bearer of responsible state functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13443	It's four minutes. People's MP, no harm done to article 27. In particular, there is no selective application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Just in your final presentation, you gave three grounds for giving a warning measure. One is an extension of time, because the Rules of Procedure are prescribed to be three minutes. Secondly, you did not give an explanation of how a member of 27 was violated during the session today. Third, you have used terms that may be referred to as inappropriate for Article 104. To any chairman or chairman, it will not occur to me either to give you warning measures, let alone warnings, but I am telling you so that I ask you to be more careful in dealing with each other when we want equal rights for everyone, because then we cannot ask for more rights for ourselves than we give to others. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: The "worm" is really offensive, I don't understand it. ) The MP says, "What's "the worm" offensive? There's nothing offensive about worms. It's offensive when someone thinks they have the right to speak for four minutes, it's offensive when someone doesn't say where I broke Article 27 during the session today, and they get the word on that basis and it's offensive not to give an explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13445	I, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will request a notice and an explanation from two ministries, from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, and I therefore report to the members of 225 and 226. I'm asking the Justice Department to give me a heads-up on what happened to a criminal report filed by the Fourth District Attorney's Office against the director, then the director, and now the chairman of the Management Board, the Flight Control of Nikola Stankov. I have information that the citizens have filed criminal charges, so I'm interested in what's going on. I'm asking the MUP to give me information on what he's done so far, and I remind the MPs that I've been out of this booth several times, and I've alerted the MUP to a crime that's been recorded in that agency called the Flight Control Agency. I ask that the notice tell me where the funds ended, the money from the flyovers that were collected during the sanctions imposed by the West by the state of Serbia, or SRJ, because at that time they were overrun, were flight controls, there was air traffic management and there were payments. The payments were made in banks, on accounts in America, England and Switzerland, there they were deposited. The sanctions have been suspended long ago. The funds should have come to Serbia a long time ago, and so he doesn't know who raised them, how they arrived, whether they even arrived or stayed in private accounts at a Swiss bank, where the sister of a very high-ranking flight manager works. The second question I'm looking for is the following. The schooling of flight controllers from Croatia, BiH and Macedonia is being conducted and an intermediary in the collection of funds for education is a private company from Croatia. I'm asking, why couldn't it be paid directly at the expense of flight control? Third, by what criteria do people from this agency retire? To inform you, a man who is 46 years old, with the calling of the Master of Science, who has all the permits needed to control the flight, so all the international permits and all the most certificates, have been sent to retirement, and now the training of new so-called. The frames. Even he wanted to be sent to school, to be lectured by those whom he could be not a professor, but I don't know what. So the humiliation is to the limit. And, let me remind you of something else... (President: Time is three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm finishing and I'm sorry for these 30 seconds. Let me remind you, this man has been appointed chairman of the Flight Control Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13446	The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legal basis for my reporting is Article 100. Rules of Procedure relating to Articles 225 and 226. I'm asking for a notice and an explanation from the government, the Minister and the Ministry. As the state of Serbia participated in the sale of the Chemical Industry Zupa, as well as in the break-up of the privatisation of the Chemical Industry Zupa, and now the state of Serbia owns 85% of the Zupa Chemical Industry, it is to assist the chemical industry Zupa. The first session of the tender committee of the Chemical Industry "Zupa" was held on 6. 11. In 2008, it didn't work. The other one won't make it. That's what you're going to do on purpose. This is what the State and the Privatisation Agency are going to do – that the Chemical Industry "Zupa" goes into bankruptcy and liquidation. Zupe workers, the citizens of Kruševec are asking the state to help, and the solution is simple and the state can help, since RTB Bor is owned by the state; RTB Bor owes Zupi a million dollars, and with interest since 1996, the sum has been over two million dollars. The parish doesn't ask for money, the parish asks for the value of that money to be given copper, and we know what the parish produces – copper is made of blue stone. The Parish will repay all debts by this production. We know what a blue stone is needed for: from agriculture, mining, water industry to electricity. The current state of the Parish is 566 employees, off gas, gas debt is over a million dinars, electricity is down, and it's only being released as long as it takes to maintain the system. The Parish has money to pay off just one more personal income. Another way proposed by the local government in the town of Kruševec, in which the SRS, DSS and SPS are: since customs in Kruševec should be removed, it is suggested that customs go to the Chemical Industry "Zupa", there are parking lots, we have rooms, we have everything. Customs currently uses the premises of the private company Amze Kaplani. Amze Kaplani bought an ex-Electrotransport. Today's State Secretary of Customs Miodrag Djidic also participated in the privatisation of Elektropromet. I'm also asking the Secretary of State for an answer. Is it possible for customs to be moved to the Parish Chemical Industry?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13448	National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13449	Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, information was published in a daily list, backed by the fact that the state of Serbia has only paid more than 30m euros to consulting houses participating in the privatisation process in Serbia in the last four years. The consulting houses are hired by the Privatisation Agency, with the aim of giving it or, rather speaking, selling advice on how and how much money to make the sale of certain enterprises. What consulting houses the agency has hired and what advice it has received from them is seen by all Serbian citizens. Privatisation in Serbia, announced as an extremely successful privatisation, has turned into the largest peace robbery in Serbia's history. The state mafia, close to the ruling parties, has robbed tens of millions of euros in state property. Part of that money ended up in the pockets of the owner of the consulting houses. Since Serbian citizens have the right to know where their money is spent, on the basis of Article 226 of the Ministry of Economy, I ask the following notifications: which consulting houses have participated in the privatisation process in Serbia since 2000 until today; in which privatisation procedures have been specifically engaged in consulting houses; what is the individual value of privatisation procedures; how much money has been paid to each consulting house individually? What's more important, where are the headquarters of the consulting houses, when these consulting houses were founded? The most important question, who are the owners of consulting houses that participated in the privatisation process in Serbia, is there among them former and current ministers, former and current officials or members of their families? What are the criteria under which the Privatisation Agency has engaged individual consulting houses for individual privatisation processes? In the end, I'm asking for information on whether the information was correct, and the information came from the Privatisation Agency, that the Citadel Advisory House was paid 56 million dinars in the course of last year for advice on the privatisation of the flag? I ask this question because everyone knows and the citizens of Serbia know that the complete business of selling the flag (not to mention what kind of business it is, we all see that the business has failed) has ended with direct talks between the Fiat and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13450	National MP Sladjan Mijaljević wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13451	The Tomislav Nikolic, after my presentation, came out here and presented some information about me that absolutely does not correspond to the truth. I immediately raised my hand to replicate, however, because of a large number of registered colleagues, I didn't arrive, and after that, I didn't even want to answer. However, I have received a number of calls from my friends and associates who have asked me to respond to these untruths, so that this replica goes to point 104, which is the dignity of the Assembly, or the untruths that Tomislav brought about me here. He went out and said he accepted me, or I joined him, Aleksandar Vukic, as I became a member of the People's Parliament and that I should be grateful for that Alexander Vukic. Then, like that, he shook his hand and said, "But there's no need to talk about Sladjan Myaljević." I agree, although for the past 18 years I have held over a thousand stands, over 250 television shows for over an hour, even though I've been running a martial arts school for 20 years and 90% of its members have enrolled a college, I don't know who's finished everything, but they've enrolled and I haven't ruined anyone, there's no college in Belgrade, Nis, New Sad where I haven't given a lecture, I really don't think I've done anything serious and nothing big to talk about me. But Tomislav said I owed the gratitude to Alexander Vukic. The first to offer me entry into the SRS, as a great SRS sympathiser since 1992, and Vojislav Seselj I met in September 1990, was Milovanovic while he was minister of religion in 1997, several times, perhaps more than 20 times. Then, Vojislav Seselj in 2000; then, at the request of Vojislav Seselj, the same Aleksandar Vukic five or six times; in the end, Mr Dragan Todorovic, whose office I joined, signed the card and kissed, when he said, "Now we are the right brothers, and I wear it here and I don't forget it." Those findings, expressed by Tomislav Nikolic, that should not be spoken in a way that should not be spoken, are really hard to find the answer, because his confused thoughts, his definitions that he puts out to the public, are really hard to follow. I thought he had this messed-up thought about listening to his own head, but he listens to what Alexander Wolfie tells him. However, through some deeper analysis I have concluded that he is not only listening to Alexander Vukic and what he thinks, I see that he is increasingly and more affected by the famous Saturday philosopher Gojko Radic, who has become one of the leading SNS ideologists.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13452	The People's MP Milorad Buha wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13453	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported about the article. 225 and 226. I request information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Youth and Sports regarding numerous incidents that took place at the World Handball Championship held in Croatia. Namely, it began with verbal attacks on the leadership and handball players of the Serbian Handball Union, it was continued through fascist passwords that are pronounced whenever Serbian teams perform in Croatia, with fascist, chauvinist passwords known from World War II -- "Kill, kill a Serb", "Serbs on willows" and a further arsenal that we all know. It was continued with attacks on fans from Serbia, car stones, buses, etc. with the registration marks of the Republic of Serbia, then by burning the flag of the Republic of Serbia, by removing the flag from the official mast with the flags of all participants at the World Cup. This is not what the public of Serbia is talking about, the media doesn't write about it. I even have reliable information that, at the Public Service of the Republic of Serbia, state television, at the orders of the highest executives of this state house, during the period of intonation of the national anthem, and immediately thereafter, in order to prevent the public transmission of all the vulgarities spoken by Croatian fans. I ask the question why is this kept in the media? What do the state authorities do to point out to the public, that through a protest note, through diplomatic activity, all the vulgarities experienced by our athletes during this competition and all the competitions held on sports grounds in the Republic of Croatia? I have to warn you of another international rule, one convention. It's about the Convention on the Prevention of Genocide that prohibits the use of fascist and other symbols, symbols from World War II. Croatian unsaved fans use World War II symbols and the Croatian Ustasha flag, using Ustasha T-shirts and other symbols. Why are we keeping this quiet? The issue is addressed to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government, which must react in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13454	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13455	Mrs. Komic, I'm reporting under Article 239(2). Rules of Procedure and Rule 102(2). The constitution, which has also been violated, and Article 83. Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Pop-Lazic talked about it. This act on the appointment of delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not prepared in accordance with the Constitution, only in accordance with what you think, that is, what the President of the Assembly meant, someone has wrongly advised, with Article 239. The Rules of Procedure, which also explicitly binds to political parties in their position 2 and not to parliamentary clubs, which we have proved to you in a June 2007 act when political parties from whose lists are elected representatives in permanent international delegations were addressed. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is currently on the agenda of a resolution on the Russian-Georgian conflict, or war, as they have called it, and at seven o'clock begins with an emergency debate procedure on the situation in the Gaza Strip, where we also cannot participate and state the position of the SRS, first and foremost, and also our state, on this issue. I must tell you that I have found this, Mr Aligrudić knows very well, in the process of this monitoring process one resolution under the code 1619 - the functioning of democratic institutions in Europe and progress in parliaments in monitoring procedures. Point 548 says, since this is in English, I will paraphrasise until I translate – the law in our country, in Serbia-Montenegro, knows such a selection of national representatives that it is possible to change the order of those from 1 to 250 that the political party is running for. It's as if they're giving us pucks, in that sense, they say in this final attitude of this point -- it can in some ways (that's what they're complaining to us, Romania and the Russian Federation) to confuse voters, because it's supposed to be lost to the essence of what the voters voted for. That's not true. If voters are confused, they are confused by what is being done in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by creating phantom parliamentary groups, because voters knew who they were voting for. They had election lists, they had candidates and our list was called SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, number 1. That's what the ballot looked like - Dr Vojislav Seselj. Every voter in Serbia who went out and circled that day rounded the party's name and number 1-Dr Vojislav Seselj. If someone is confused and the basis of parliamentary democracy is violated, which they are objecting here, because they realize that such a law and the law must be respected, then this Article 102 is violated. The Constitution, that is, its second position. That is why the act is not prepared in accordance with the Constitution, because in his second position it is said that the MP is free to make his will available irrevocably with the resignation of the political party's mandate, which is what the outlaw group Tomislav Nikolic has done... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... But he's a thief, he stole resignations. Therefore, it fits into these views of the Council of Europe that... this attitude and the challenge of selecting delegations; they only recognise political parties that went to the elections and run for their representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13456	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13457	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported for the violation of two members of our Rules of Procedure: Article 100(3), and you, Vice President Komic, have done this injury after the address of Mr Paja Momchilov's MP. You, after that, explained to him for a minute and 20 seconds that he spoke for more than three minutes, so that you strictly respecting the Rules of Procedure should punish him; it is a minute and 20 seconds nonstop turning. I asked for a stenogram of professional services, and later I'll be free to read it to you, so there's no confusion. It's all in the context of my story that you are knowingly stalling and stretching your work in this assembly, but there is a violation of Article 100(3). (please don't let me go until I quote): "The President of the National Assembly is obliged to make an explanation after the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. "When you spoke to Mr. Paja Momchilov, you did not give him an explanation about his advertising of the Rules of Procedure, but you explained why you do not strictly apply the Rules of Procedure. I believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, undermining, Article 100(3), and I pray that in the day of voting on it. Also, Article 85(1) of the National Assembly held discussions on draft laws, development plans, spatial plans, budgets, final accounts, Rules of Procedure, Declarations, Recommendations, Decisions, Conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts by the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 10.00 and 18:00 hours. "I remind you that the first item of the agenda is the draft decision. Mrs. Komic, today we started working at 13.00 hours and, in accordance with this violation of Article 85, please let us, in accordance with the article. 225th and 226, as current chairman, you say how many hours we're going to work tomorrow. I wonder if every time it is a direct transfer of a sporting event, even though our representatives do not perform, we will postpone the work, or there will be no work in the congregation hall. The same transmission that put the Assembly's work off today to 13.00 hours, if I suppose it's because of that, could have been traced to two more television channels. I don't mind having someone answer that the Director of the Public Service determines the working time of the Assembly, but there is a possibility that a delayed transmission will also broadcast. It was three hours. If yesterday we were forced to because of some who were once Serbian citizens, then the Serbian team, etc. Let's postpone and shorten our working hours, which are against which the representatives of the LDP, or were not in agreement with that, please answer me now from how many hours we're going to work tomorrow, is that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is there any deal that we're working on tomorrow from 13.00 a.m.? If it doesn't exist, please call, in accordance with Article 98(2), the heads of Parliament to determine how we're going to work tomorrow. Is the reason this has to be delayed until Friday, the problem solves itself, which is impossible. Please tell me in the next few minutes if there's a deal from how many hours we're working tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13458	People's MP, I have not hurt any of the members of the Rules of Procedure in my obligation to the MPs who seek and receive the word to speak of the violations of the Rules of Procedure. As for working hours, yesterday was a meeting of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, on which an agreement was reached on yesterday's work. There is an agreement with representatives so that representatives or presidents can inform members of their parliamentary group what was at the meeting. A representative of your parliamentary group was at that meeting and you can get all the details of the reasons why the Assembly worked yesterday from 12.00 to 15.20. For tomorrow, we received a schedule of commitments that RTS has, taken over by contracts that we do not enter, but the presidents of parliamentary groups will decide on, as they decided yesterday, whether to work until there is no transfer, whether to agree to a delayed transfer, whether it will work at all, whether it will work from 10.00 or 13.00. So the presidents of the parliamentary groups decide on this, with the agreement of the president, or the chairman, when the session will begin and how long it will take. The People's Messenger throws - when will he decide? When I call for a brief meeting and hold consultations with the presidents of the parliamentary groups. For now, I'm sitting here having a session, until we see at what point in the debate we'll be at 1800 hours, so we know what we can do today during the working day. Everything else you've given as a remark is simply not true. Although you don't need a Rules of Procedure, it may be evidence that no one more satisfied than me would personally be that this debate is over for as long as it took, because I'm sitting here trying to hold a session in accordance with Article 27, today from 13.00 to 15.20 yesterday, and Monday all day. So I am certainly struggling to end the agenda in time, but all this is happening is the right of the MPs to use the capacity of their rights and responsibilities from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13459	I hate to take this, but I have to. Speaking of which, a little bit, about running a session can't help but look behind the eyes of those who view this as a waste of time, there may be a lot of us who can agree, and it's a double waste of time. Not just a double waste of time, but a double damage. First, we walk here for two or three days because there is an unresolved problem, and that is obvious when it comes to some relations in the congregation itself and when it comes to challenging the mandate. There are no administrative committees, no resolutions on some submitted documents and acts here in the National Assembly. There doesn't seem to be any deal in that regard. When I talk about a deal, I mean not only some two political parties, but I mean one broader agreement, but no preconditions are set for that broad agreement, nor do they appear, because there is no strict agreement on it. It is known in advance that if such a agenda is drawn up, with such points as personal solutions, there will be a situation like this. Then this agenda is forced before the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where we have what is of our own interest, unlike those who claim to justify our non-department. Then, in this whole cycle of mutual innuendo, there is what is the worst of all, which is the insemination of the government, the ruling coalition, those who are legitimateized with more than 126 mandates to lead the Assembly, by claiming -- well, then no one will go, and then there is the opportunity for Serbia to react to the right things. It doesn't end here all week and that's how it goes in circles. When someone makes a remark to you, Madam Chairman, that something is wrong with the way you conduct the session, and when it comes to how much time is wasted, I do not dispute your right, do not let God answer it, because it is your business obligation, to the remarks that have been made, but to answer three or four minutes in a statement simply says that you are either doing it on purpose or not knowing otherwise. Whatever it is, when you add it up, I'm convinced that at least one-fifth of the time lost today is wasting on your answers to the MPs. You have responded to Mr. Maraš's remarks on various matters, when it comes to working time and how it was reached or not reached agreement with the heads of Parliament clubs and their representatives, and the main remark that has been made is that you answered on a flat-rate basis - it's simply not true. The other remarks took you over three minutes, and I was looking at a clock that wasn't turned off. So, it's just amazing. People, I appeal to you, I appeal to everyone, to understand each other, not only on one side, but I must appeal more to that side that has taken responsibility for its congregation majority, that something which is a huge disgrace to the Serbian Parliament and a great circus is interrupted at one point. The Democratic Party of Serbia, I conclude, has not reported for the word of the Rules of Procedure much, perhaps we did so once today during the day... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm done. We wanted to make a contribution and not be someone who would in any way obstruct this session, but obviously it's not the point. The point is something else. There's a previous problem that needs to be solved. There is no rules of procedure that will solve the political problem that exists here. Here, do it and do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13460	Three minutes and fifty-five seconds. National MP, you did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured. I can tell you about the time I spend on answers: less pronounced injuries without foundation, less time I spend on explanations. It's very simple. As far as I'm concerned, this session could have been closed last Thursday. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 104 for Mr Aligrudic's exposure. I don't think that in any bad context, he presented the situation when it comes to the SRS; I think he only identified the situation, but because of Serbian citizens and MPs, I have some things to clarify. It is good that Mr Milos Aligrudic mentioned the issue of the Administrative Committee. Mr Aligrudic and all the heads of the parliamentary groups, how long until yesterday were they asking us a question – when will the resignations of the three MPs arrive at the Administrative Board? Why don't you resign, but use the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's pay phone when it's simple to do it as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure? I don't think there are any MPs in the Serbian Parliament who would think that we would do such nonsense again if we gave resignations to a man who has already taken, who, you see, is prone to forgetting, take something and forget where it is. In objective terms, we expected the DS to keep track of the agreements reached when the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was established and when the Administrative Board was given to the SRS as the largest opposition party, which is a tradition that has existed since 2004. But you can see for yourself what's going on. It doesn't make any difference, it's like absolutely nothing happened. The Democratic Party is silent. Now, normally, a simple question is asked – why is DS doing it? Is that in the interest of DS? We can discuss motives here, talk about some of the issues inside the DS, about the huge problems in which the ruling majority and the problems within the ruling majority are found. The best evidence of this is the amendments related to taxes and excise duties, especially tobacco-related. These are things that both Serbian citizens and we are told that, thanks to the majority they have, they abuse the Serbian Parliament by in some way extending this completely illegal situation related to the withdrawal of the SRS mandate and also to a number of problems that the state is in, and I will talk about after the second announcement by the Rules of Procedure, as I am running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13462	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Markicevic. I'm sorry, the deputy secretary just told us. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and he gets his word on the basis of Article 100(1) and because of our agreement that the presidents and deputies of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13463	Dear Vice-Presidents, fellow Members of the People, Honored citizens of Serbia, I advertise, although some do not like the word, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. In fact, I want to ask you and get information, as a People's MP, about the future course of this session and the future sessions. Since you mentioned yesterday's consultations, on which I participated, Madam Vice President, on behalf of New Serbia, for the sake of citizens and for all fellow Members of Parliament who may not have been informed, I would like to specify what we agreed on at these consultations. First, it would be correct to say that you received a telegram or notice from RTS that they were unable to pass the session yesterday at the time of the assembly, so from 10.00 hours, and that you received that notice, according to what you told us, at 10.06 hours. I repeat, at 1006 hours, so there's no hour before the session begins. What do I mean by this? We've been working since 1:00 today, past consulting with the heads of Parliament, that's your call. We didn't know we'd be working since 1:00 today, we don't know, and we're not sure when we're going to work tomorrow. What's my comment and what's my question on all this? Respected Serbian citizens, when the DOS ruled, I replaced the president of New Serbia, Mr Velimir Ilic, at a session of DOS; at that time there was the intention to re-invent a coaxial cable. The late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was present, and he was also the leader of a party that is not present at the moment and that is why I do not want to mention him. The plan to lift the transmission of the National Assembly session was such that – it is openly said at that meeting, for these words that I say here before you I am ready to go to a polygraph – someone from RTS says there are no technical options. I read that now the contracts have been concluded, that the advertising minutes have been rented, so it seems to me that someone is trying to do it in a perfidious and cunning way, showing the National Assembly and the MPs as if they are doing nothing, shows that they should not be on TV, that citizens should not listen to what is done in the Assembly, because they are so irresponsible. I claim that it is an irresponsible ruling coalition, which has no plan and programme of work of this assembly at all, nor what will happen in two hours or two days. It is obvious that you do not have an agreement with the SRS on how to determine and draw up the delegations of the Serbian Assembly for the Council of Europe, and you should honestly say that, that we are no longer losing sight of Serbian citizens, some more, some less. Some are truly guilty and responsible for the work of this congregation, and some, who are willing to work, are not responsible for it. To remind you that hundreds of citizens today are standing in front of this house, in front of the National Assembly, in front of the Government, and that no one will receive them except opposition MPs. Does this congregation’s reputation collapse knowingly and deliberately? (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. ) Does anyone mean that this country does not need the National Assembly at all, does not need the Government, does not need ministers? Is there only one man who will rule this country? Is that the message you want to give the citizens of Serbia? I think it's very dangerous, that such a concentration of power and power we had the opportunity to look at in the last few years, and I don't think we should... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... These citizens and none of you to remind me how it ended. Is it possible for the de facto Public Service to operate during this congregation, or working hours of the National Assembly? Is that what you're telling us? To make citizens sick of MPs and this National Assembly, since we have centralised public media, a moss from Belgrade, where their central information emissions... (President: four minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I end up, Madam Vice-President, not answering again, looking at the greetings, wishes and congratulations of the ruling structure, the Government and the President of the Republic. Do you want this way of leading the Assembly to prevent opposition MPs from presenting real problems for this speaker to the citizens of Serbia and that I hope that we are still going back together to ordinary citizens, real problems that bother them, not to pretend here that the National Assembly is working, that someone is reporting for the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, that no one is answering... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... For something like that. That is why most opposition MPs are present on this side, and on the other hand, where members of the ruling coalition, there are only a dozen or twenty MPs. Maybe you know what's behind this, maybe they know, and that's why they're not here. It would be my turn, Madam Vice President, once again, to apologize for being over my time, to apologize to you and to the citizens who are watching, to give an overexplained explanation for what is happening today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13464	I believe that no one has the right to transfer the course of the meeting with representatives of the parliamentary groups without a common agreement, just a decision. Our decisions yesterday were that the Assembly would work from 12:00 to 15.20 hours and we do not have a common consensus decision to work with delayed transfers and when there are no direct transfers. These are the decisions of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, at a meeting with me. Another meeting will be to finish the deal for tomorrow. Therefore, the work of the Assembly will be decided by the President, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, together with the President or Vice-Presidents of the Assembly. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. So I don't forget, because the data is such that I can objectively come into a situation to forget who I should ask, I ask Governor Radovan Jelasic, Finance Minister, Prime Minister, and I am particularly interested in the possibility of adverting Boris Tadic. I've had opportunities to come up with a variety of information, but what I'm about to tell you in the best way will show the reasons why all this is happening in both Serbia and the Serbian Parliament. This is the best evidence that the ruling majority not only has no solution for problems, but that this is used in a way that suits both the group and the individual members who have well fostered and who, simply beastly, robs wherever they can and as much as they can. He says, "Six years ago, when the Commercial Bank was taken over by the G17, Dinkic's people came to the head of the management. For the bank president, an anonymous man has been appointed in the banking life of Ivica Smolic. After the bank's takeover, all Serbian features are taken to the basement, even the White Angel. He abolished the fame of St. John's Commercial Bank, which the bank had celebrated for nearly 25 years. In the bank from that moment on, there is a ruthless robbery. The purpose of this letter is," he said, "to warn you of the fact that Ivica Smolic has a monthly salary of 25,000 euros. "Look at how many people outside the Serbian Parliament are protesting because their property has been kidnapped. Deputy Santovac has 17,500 euros, my people! "In the management of the bank, which counts five or six people, no one has a salary below 10,000 euros plus a premium of 300,000 euros at the level of the year. The entire management has a contract in the event of a shift or loss of a job providing them with the amount of their last personal income over the next four years, as long as their mandate would last. "This is proof of what DS is doing, what the ruling parties are doing, especially G17 plus, because you rob on one side, and they on the other. If you don't, how can you tolerate such a crime, my people, that in Serbia someone has 25,000 euros? So is there a normal man who can figure this out and deal with this? You're accusing the SRS of obstruction, you're saying we won't work? No, you're making everything, just so that this kind of thing and who knows what other problems to hide, that no affair that comes out of sight can be solved, but to cover it up new. (President: Speak for three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm sorry, I know I've moved on, but just to let you know, you remember Nicole Tesla Airport. How long did it take us to introduce a budget inspection? 20 days ago, a budget inspection was completed. Where's the report? Shut up. Do you know what the salaries are still at Nicole Tesla Airport, how many deputies and individuals are there? You will have the opportunity to get that information tomorrow, and you will realize that Serbia cannot expect anything but destruction with you. That's why the government has to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13466	The word is made by the People's MP, Paya Momchilov, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, is giving up his word. National MP Nikola Savic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. He's not present. ) National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's giving up on words. ) National MP Srboljub Zivanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's giving up on words. ) National MP Sreto Peric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. He's giving up on words. ) National MPs Zoran Popovic, Marina Ragus, Radisa Ilic, are refusing to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. In the order of the declared MPs, the People's MP, Vladan Jeremic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the debate that has been held in parliament over the past two days and today as a preconvincing the proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, has now proved and proved, a confirmation of another attempt by the ruling majority, more specifically the DS, to bring down the legitimacy and credibility of the highest legislative republican body. Not only that, but it is also clearly expressed and present intensities of the regime that it does not want to, that is, respect neither the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor the laws, nor the Constitution of the Serbian State. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, both you and the public were able to hear an abundance of arguments over these two and a half days about my findings. It has been very decadently defined in which way and by what principle they are determined, i.e. the composition of delegations representing Serbia's interests in international parliamentary institutions. This time I will not repeat the attitudes that could have been heard about the congregation speaker, and regarding the example, it does, for the legitimacy of our delegation. There we had the opportunity to see and see the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and their verification of the mandate is all said. I don't want to mention Article 239. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because it is clearly defined that political parties, not parliamentary clubs, delegate their representatives. I do not want to talk about that Serbia, which is in a hurry and yearning for European integration, should still be brought by people with significantly less age and significantly more enthusiasm. Of course, I'm not going to talk about the fact that in Shaper's media sky, there's already a pre-reserved role as the sole culprit for the SRS, of course. If we ignore this so far, for something that has been wasted eight months of time, Serbian radicals are guilty, just as they were guilty of nearly two months late of the draft budget. We are also guilty of snowing in Belgrade on January 28th. Our representatives in the government are to blame for the increasingly difficult social position of citizens, for the wave of gatherings that hit us, for bringing the euro closer to the 100 magical border, we are guilty and that five million citizens from March will expect a thousand euros for free action, and they will not get it. We are also guilty of rudely high wages, you have just heard, party officials in public enterprises, boards of directors, etc. Most of all, we seem to be guilty of persistently insisting on a consistent respect for the Constitution and the law of the Serbian state. This could all be forgiven somehow, but this last one, it doesn't look like it. Democracy in Serbia, we heard this the other day, has a specific definition – a number that allows most. It seems to be a stronger argument than, say, the electoral will of citizens, not to mention the Constitution or the accompanying laws. Thanks to such a notion of democracy, our parliament is the only one in a civilized democratic world where it is possible for political parties, without participation in the elections, to come to terms of office, to form a parliamentary club and a party, and then, as the biggest opponents of the regime, to take advantage of all the time available in the media, which they have at their disposal, to place sad life confessions or serious socio-political topics on ideology, social justice, morality and so forth. Of course, the basic cause of our disagreement with something that should be a simple step in parliamentary activity is the fact that DS is trying to provide legitimacy to an extremely illegal and anti-constitutional phenomenon. Until we determine when the progressor's co-chair spoke falsely, sometimes or now, I have to remind the public of a case in the recent past of parliamentary life in Serbia, when my fellow citizen Zivadin Dika Lekic found his own ideology. Then someone declared this: trash is for a bucket; the mandate belongs to a party, not to an individual, so if the MP dies will belong to his son; the constitution must be respected; they cannot be parties who do not participate in elections to be parliamentary; if the party wins 82 terms, so much must be given at all times; let it reflect on the oath given before God, etc. I have to admit, almost four years later, that at the time, absolutely right was the one whose words were these. But pro-European evolution is truly a miracle. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives of the government, it's high time you stopped breaking the Constitution. Serbia is thus further away from a legally founded state, and hence from your dream - the European Union. In order not to get into a situation where the request of the Indian parliamentary representation association is legitimate, so that we can deal with the accumulated problems, so that workers can remain in jobs, so that we can have the strength to stand up to Eulex by diplomatic means, so that Serbia is not allowed to be a Thai country, the first and most important step should be respect for the law and the Constitution of the state in which we live. Not to forget, I think the gentleman I mentioned earlier, Tomislav Nikolic, is still telling the truth now, but the problem is in that old folk's "Who once lies, always will." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13468	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 23 minutes. Given that this means that this is the point of the agenda with which we will complete the work, I ask the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups to hold a meeting and agree on the start of the session tomorrow, so that the MP may complete his presentation. If you want, I can take a 30-minute break now and hold a meeting with the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. One of those two solutions you have. Please, since he is the last registered speaker, and we are finishing work for today, because obviously the debate on delegations for parliamentary institutions will be on the agenda at 1800 hours, please representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups to meet in the first floor hall so that we can announce to the Assembly the time of the start of tomorrow's work. If I get up from here, then the assembly has a break and everything moves in half an hour. I ask the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups that in five minutes, so at 17.55 p.m., we hold consultations in the first-floor hall, and I ask the MP Judith Popovic to take over the presidency. Here you go, MP, you have the right to a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13469	Mrs. Comic, I think it's very important that you be present while I speak. I think it's necessary for you to be there because you obviously have political power in the National Assembly Hall and I think that you can end what is the subject of today's debate or debate during these few days. If you do not, Mrs Kolundjia, will not be offended if I mention your name several times, because obviously you are here now a representative of the parliamentary majority and something that represents political power in Serbia, and if I call you several times, do not take it personally, but as my appeal to consider the argument that I will make below. So, since I want to recapitulate this debate now, it should simply be clear to the citizens that what has become absolutely clear to every normal person is to the representatives of the majority in the National Assembly. Let me take my turn. On 11 May 2008, elections were held. There's no need to throw away a team before it's not interesting, it's not jumping, it's not joking, it's not intelligent. So, May 11th elections were held. In the elections, citizens of the Republic of Serbia voted in favour of the electoral lists. There was an election list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, the first on the list Dr Vojislav Seselj. Based on the elections conducted, the distribution of 250 mandates and the SRS electoral list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj received 78 seats. Those mandates have been verified. How? By having received a list of representatives of our electoral list, the Republic Election Commission has made assurances about 78 MPs selected from the SRS election list - Dr Vojislav Seselj. Those 78 credentials with this content exist, they are in the archives of the National Assembly, because on the basis of the consent of these beliefs with the report of the RIK on 11 June 2008, a verification of the mandate of all MPs was carried out in that building and an act of the establishment of the National Assembly was carried out. Parliament groups have been formed. The way MP groups are formed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is that all those who are members of one political party form a parliamentary group, and that is practice, the Rules of Procedure do not allow MPs from one political party to have two, three or more parliamentary groups. I must, for the sake of telling the public the truth, say there was a slight deviation in the last term. I think one of these Hungarian parties gave one MP, and so Mr. Canak had a group of five since it was minimum five. A few days ago, Mrs Comic said that the political party can only have one parliamentary group, there can be no more, because then it would be a kind of abuse of the Rules of Procedure. If the political party had two or three, then that's not the point. MP groups are a technical means of working in the National Assembly. They're not an institution. I must draw your attention, the Law on the financing of political parties prescribes that those political parties represented by MPs in the National Assembly are entitled to part of the funds of a relatively large number of MPs. On that basis, the SRS gets the right amount of money every month, so-called. Public sources, 78 MPs. All documents of the National Assembly are being conducted day and day that the SRS has 78 MPs and cannot change that, because if someone changed it today he would practically change the RIK report, and that's the end of the deal. This situation is completely clear. There is a problem with the mandate. It's been practically since the fifth or sixth of September 2008. Apparently, because of one amendment, someone resigned, and after a few days he came out here and said, "I made my own parliamentary group." Both today and today, the documents of the Council of Europe and the documents of the National Assembly of the 20 persons are being led as members of the SRS. Now, with this relationship over this agenda point, you convince me that Tomislav Nikolic is a member of the SRS. You can't convince me, you can't convince the public either, but you can't convince Tomislav Nikolic, and that's exactly what you're trying to do, because you want to achieve a goal. There were speeches from Mrs. Kolundzija, as a representative of the majority in the National Assembly - initiate the procedure in accordance with the regulations. We did it. We've filed the paperwork for three MPs. What do we want? We would like to make it clear that their term of office has ceased within the meaning of Article 88 paragraph 1(2) of the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. How? By resigning. The Governing Board does not ambush and will not ambush for much longer, as they count that this is how they have achieved some of their political interests. You may have a political interest, but in order to achieve your political interest, you must not violate any regulations. That's where the problem comes in. Why are these agenda points inserted, this first point relating to the choice, or composition of our parliamentary delegations in international organisations? For the public, there are nine delegations on the agenda, where we have a presence. Mahom is about parliamentary parliaments and our delegations who should be present there. I do not return to what it was like when Micunovic led on his own, when Predrag Markovic led on his own, but in 2007, at a session held on 13 June 2007, the decision was made. Here, let's compare. For example, a delegation of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly: the first member of Suzanne Grubjesic, G17 plus, member of the delegation. How is this now shown in the new draft decision? Also, a delegation of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, an invitation to the same members of the Rules of Procedure, which is Article 239, writes the following: Suzanne Grubjesic, G17 Plus MP, member of the delegation's head. So something that must be identical in 2007 was done in accordance with Article 239, proposed in 2009, and we see the difference. It seemed to someone that I was having a little fun with Mrs. Comic. I said, "Article 239." I raised the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to font 18, counting on everyone to see it. Of course, she's so rhetorical, it's her tendency and I like it very much, I have to tell you that, she said, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. For the sake of the public, I have to read what's written in it. What applies to this item of the agenda is item 2. Mrs. Nado Kolundžija, I read for you: "The motion for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations under Article 1 of this article is submitted by the President of the National Assembly". True, the motion for this decision was tabled by the president of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. The second condition - in consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups. I'm not going to interpret now why it's unique, why it's not plural when it comes to the word "consultation." It is likely in some form of co-operation that consultation means that the opinion of representatives of the parliamentary group is heard. Is the opinion of the representatives of the parliamentary groups binding? It's not. On the grounds of many things, various proposals by the president of different parliamentary groups are heard, so if all those opinions, mutually contradictory, were binding, then never the president of the assembly could come up with one of his proposals. So this phase is also done or, to be exact, it's been done as a long-term patient state for six or seven months. Then we come, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, to the main thing. This has nothing to do with politics, please, he says, "taking care of the proportionate representation of political parties". When we're here, Mrs. Hope, with political parties, here's what the political parties in the National Assembly are. Mr. Vlahovicu, you're an expert on computers. There's no political party here to be called SNS for short. There's also a reason, an alibi, you know. On the 11th of May, when elections were held, they didn't exist, you know? Everyone knows that the SNS group, the political party founded in October 2008, on October 21st, is a "shuvarica". What is the capacity, from which part do we draw the motion for a decision? From what was 11 June 2008. Just to remind you, you are, not you, but at the time the National Assembly cleared up with Bogoljub Karic about the mandates of the moment he created a political party. Until he had a political party, it was kind of tolerated. Here, I see some people from G17 plus. Let's remember those two of your MPs. In conditions where the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia... So, in the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you can't find the words "political party". The 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia places the "political party" as a constitutional category as a subject of political life. So, regardless of what's hurting us, which is kidnapping our mandates, we have to fight for our mandates. Who could vote for us tomorrow, why would he say, "We vote for you and someone can steal from you?" We're not allowed to steal, are we? We've initiated two criminal proceedings, and we're going to push it all the way until this is over, but we need to cover you, too. You're not collateral damage, you're the idea creator of this concept, not you specifically. I'll tell you something else. Mr. Todorovic told you some reasons, perhaps to hide how much pay he has, etc. I think it's a much more important reason, you know? These games, which you're putting in, are aware that Serbian radicals can't give up on it. You wouldn't give up if someone took your mandates. You wouldn't give up. How? Djurisic keeps it in the safe, for fuck's sake. If I don't slow it down. Your citizens gave you that number of votes, that number of mandates at the beginning of the call, and eventually it must be that number of your mandates. Let me just draw your attention to one thing. Article 102(2) The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is perfectly clear, Mrs Kolundzija, explain to the younger Konstantinovic. He's probably in love now, preparing for a wedding, etc. But explain it to him. Explain to him Article 102(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the MP is free and can irrevocably make his mandate available to the political party whose list he has been elected from. (Hope Kolundji, from the place: In accordance with? Listen to me, Mrs. Hope, I knew you'd ask me that. But in accordance with that law, 50 MPs of the ruling coalition have been changed. In accordance with what law have you changed MPs? With the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. Mrs. Hope, I don't understand painting, I don't understand some things, but I'm a little familiar with these trees. I have also delivered the entire case to the municipal public prosecutor, and I apologize for using the name and last name, the G17 MP Vido Petrovic, whose resignation has been established. He wrote something there, it's all well done, I have legal-technical objections. The Serbian Radical Party has taken an irrevocable resignation from each of its MPs and a statement making, within the meaning of Article 102(2), the mandate to the Serbian Radical Party available, irrevocably. It's irrevocable. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. Mrs. Hope, let me explain to you the most well-intentioned. You've come out here a few times, I think, in the course of yesterday's debate, and you said, "Steal, tear, tear, split, etc. in the Serbian Radical Party. You've been fooled by whoever told you that. Look, it's your right to talk and I don't slow it down for you, but let me explain to you now why someone cheated on you. You've been fooled by someone, because there are judicial verdicts. I'll tell you right away, at the next item of the agenda, we'll have this Dejan Djurdjevic. He and Oliver Antic were putting together some lawsuits for breaking the contract at a local level, you know, and it all fell into the water. You know what they used as an argument – there was an effective SRS split. Well, you kicked Cedomir Jovanovic out of the Democratic Party, did the Democratic Party tear up? It doesn't matter that I speak a name, doesn't matter, does it tear? No, she didn't tear herself up. But we have, Mrs. Hope, a judicial verdict where that argument of yours -- dismemberment, cleavage -- does not exist, absolutely does not exist. "The changed circumstances," as it said, so you know what, this lady who represents those who asked for a break-up, she's ashamed when she shows up in court. He says some college lunatics wrote these lawsuits for breaking these contracts, so I'm not going to embarrass myself to come forward. These lawyers of ours, 30,000 dinars each. Well, 98% of all seats in the bar were returned to the SRS based on court decisions. There's, like, a few localities left. Ask Milan Markovic, not me. Now I'm going back to this part of the agenda. I agree, we'll have three mandates. Mr. Senic was right on the show last night. He said this had to be dealt with in principle. How are we going to apply Article 102 point 2? So, where it says "law," there's this law, and that's the existing Law on selecting MPs. Our two papers, signed by all SRS MPs, are: unrevocable resignation and a statement giving mandate to the Serbian Radical Party. Declaration - Article 102 paragraph 2, resignation - Article 88 paragraph 1(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. Mrs. Nado, we're clear. Let me explain one thing to you. Maybe I could figure out this situation where you're DS. I don't want to get into what Todorovic said: Vojvodina, Gilas, you all go around him, Miki Rakic, security services, etc. I think the following is that Boris Tadic can't bring this back to us. I think his life is threatened by people from abroad, because this attempt to crack the SRS has nothing to do with the trial of Vojislav Seselj. Gorice, believe me, there is no other. It must weaken the SRS to come up with a way to eliminate and liquidate Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. Boris Tadic knows this belongs to us, but he must not return. Listen well to me, whoever goes with the devil, the gourds go against his head. Do you realize who they've been in contact with for the past few months? We're talking to you because we know, Hope. So this decision that you have proposed does not meet the formal conditions that it could be voted on, because there is no - belonging to a political party, but you have inserted an imaginary category - a parliamentary group. Look, you can carry out the violence, but the violence you're committing here will return to your next item of the agenda, so it will return to you at other points of the agenda, the same formal reason. Do you remember when we talked about it a few months ago, there goes that procedure for abuse of official office, some heavy money, I'm not going to burden you with that, when a man comes out and says, "Give us out of the budget for 21 MPs, and we'll settle all the debts." Why? Why doesn't the Treasury pay them? He can't. Aco, you know it's not about money. There is no legal basis. And three months ago, I warned you about this. How do you think we should give this up? That's impossible. All citizens in the Republic of Serbia are giving us support. We're looking for the 21st term of office of the SRS. In particular, when it comes to the proposal for this decision, we ask that you put the name of a political party in each name, in order to vote on that decision. Please, take care, don't make jokes. I understand that you, Mrs. Kolundjia, are mistaken. You're not mistaken? So you're doing this consciously and deliberately. Thank you very much. You see, I thought you were mistaken, and you opened my eyes and said you were doing this completely consciously and deliberately. Now that there are no more ignorant sides, you admit to working consciously and deliberately, don't be surprised if you become an object of interest in my computer. Who knowingly and deliberately does something, who knows it's not in accordance with the regulations, has to go to the computer, there's no other. What does my computer mean? Watch tonight's trial broadcast to Vojislav Seselj, so it will be much clearer to you. I urge you to withdraw this motion for a decision and only do it in accordance with Article 239. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and nothing else, so you don't make a mistake at the next item of the agenda, so you don't make an even bigger mistake with some of the next agenda points, and that the stone that came out of our shoes wouldn't become such a big rock that someone could sink.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-28-0.u13470	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Let me give you a conclusion from the meeting of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The conclusion is that tomorrow, January 29th, a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will begin at 10.00 p.m., requiring RTS to adapt its programming scheme to the obligation to transfer directly to the National Assembly sessions. So tomorrow we begin work at 10.00 hours with a single search on the 2nd item of the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputy members of the Republic Election Commission.
