ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21855	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 84 MPs are present, and in order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs Mladen Grujic and Aleksandra Jankovic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the session of Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, as well as Dusan Protic and Nebojsa Lazarevic, assistant ministers of trade and services. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE CONCERNATION PROTECTION (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Trade and Tourism, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and that shall be five hours: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs will be on this agenda: Mr Milan Nikolic of the SPS-JS Group, Milos Radulovic of the DSS Group of MPs and Zoran Krasic of the SRS Group. In accordance with Article 142(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for a law on the protection of competition. Does the representative of the promoter, Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Service, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21856	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today before you a law on the protection of competition. This, without a dilemma, is one of the most important laws for every market economy, including ours, the law to measure how single economy is free, how attractive it is for investment, how much room there is for sustainable development. It is precisely for these and many other reasons that it is time for Serbia to get a new law on the protection of competition and for its legislation in this extremely important area to fully harmonize and comply with the highest European standards and standards of the most developed market economies. Competition was also one of the central issues when the idea of a single European market was born after World War II. At that time, however, this topic was in the role of ensuring freedom of movement of goods, services, labour force, ideas, capital, so that the last 15-20 years of competition topic would primarily be the subject of the economic policy of the European Union states, but also the measure and policy of the single European market. By signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have taken the obligation to bring the existing legislation into line with European standards in this area, and this law contains, in itself, the practically transposed all the most important European directives in the field of competition protection, but always in line with our legal system, with our laws and applicable in our terms. When we talk about the need for legal regulation of the subject of market freedoms and competition, several objectives are set, above all achieving greater economic efficiency, and then what is most important, maximising the benefits for consumers. The second goal of this policy is to protect small players on the market, in our conditions of a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises, which, especially in the conditions of the economic crisis, struggle hard to survive and survive. What's also important is that, in general, market freedoms and the possibility of all those who think they have what to do with, to know and to enter the market freely and start their business. This law is in our terms the law on the protection of competition, not the protection of competitors, not the politically privileged, not the wealthy, not those who have taken certain positions, not of any interest, but the protection of the widest public interest, which is reflected right in the free competition. Also, the aim of the adoption of this law is to curb all distortions of competition that are sustained thanks to the possibilities for the market to be suspended, limited, closed, to exploit the dominant position on the market. This law aims to make such behaviour impossible and drastically sanctioned. I have already said that this law contains a transposed European right from this area, adapted to our legal system, but what the paper is compared to the still current law is giving much broader and more significant powers to the competition commission. Practically, the right to competition in our country, in recent times, dates back to 2005 when, in September, the Competition Protection Act was passed. Without any doubt, the adoption of this law has brought much improvement and regulated this very important area. However, during the application of the Law in the previous four years certain problems were identified, above all, in practical matters. For this reason, this law aims to make the observed weaknesses and shortcomings correct, above all to make the Competition Protection Commission more operational, to make it practically relieved of a large number of small and, in some ways, less important cases and to allow it to concentrate on those most important and major cases of injury to competition, i.e. abuse of dominant market position. This law also provides for the Commission for the protection of competition to impose penalties, in other words, sanctions on illegal behaviour. It also provides for a public competition in the selection of members of the Commission. Of course, the members of the Commission and the President of the Competition Protection Council will be elected by you, the National Assembly, which is also a major step, as they will be responsible for you and will be obliged to file accounts and to answer for what they do and what they do. I also hope that, after the adoption of this law and the composition of the Competition Protection Commission, we will be specialized in it, instead of people who have been proposed by certain institutions, and also politically, have people who specialize in certain areas and who in particular segments of the economy where potential abuses of competition or any abuses of market freedoms will take place in a position to be professionally, qualified and on the scientific and practical basis of these abuses of activity and to express adequate measures in this regard. This law practically strengthens mechanisms that enable the effective application of equal competition and effective sanctioning of competition injuries. It enables the separation of proceedings from the Commission; the Competition Protection Commission, in accordance with this law, is particularly concerned with competition infringements, and the second segment is the control of concentration implementation. As for both these topics or these two important tasks, the Commission has very clear, precise powers. I expect that, when all the accompanying sublaws are passed, and that is, as foreseen by the law, within four months of the adoption of the law, it will be fully operational and I believe that it will make our country much more competitive, economical entities much more efficient, and it will make Serbian citizens more favourable to be practically protected from products of poorer quality and higher prices. What is also very important will make our country significantly more attractive to attract investors, because in previous years we have had situations that some big players who planned to invest in our country have had one fence that there are certain players who have taken up positions here, who have influenced politics, who exercise certain privileges and that they are the reason why some big, significant players who have estimated that this part of the market is also interesting for their appearances to extend the date of the launch of operations in our country and our market. I also want to point out that we were in no hurry with this law. It was adopted in the government of the Republic of Serbia in March; more than four months before it passed a very broad public debate, both scientific and economical, through chamber associations. The general public had opportunities and opportunities to give their opinion on the proposed solutions under this competition law. After such a public debate, we have already installed a lot of proposals that have brought about the improvement of this text and this material in what is before you today. We call upon you in the coming days of your amendments and interventions, everywhere you estimate that this law can be improved, and I do not have a dilemma that you all estimate that this law is necessary and that it is high time to pass, you contribute to making it even better, better and more operational. Once again, I expect help from you to get as high-quality law as possible; we will be there to put every good idea, every suggestion, every suggestion, every proposal, and possibly install it in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21857	Thank you, Mr. Milosavlovich. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, MP Srdjan Milivojevic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Lasslo Varga, want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs Donka Banović, Ivan Andric, Momir Markovic and Radica Jocic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want a word? Momir Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21858	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to take you back a little bit to the history of this House, not far, three or four years, to remind you of some events of that time. In 2005 the Law on the Protection of Competition was passed before the MPs, which you said was the way to Europe, that Europe cannot wait, the sooner we adopt it, the sooner we will receive the "white Schengen" and everything else. The Serbian Radical Party criticised the bill as an unarranged, non-functional, non-applicable law, as a law preparing for the policy of the minister, for the policy of some officials, mostly the Democratic Party, that the law will not be able to find its application and will not respond to what we bring it for. Then we suffered fierce criticism that we are Eurosceptics, that this law will protect citizens, that it will protect the state of Serbia, that it will protect our economy, our market, etc. What happened? Today, by this draft law, Mr Minister, you acknowledge, I quote: "In the period from the entry into force and the application of this law to the present day, the practice has shown that this law is indeterminate and that there are shortcomings which are overly relevant to the Commission's powers, the definition of actions which violate competition, the conduct of proceedings before the Commission, the sanctioning of infringements of competition, as well as the judicial control of the Commission's acts. “ Now you have come to what the Serbian Radical Party warned you about in 2005 when this law was passed. Now you're in a position to admit that the law is wrong. By reading this law, I have found that this law is not good either, and that in two years we will again be in a position to pass a new competition law, because then you will find that this law is not meaningful, that it does not allow for the protection of competition, of our businessmen, etc. Europe can't wait, and I'm afraid those two years you'll be the main culprits and brakers of our entry into Europe, under quotes. How many harmful contracts between 2005 and today, until this law comes into force? How much damage has been done to the State because of the application, or inapplicable law? How much damage did Serbian citizens suffer? In this reasoning of the law, you say on page 30: “The European Commission will, when assessing progress in the implementation of the SAA in the first years of its application, particularly keep an eye on the area of competition, where the adoption of such a law is necessary but not sufficient conditions for meeting the obligations that our country has made. “ Whom will you protect with this law on the Serbian market? Who, when you unilaterally decided to apply the SAA, a trade part of the Agreement, when the Serbian market is flooded with EU products? Will this European Union Commission protect our producers? I say responsibly - they will not, they will protect their producers who are coming to our market. They didn't need our products, they needed our market. No matter how poor the people are, no matter how exhausted the state is, this is still a market where they can get fat. Did you make sure our goods were protected from competition there when it came out on that market? You protected, ladies and gentlemen from the ruling coalition, tycoons from Serbia. Miskovic bought everything alive. He shut down all the other trading houses, the less the trading houses literally choked. There are no more corner stores where citizens have managed to supply themselves for years, where even friendly relationships have been established between the owner of the store, the merchant and the buyer. Everything was taken over by Miskovic. Of course, Miskovic here is funding, a good part, a ruling coalition and some other parties he has made because he needs them. He's got economic power, he's got trade power, now he needs political power. I fear that one moment Miskovic will ask to sit in the seat you are sitting in, Minister, if he does not want to sit in the seat where Cvetkovic is sitting. (President: Time. Finish your sentence. ) You have introduced tycoons from the environment, you have "Idea", you have "Pevec", you have Todorovic, you have everything living on the side. How many of our goods are coming out of the foreign market? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21859	Thank you. The Kolundji hope, the replica. Then Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, rapporteur of the Trade Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21860	I appeal to Article 104 since the Democratic Party has been charged, so to speak, that it has passed a previous law, which is bad. I just want to remind the truth that the previous law was passed in 2005, and then the Democratic Party was an opposition. If you want to look for the guilty, and I don't think you should look for the guilty, life changes circumstances and therefore the laws adapt to these circumstances, simply, for the sake of truth, the Democratic Party did not participate in the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21861	Ms. Natasa Jovanovic is advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21862	You weren't, Mrs. Kolundzija, a Democratic Party MP then, as you made a transfer from Covic to the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party voted in favour of 46 laws of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and a full set of laws concerning the areas of trade and all other resolutions you considered through Serbia to Europe, which you told us in 2000 that you would enter it in 2007. Therefore, Mr. Markovic knows very well what he is saying, unlike you, when you are already calling for article 104 and a violation of dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21863	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21864	So, I don't know what we're arguing about, I just wanted to say that the Democratic Party was not in power at the time, that the bill of law that was then passed was not the draft of the Democratic Party's law. It's simple, these are facts, and your need to personally attack me is your problem, not mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21865	Are any of the MPs who have singled out their opinion on the Committee on Trade and Tourism, which is Mr Ostojić and Lidija Dimitrijevic, wanting a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21866	Dear Presidents, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I have singled out my opinion, and I remind you that this debate should stop because a year and a half ago when the Liberal Democratic Party proposed the establishment of a polling committee for the Delta company, representatives of parliamentary groups now participating in the controversy, were against it. We think that the past law was bad and that this law is much better, but the experience in applying the previous law and the reality in Serbia at all leads us to caution. We'd like to vote for this bill if we're in a position to fix it. We have principled objections to this law – for example, that there is too much government, that many of the functions that the Commission should have are given to the Government. It is already a practice, and a law that was on the agenda yesterday, a law on regional development and regions, also gives a lot of authority to the government. In principle, we would prefer that the law adopted the principle of posteriors that economic operators are free to do what they want, and that the Commission itself monitors monopoly behaviour, but we are aware that this is not a reality in Serbia and that, in fact, the Commission's acts and decisions must be applied on the basis of the initiative. But there are some misunderstandings and we would really like to change that with amendments. Let's say, as for the powers of the President and the other members of the Commission, you will see, Mr Minister, when the debate is in particular that it is either ungrably formulated or that the President has some kind of stronger authority, or even the opposite of the majority in the commission. Article 3 refers to the application of this law to public enterprises, but exceptions are introduced: "... unless the application of this law would prevent these activities from being carried out, i.e. to carry out entrusted transactions. “ We think that these exceptions are necessary for public enterprises at this point, but we remind you of the obligations made by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We think that this protection of the monopoly of public enterprises or the monopoly of other states, such as in the case of NIS, must be limited by this law. After all, these are our commitments taken by the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and we have to tell all the monopolies in this country, whether they are state or private, that this situation cannot last longer than 2011 or 2012, as it is written in the Agreement. We think that this law, in a way, when read carefully, legalizes the existing situation and essentially deals with what comes. Based on the experience in the Committee on Trade, Mr Minister, and given your Trade Development Strategy, which counts 800 pages, which we have already talked about on the Committee, there are only half of the competition pages, we think these remarks that the Liberal Democratic Party has put in place and which it has submitted through 12 amendments can be adopted. In that case, we would be very pleased to vote in favour of this law. In principle, show good faith, because monopoly is really something that yells skin from the back of this people. You can, and in your ministerial century, do it often, to prove that there is no monopoly in Serbia, but when some trade chain does not pay suppliers, thousands of suppliers, when it brings them to a beggar stick, and none of them can sue and must sign contracts that extend the time of payment, it is absolutely proof of the monopoly, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21867	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21868	I thank you, Mr. Ostović, for your good intentions and your willingness to support this very important law. Of course, there will be an opportunity to explain how you see the possibility of the law being supported and repaired. What you probably know, but you may not have read the most precisely, is about Article 3 - European law, Articles 81, 82 and 86. The EU's founding contract, we have installed it in Article 3, so there is no difference between the highest European standards and our solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21869	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Radica Jocic, she also issued an opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21870	As a member of the Committee on European Integration, I have issued an opinion on the proposal for a competition law, so I would like to remind you of a few things. In the light of the legislation, it is said that the improvement of competition protection rules should be seen in particular in the context of Serbia's European integration. In particular, when implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, special attention will be paid to this area, since it is apostrophe in the agreement itself as one of the priority ones. For the sake of the public, I would just like to point out that the SRS has been constantly warning that the damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget due to the implementation of the temporary trade agreement with the EU is 267.000,000 euros, according to Minister Dragutinovic. Also, as far as the Competition Protection Commission is concerned, this bill gives too much authority to this Commission. You wrote in an explanation that the past period of application of a law currently in force, which was adopted in 2005, identified shortcomings in the sanctioning of identified competition infringements, since there were two proceedings: first, before the Commission, which considers and determines the injury of competition and second, criminal proceedings before the competent authorities for infringements. This proposal for a law confers on the Commission the powers of the infringement authority within the competence of the Commission. The Commission will now establish the existence of a breach of competition and, in the same procedure, express the prescribed administrative measures aimed at protecting competition on the market. It is precisely because of the Commission's great authority that is very important and the way it is elected. It is explained that the selection process of the President of the Commission and the composition of the Council is arranged in a way that enables professionalisation, depolitisation and raising of the level of expertise of the Commission body. It is true that this bill excludes the Government as an authorised promoter and provides that the election is made on a proposal from the competent assembly committee, through lists containing more candidates than the number to be elected and, better so, the previous public competition. However, we are witnessing that in the assembly committees, the majority that makes up the government also has a majority and that it can undoubtedly affect the selection of members, which is countless times confirmed in this room. We have even witnessed that in some bodies, very important, representatives of 125 are elected, and how much, for G17, expertise above politics is not to be spoken of. The fact is that everything that most institutions participate in is very difficult to function in. I believe that co-operation between a number of authorities that insist on being very precisely regulated here would otherwise allow for a delay in proceedings before the Commission and various abuses. Once again, I would like to remind myself that this law also involves new bodies, such as advice and commission, which, of course, means still increasing the number of employees in the budget, which, at a time of crisis, only adds to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21871	I thank Mrs. Jocic. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with many of the solutions provided for by this bill, I cannot agree and therefore, at the session of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I have issued an opinion. First of all, as regards the definition of the relevant market, Mr. Minister said about the proposal for this law in the media that there was an objection to this law and that part of it was related to the definition of the relevant market and that it was a sensitive part of the law. We now have in this bill a different definition of the relevant market compared to the definition given in the law currently in force. It is now said: “The relevant geographical market represents a territory in which market participants participate in the offer or demand and where there are the same or similar conditions of competition, which differ significantly from the conditions of competition in neighbouring territories. “ It is only in two words, “or similar, ” compared to the applicable law. This is unacceptable, because similar conditions of competition are similar, they cannot possibly be the same. This is the basis for creating a difference between market participants. The next thing I cannot agree with is a proposal for a new solution concerning the period of individual exemption from the ban. It is proposed that the exemption period cannot be longer than eight years. I believe that this is an extremely long time and that it also represents a way in which competition can be damaged. And a period of five years, which is determined by a law currently in force, is a debt, but it is still more acceptable than a new solution. This draft law in Article 19 tries to avoid, at least that's how I understand it, because it is not written anywhere, that the concentration of market participants allows the Commission. In the current law, it is clearly defined in Article 23 that the concentration is carried out as provided for under the approval issued by the Commission, at the request of the market participants. In the new bill, on purpose or by accident, this was missed to be precise. What is also unacceptable in this bill is the solution provided for in Article 68 concerning the payment of fines. When it is found that a market participant has committed a breach of competition by misusing a dominant position on the market, he has concluded a restrictive agreement which is not exempt from the prohibition, injures previously certain safeguards, deconcentration measures or carried out a concentration that is not approved under the law, that participant shall determine the measure to protect competition in the form of payment of a cash amount. The draft law states that a market participant will be set a competition protection measure in the form of a mandatory payment of a cash amount of not more than 10% of the total annual income. Absurd is that the highest is 10% of the total annual income and the lowest is 0%. I believe this provision allows someone to be punished by a fine of 0% of the total annual income. One anti-monopol law should in no way contain one such provision, for it is thus denying itself. I'm sure we'll all agree that if there is no adequate sanctioning, it represents the most suitable soil for corruption and injury. This provision will directly affect market participants to do harm to competition, because when the law makes something so possible, what is it that will prevent them from doing so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21873	Thank you. Among the representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic first called. Please reapply, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21874	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, there really is no party in the Assembly that is more interested in the adoption of this law than the Liberal Democratic Party. We've already said a lot about it. It's actually one of the basics of our party's operation. First of all, I have to say, we won't get far if the debate on this law is as lifeless as it was your opening statement. A few minutes, more or less, academic tone. It is a success to talk about Serbia's anti-monopolis law, not to mention "Delta", Miskovica, Beka, all those individuals, companies or parties that are placed in the context of understanding or abuse of monopoly. That's what we need to talk about in the Assembly. If we discuss this in the Assembly, then we will all be guilty and at the same time we will all be free of responsibility for this major social anomaly that is a problem for Serbia. It might have been easier for everyone to understand a year and a half ago, when the Liberal Democratic Party asked for a responsible debate in the Assembly on the monopoly behaviour of Delta, not because we think one party should be at war with one company, but because we think that there must finally be clearly defined relations in society. If relations are defined, then roles are defined, and roles are determined by rights and obligations. What's the matter with your law, Mr. Milosavlevich? It is true that he fully respected the European standards and principles governing the area in the EU. We don't think it was necessary and literally translate those standards, but we have nothing against it. What bothers us is the fact that you're ignoring the current situation. There was something that Zoran Ostojić was telling us about earlier, quoting Article 3 of the Law. Point 4: ‘public undertakings, companies, entrepreneurs and other market participants carrying out activities of general interest, which have been assigned fiscal monopoly by the act of the competent national authority, unless the application of this law would prevent the performance of those activities, or the performance of entrusted transactions’. This is the difference between your law and the rules governing the protection of competition in the EU. We can't do it without defining the deadlines in which those who operate today under privileged positions will fight effectively against the monopoly. The fact that we have on-call culprits today in Serbia, both in political and economic terms, does not reduce the problem Serbia faces. Who's responsible for monopolizing our economy? Did those who took advantage of all the opportunities and odds that had arisen to them or the state that was unable to establish fair relations and thus give everyone an equal chance? We are witnesses of Bill Gates' proceedings, with which the European Commission has been at war for years because of his efforts to preserve its monopoly in software and internet browsers' fields and thus exert competition. No one has satanicized Gates, but in Serbia, those who use chances that do not exist anywhere in society are being satanic. That's, first of all, your problem. I think that more damage Miroslav Miskovic had from your defences than from the Liberal-Democratic Party attack. The big problem is defining an important market. It doesn't matter if someone has a monopoly in Belgrade, and there's no monopoly on the territory of the whole of Serbia, and that's what needs to be determined. You don't determine that. You refer to the territory of the Republic of Serbia as a reference. If such capital concentration is in Belgrade, then whoever has a monopoly in Belgrade has virtually no economic interest in establishing a monopoly, let's say, in Koseric, where we had Sunday's elections, because there are half the people without a job. It's mostly the territory of other municipalities. Why would someone do such work in Koserić? It's very important if there's a monopoly in Belgrade. So, an important market should be defined and it should be said that a monopoly should not be established in that segment of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We need to see what we can do with the concept of monopoly abuse. We cannot fight war with those who are dominant in their actions because no one else is interested in doing so. We have examples like that. We need to see how we can prevent this dominant position from being the basis for abuse. You know that procedures are being conducted before the Supreme Court on the basis of decisions made by the Commission to prevent monopoly, or monopoly behaviour, the Anti-Monopolitan Commission. The Supreme Court has not declared that. Can we fight monopolies effectively unless we have an effective institution? We have not defined the deadlines in which the Commission is obliged to respond. It's very important to us. We are not satisfied with the way the Commission has worked in this composition. It is totally unacceptable for us that the Commission agrees with the anti-constitutional establishment of the Russian state-owned company's monopoly, instead of the previous monopoly of the Serbian state-owned company, in the oil industry. We've filed a request to the Antimopol Commission. She replied that she could not plead because it was a state agreement. The Commission exists to deal with private monopoly, but there is no way to sanction and prevent government-established monopolies, and state monopolies are a problem for the state. It's anomalies. The government shall lay down criteria defining the size of the relevant market. We think it should be done by the Commission. The government defines criteria that will allow individual companies to be spared the application of this law. We think it should be done by the Commission, because that is the essence of the problem. If we look at today's situation, let's be honest with each other, what is the cause of the existing monopoly in Serbia? Ambition and the desire to advance and expand, increases personal wealth, and the inability of the state to first make the legitimacy of such a process through respect for the fundamental principles on which they are built between politics and businesses, for example, in the EU, whose directives are now practically adopted here and, on the other hand, the defence of these clear principles, to which everyone must be entitled. You call for economic development one week, and another week your government announces the arrest of those who bought half of Serbia. What are the owners of half of Serbia? You're the Minister of Trade. Why do you allow such behavior? What country does that work in? Do you think "Standard Oil" would have been divided in the '70s if the state hadn't insisted on it? It was a decision by the United States to prevent the illicit concentration of America's monopolies. Microsoft did not split itself, because they decided to do it by Gejc and Paul Allen, but it was the US Trade Ministry's task because of a high concentration in software production. I'm trying to tell you that the problem is on your side and that the law itself won't solve that problem unless you know why. Miskovic, meanwhile, reached Olli Rehn and thus confirmed that we were right. It is a small victory for the LDP, but you are the minister of trade, here said something to you by Zoran Ostojić, what about hundreds of suppliers who are in a slave position today not only because Miskovic wants it, but because he cannot solve the problems he faces? You conduct polls, touch the pulse of society, think that Serbia will react if you decide to help a private company. What you need to think about is, above all, the answer that arises from the question of how it got into that situation. You're the Minister of Trade. When will a businessman in Serbia have legitimacy? Then when does he get close to your party or when he pays his taxes? Is there a law that says that one cannot own half of Serbia? You are the minister of trade, so why should those who own half of Serbia be arrested if they are in Serbia? It means nothing to us this law unless the state is ready to realize that it's actually just one segment of transformation of the whole country, of our system. Every day we listen to the most representative of the state who announces our arrests, bid whether it will be tycoons, those who made the government, by their recognition, which must not mean forgiveness of sin, but certainly have to say such a thing clearly and explain the reasons, whether the presidents of the municipality. In this political game, we're wasting valuable time. I ask you, is there a positive example in Serbia, someone you could take to the public and say – this man has succeeded, let's learn something from him. When we talk about anti-monopol law, then we are talking about the state's efforts to establish relations in our society that have never been practically defined so far. That's why we have to be careful about that. This law must not be a revenge against those who, in her opinion, are not operational, nor should they be the weapons of populists in Serbia, because all today in Serbia are tycoons. They're changing tycoons. I remember, when I was at the time the leader of the business club Democratic Party tycoons who were the problem of Serbia were Kostic, Cepter, I don't know who else, Dragoljub Markovic, and then with my exit from the Democratic Party a new tycoon circle came in, so today we have a third round of tycoons. What we all need to think about together is the fact that the laws are the basis of our relations and that we have to build modern Serbia on laws. We would very much like to vote in favour of your laws if you had the understanding of the amendments we have submitted, if you would have given back the powers you took from the Commission to the Commission; above all, this great right that the Serbian Government has given itself to define the criteria of exemption from this law. Then, if you understand why it is important to set deadlines through which there will be no more exceptions. That right was also reserved by the government for itself, to practically define it when these deadlines stop. It is very important for the Commission to define the criteria of the relevant market. In particular, it is the essence of your dissatisfaction and our dissatisfaction, an important question of the differences that arise between the concentration in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the important part of the market. With the amendments, your law will be better, and then we'll have to see together what we're going to do with that law and how we're going to apply it. This law must not be a threat to our business world, regardless of whether it is Miskovic, Bek, Dracula, Lazarevic, all these names that serve as cover for much more incompetence. We wouldn't want anything like that to happen. To make sure that something like this doesn't happen, we need to have a transparent running process for the commission itself, and there's a big difference. If the Committee does the selection, and then the Assembly votes on what was offered and not on what was run, we will play the essence of this law. He won't be transparent. Who will apply to the contest that will be called if he has not previously received political guarantees that he will be elected? What experience do we have with all the other regulatory bodies in which the running process is this catastrophic? The law on the Republic Broadcasting Agency is not respected, it's being violated. Look, the Constitution has turned us into the process of electing representatives of regulatory bodies in our judiciary, for prosecution and judicial functions. You see what the election has become for members of the National Council in the field of education and even the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. We entered that choice by offering us a quota from the former president of the Assembly: here, the opposition so many judges, and we from the government will keep this much. That is why today the Constitutional Court is silent about the initiative we launched six months ago to put an agreement between Serbia and Russia out of force. If the Constitutional Court were more efficient and capable, not to hide behind the paragraph norms, perhaps today people in Serbia would not pay the most expensive gasoline in Europe. You're the Minister of Trade, how can you influence that? Can this law apply to the oil industry of Serbia? It can't, because you signed, we signed a contract that freed them from respect for our legislation by 2012, and by 2012, it will clear Serbia's market so that no one else will be interested in entering. I want to tell you that for every commendation, this is your initiative. We've wanted her before. That's what we talked about openly. We thought that the last moment was when we practically voted for the SAA, that our market and relations between Serbia and Europe in the economic sphere would have been much more effective if there had been such a law. We've got him now, let's make him as concrete as possible and narrow down the area where the dilemmas remain. You cannot discuss the protection of competition in Serbia without saying as a trade minister what everyone in this country knows – that there are monopolies, those who have been created consciously, those who have been tolerated by the state, those who have in the meantime become burdens and monopolies themselves, but that there are also the needs and interests of this country and the people who live in it, those who are employed in those companies that have achieved the monopoly, that this issue is regulated in one reasonable way, and not through hajka, pulism and demagogy. That is why we expect you to come out here with suggestions that will be resolved after the adoption of this law, how behaviour will be established in the Delta case. Will you now triumph and build your political future, triumph over the fact that this company has fallen under the economic pressures that come from the crisis that we are in? Or, regardless of the anger that exists in society, will you be the minister who will take care of the country's interests in such a way that it will clearly define the rules and help its economy, including "Delti", if it is necessary to help? That's what we're interested in. Are they all the same in this country before the law or not? And we politicians, businessmen and every citizen? So far we haven't been, and that's our common problem. If this law is passed with a message "doesn't matter what happened up until this moment", then it should be said, and the moment this law is passed everything has to turn around and be completely different. If you think it doesn't matter what happened today, we don't agree with you. Since you're silent about what happened, I assume you're silent because you can't say that the government has a clear view. That's not good. You're in a lot of trouble on many issues, and you can't be on this one. When we talk about monopolies, economic monopolies come from the political ones that were previously established, who are in themselves so bad that they feed on their incompetence by opening space to those who are capable of doing something for themselves and for this incompetent policy. We did not finish our privatisation in Serbia, and companies that were leaders in privatisation were happy. We haven't established normal market relations, and we'd like to have investors in our society. The government has agreed to be an arbiter in business, but it has no right to do so. Not only have you become actors of the job, but you're also arbitration in it. When you analyse the members of this law you cannot escape from that fact that is very important – this law is European, but between the Europe from which you come with this law and our situation here in society there are obvious differences, and this should be taken into account. In Europe, this law applies and enforces the European Commission, right? We'd like the government to assume on itself that it's a different character...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21875	Twenty minutes. ... from the one you're talking about here. We would like you to show, instead of defining the criteria, that you are willing to apply this law by the criteria that will determine an independent regular body, that you are an instrument of liberalisation of your economy and our economy, not someone who defines the degree of freedom. That's the problem, that's what we need to talk about and it needs to change. The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21877	Thank you. Dear Mr Jovanovic, although the focus of your discussion was very broad, I still see LDP as someone who supports this law and wants it to be passed. Simply, perhaps a few technical clarifications, because there is no doubt that our desire for the Commission to be professional, authoritative, to have operational and mechanisms and to be independent. It is the way we have proposed that the members of the Commission should be elected that these objectives be achieved and that the commission should be so. A public competition will be launched for the election of the president and the members of the Commission. This is one of the assembly committees, for trade and tourism, where the opposition in this assembly of parliament has a majority, so it has the opportunity to propose members and, of course, the possibility to discuss and consider proposals for all candidates. As regards the powers of the Commission and the Government, in Article 21, it is very clear that it is a member of the Commission's competence, in point 4) that the Commission is competent to propose to the Government the adoption of rules for the implementation of this law. In other words, it is the Commission that has an obligation, under this law, to adopt sublegal acts, to propose everything you have talked about. The government also brings it to its adoption session. That is, above all, the expertise, but she, too, I would say, is the necessary need for the law to be practical. So the two objectives are, in general, globally speaking, about the adoption of this law. One is to pass as much better law as possible, with very clear rules of play, to give jurisdiction to the Commission. The second is to be applicable. You made a pretty good point when you said there were a lot of good laws in Serbia, but they don't apply, or they don't fully apply. By proposing these solutions, we wanted to come up with laws and sublaws that would make this law operational in all segments. In other words, both under the current law and under this law, which I believe will be adopted, I do not see the authority of either the Minister of Trade, nor the Ministry of Trade, nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia to assess whether it is a monopolies or not, but rather, it is the Commission's job and it will be even more when this law is passed. I would only say one sentence about the oil industry of Serbia. It is true what you say, by 2012, but it is also true that the existing and new law foresees the possibility of sanctioning monopoly behaviour on the market, i.e. abuse of dominant position. No one is protected in that segment. We have historical, inherited, natural, newly created, whatever you want, monopolies, so we call them and baptize them, but none of them should be inconsistencies if they abuse their position on the market. It is this law that goes in the direction that the entry of new players into the market is free. Whether someone has a monopoly on one part of Serbia's territory today, either yesterday had or might have tomorrow, may be a problem but it doesn't have to. It's a much bigger problem if someone's making it impossible for someone else to get into the market with something. Anyone in the economy most needs to be afraid of that competitor who hasn't shown up yet just because he doesn't know what he's going to come up with – with a new product, innovation, lower price, better product quality, better marketing. This law foresees that kind of market freedom. Of course, once again, I am not running away from accepting everything that is possible to make this law even better and to make it so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21878	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21879	Mr Milosavljevic, that is the problem, if we are talking about the selection of members of the Commission. We are not meant to have representatives in the Commission. The authorities cannot elect representatives of the Commission without some kind of agreement with the opposition. You're a minority on that committee. As the ruling coalition, given the circumstances, you have five representatives, and the opposition has six. So, most of you are here on the tide, but you're a minority on the board. How does this work in Serbia? You come in, you come out, and you're done. We don't want that. We don't want to live with our heads in the sand, we want to depolitize in a clear way and departize that segment of our lives, which must be free of the influence and presence of politics in the wrong way. That's the first problem. Second, life. There's little life in what we're talking about right now. We need your line -- I was in the Chamber of Commerce, in the Union of Entrepreneurs, at the Business Club, talking to the richest people, with the owners of half of Serbia, with people who have a store on the corner of your street, I got their support for this law. Every man who deals with business today in this law sees a chance for himself. We can't let this debate turn into a detour. After we leave this hall, Serbia must be aware that something has changed in it. We're passing laws like we're on tape. Life in Serbia has not become different after a hundred laws we have passed over the past few months. That's what this is about. This is an important law, it needs to change what you were talking about – this historical heritage, the context, that flea market that everything is about in Serbia. Look at what the other regulatory bodies look like to us. The Commission will propose, and the government will adopt. And if the government won't adopt? Did the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests suggest anything to the government? Did he propose to replace the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development? What was the answer – we don't care. Well, if we have such an experience with the Committee, why would there be different answers to the Commission's position, which, by its final decision, should be confirmed by the Government? If we want to change Serbia, we have to share responsibility. Politics can't control everything, and the government can rule by putting a boot on everyone's neck. That's what we want to change, and that's what's bothering us. That width, it stems from the character of this law. If we start breaking the economic monopoly, the precondition for Serbia's modernisation is economic freedom. Without economic freedom, there is no political freedom. Here's a choice for you from Sunday; there's been a bunch of bandits there, they're paved by juicers, they're buying votes, there's a political score. We can't change the country like that. That's why economic liberation is important, and political liberation and media. That's why this law is important to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21880	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21881	Thank you. I agree with you, this law must be supported by businessmen, those small, medium and large, and foreign investors. It was just four months that we discussed this law publicly, represented it in a number of places, from the "Sava Center", through chambers, regional chambers, associations of managers, the Club of Business, everywhere where there was a desire and a need to discuss individual solutions or about the law globally. Your grudge from the previous discussion was to be late with this law. We are a few months behind because we did not want to deliver the law to the National Assembly as on tape, but we discussed very carefully, very closely with everyone who wanted to make a contribution to make it better. Of course, not everyone agreed with this law, there are also large and small; large ones, who feel that the law will prevent them from acting as in certain segments of their business as so far, and there are those who think that this is not operational enough for absolute market freedom and equality of all participants to be established. Once again, two global goals were important to us: firstly, to pass a modern European law and secondly, to make it applicable. Indeed, based on my experience so far, I am a businessman (twenty years of doing so, which in scientific research, which in the economy, which in the government, which in chambers), I am convinced that this law will bring a lot of positive shifts and will help to solve problems, which are inherited or may have been created in previous years, in a quick, even, legal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21882	The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21883	I'm not sure it's a good thing this law came on the agenda. Of course, I'll try, like in school, to explain it to you by starting with a little introduction, so I'll work out a little bit, and I'll make you conclude in the end what I initially set as a subject to think about. The fight against monopoly and what is called antimonopoly is usually related to the market, the transport of goods, services, capital, labour force, but to understand the essence of that concept, this means that all those measures and all those behaviors that prevent an individual from choosing between two or three alternatives should be banned. So an individual should have an alternative, he must have an offer. It is not chosen if one is offered, it is chosen if one, two, three, five or more is offered. Of course, this story can extend to other areas, in the area of freedom and the rights of every citizen. When there's a monopoly, we know it's some kind of bully or state, and then we defend ourselves through the protection of citizens, we defend ourselves through courts, through laws, but there's still a problem of what to do if such a bully shows up on the market. Usually, those who are pathologically fond of money appear; not choosing the means to earn profits are driven by material interest and try to create a better position on the market so that you as consumers would not have an alternative when choosing, because you have nothing to choose from. In human civilization, really some monopolies have appeared that are inevitable. Let me remind you, electricity, city transport, it's a monopoly. Civilised society has been thinking about how to fight violence, let me use the word monopoly. When he's in politics, then they say four years, then elections. When the right to life and some other rights are first, second and third generations, then it is said – respect for human rights and the development of democratic society. It's all in one capitalist mile. When it comes to the market and when it comes to consumers, it first moves from the balance sheet. So, you can suppress something like illegal market behavior, if you have goods, if you have an alternative, but if you don't have the goods that are balance-free on a market, then all the talk of a monopoly is pointless, it's rhetorical, hypothetical, by system -- it's shaking up, it's a mouse born. Since you're arguing whether there's a fight against monopoly in this country, it's always existed. She used to be able to contain herself to a certain extent, and since 1994 and 1995, we first started with anti-monopoly commissions; they had a huge lack of work, especially because the production and consumption balances couldn't be filled and then fell into the water every story about the monopoly. How do organized societies fight monopolies? I don't want to celebrate EU regulations, make sure they're not as high-quality as Eurofanatics praise them, and the proof of that is very simple: you can't buy coke at a liquor store. There's a whole story about an antimonopoly in Western Europe that fell on one of the most common beers and one of the juices, sugar water. The question arises – how can we fight injustice? How can we fight against those whose thoughts are mastered by money, not love, feeling? That's the problem of these rich people -- they're no longer handling themselves, but their capital, and then they're grabbing, they're a little bit gnarly. He lacks a newspaper, lacks television, lacks a gas station, lacks a "kruška", lacks a store, lacks a bank, lacks an insurance company, always lacks something because money has no sense, and they drive him to mentally impaired thinking. How do society fight? Let them fight by suppressing or controlling the monopoly, and let them fight by encouraging competition. I have to say that what is gravitating the liberal concept of economics is more defined to encourage competition, to protect competition. How? The rules are liberalised, the procedures are simplified and everyone is given the opportunity to participate in the market, under certain conditions; in the first place it is legitimate to operate, and secondly, if the goods are produced, it should be of quality and according to the standard that is prescribed. Unfortunately, when you don't have a balance sheet, when you're wandering in balance sheets, then you have a situation where, from 2001 to today, a monopoly is stimulated precisely because of the balance sheet, because of the balance problem. And you have a state monopoly, you have different situations which, since I have quite enough time in the principle debate, after these opening statements to the details to explain to you, and which is why this law is not good. You proposed in 2005, the Democrats voted in favour, they didn't mind applying it later, the state-of-the-art European law, so we now saw that it wasn't as European, there are more "European" regulations. We are passing the law because of us, so that there is no saying here – Kosovo is Serbia and the rest is "Delta". It's that saying that's written on T-shirts. Those who criticise "Delta" are there on the payroll, so they go somewhere in the bar with his blonde, split the money, and finish the job. Don't talk about morality, let's talk about the law. Does this law guarantee a fight against the monopoly? He doesn't guarantee it. End of story. In principle and in the debate on amendments, we will show exactly which member allows the monopoly to continue to be a "turbomonopolist" in this country. Sometimes it is said, I will take the most complex example that every citizen can understand – if we allow private capital to be present in urban traffic, local self-government and citizens will benefit. What's the use? Lower price of the ticket. It didn't happen, and we have a large number of local self-governments, where private people do a confidential job next to a public enterprise. That job is monopolistic. I'll take another example: electricity, railways, it's said - the state retains the monopoly on the lower machine, on traffic safety, and the tracks will run private trains, it will be cheaper. They don't run, they're gone. You did the same thing in postal traffic. You have agreed with telecommunications, he says – if there are two sets, if we put in a third, there is already competition. You made a deal, they spin commercials on all the TVs, you see for yourself, sponsors of everything and everything. The European Union barely dealt with the price of rumming a year ago. They fought for three years. European parliamentarians couldn't contain that force. Why? "Vodafon" and these had their MPs, lobbyists. What's behind that? A demented mind commanding money. All great rich people are defined by the definition of sick people. Why do they need that kind of money? They command them. To return to what is the subject of this law. By definition, there is something that is forbidden, conditionally forbidden -- monopolistic agreements, you have now called them "restrictive agreements". I do not know why you have adopted a new terminology from the European Union, the term "monopolistic agreement" is better, but "restrictive". Restrictive means a shortened agreement, a narrow agreement or something that's closed to others, but that would be just one part of something that used to be called a monopoly agreement. We used to have a special injury, or a special subject of interest in anti-monopolis regulations, which is to suppress and limit the monopoly. It's lost now. Of the classical definitions, only abuse of a dominant position remains, although it would have to suffer appropriate changes. I don't know if it's smart to choose a percentage of 40%, I don't want to talk about it, I have a specific topic, I'll leave it for later. It's a good thing you introduced something new, and that's the concentration, that's good. Cedomir Jovanovic set one example, but in each country you have 20, 50 such examples where there is a very high concentration of not only capital, there is a lack of this chapter, but also an impact that is not directly related to capital, but is covered by laxative jobs and is also present in entire areas and entire branches. I don't know why you changed this. Unlike the others who talked about this bill today, I must commend you. Anyone representing a state body to fight monopolies must apply regulations, and should not be subject to regulations, because this is not a regulatory body. All that has been entrusted to the Commission is the original state business. The government should pass sublaws, and probably a number of regulations should be passed by the National Assembly. The main lack of this regulation is that you have criteria, criteria and all that you need to serve as the basis for applying it to an anti-monopol commission you had to prescribe this law, a team that is now richer for one experience. Now we have experience on the side of the offer, on the side of demand, and on the side of the financial market, etc. In this sense, this law had to be much more specific and recognizable. The great lack of this bill is that anyone taking part in the market needs to check their position on the market so as not to be surprised that they have a dominant position on the market, to be known in advance. The third major drawback: everything you installed as rules of procedure applicable to the Anti-Monopolitan Commission had to be more restrictive and only as an exception to the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes. You have exceeded that authority, you have gone beyond what was necessary, and we will have privileged communications, and protected information and protected witnesses, as if it were a special court. It's a huge flaw, which makes this law absolutely inapplicable, and that's the problem. The law needs us, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The purpose of the anti-monopol rules is primarily to protect consumers, to guarantee consumers the right to an alternative, to choose between two products, while respecting a large number of specificities because certain products have become brand and are simply irreplaceable in consumer perception. We're talking about this from the consumer's point of view. The next in the area of shortages is the fact that there are other regulations that have anti-monopol provisions. I'd like to draw your attention to the Bank Act, the Insurance Society Act and the Investment Funds Act. We can make more, all that's the subject of supply and demand is the subject, practically, of this law, I just took something out of supply and demand. But we have two different processes at this meeting today: we have a process where an anti-monopol law is suppressed something and we have a process of amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act incentivising something that the previous regulation suppresses. You are now allowing the concentration of capital in management companies, investment fund management companies, giving them the opportunity to invest their assets, buy out investment units. It doesn't make sense. You have one piece that's not fully regulated. That's Dragan Gilas, the completely unregulated part. You can't even think about it because you're from the same client. That's not why I'm calling you. I know you'd die without a bullet. That's not what I'm talking about. That's what Boris Tadic's gonna take care of. You know how Boris listens to me; I tell him about Bojan Pitiæ, and now he's sent him to professors. I told him about Gilas, now he's going to jail. Don't worry, I'll break it. The fight against monopoly is on all fields, all that can be the subject of supply and demand; and the political options are... So this law is conceptual, as you gave it, incorrigible. That's what I need to draw your attention to. There's good ideas here, that's what you have to say. The basic lack is the great inaccuracy of this law. First of all, the aim of the adoption of every regulation is that when a citizen reads it, the director of a business entity, he must have all clear indicators and see how to behave so as not to come under the pressure of sanctions prescribed by that law. Give this law to any businessman, nothing will be clear to him. You're forcing him to be friendly with the Competition Protection Commission, to be courted. I haven't gotten to the relevant market yet, I haven't gotten to the goods, I haven't come up with many details that are very important for this law, but I'll help you with specific examples and some contracts, to see under which conditions someone can buy goods from a manufacturer. We haven't yet opened the question of why our market is as open as a can of sardines, so whoever wants to be served. You need to protect domestic production with this regulation. You've completely forgotten that. You need to protect your domestic production. You only took two aspects, if I may say, of the markets. You took, somewhat, the price, the price arrangements, etc., the fact that the only guarantee in this country for stability is the price of the National Bank of Serbia, and no one else. In the second part, you just touched the market in terms of geographical concept, you just touched it. In earlier regulations, the monopoly was also valued according to the neighborhood, both towards the street and towards the settlement and towards the city, and this is where the territory of the Republic of Serbia dominates. This means that we all eat on average cabbage with meat – one is just meat and the other is cabbage water. That's our average. Why did you involve that? Do you know that tycoons already have ready answers to all the members and all the solutions set out in this bill? They also wrote this law, except you can't admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21884	Thank you. Before we continue our work, let me inform you that part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly was accompanied by scholarships from the “Conrad Adenauer” Foundation, which are visiting the National Assembly. The people’s messengers receive: “Why are they not welcomed in the hall? “ Because during their stay at the gallery, he had the right to use his 20 minutes as an authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group Zoran Krasic and because I do not normally consider it legal to interrupt the presentation of MPs to welcome guests at the gallery. Please don't throw it away, because the discard is forbidden by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, we welcome their stay, hoping that many will be interested in monitoring the session's work from the National Assembly gallery. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan J. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21885	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the history of economic development and market behaviour is very long and thanks to the market as a specific regulatory mechanism that has its own rules comes to speed up economic development in the world. Thanks to the market and its functioning, especially in the 20th century, there is an industrial revolution, the development of new technologies, the development of many new products, the growth of productivity and the rise of living standards for the population. All this is happening in the growing supply of many consumer and permanent goods, as well as services, and there is a frenzy struggle for quality, design and low prices. Modern market movements create a world market as a space anyone can go out on, and only the best remain. A fierce competitive struggle is being developed, offering survival to the most capable. Such a market philosophy is good and it pushes progress and encourages development. However, very common are the occurrences of the so-called. unfair competition, black business and endangering healthy competitive struggle. Such behaviour is characteristic of developing countries and especially transition countries, where there is a sudden accumulation of capital in the hands of a small number of individuals whose behaviour is very fast rather than a market transition to a monopoly. Our economy is not spared this behavior. Even today, we have massive phenomena of monopoly behaviour, black and avoidance of payments to the state; there are mass copies of products in which a person has invested; many products of questionable quality are offered without necessary certification, without mandatory standards and, as a rule, at lower prices. In this way, those who respect all these rules are placed in an unequal position in a competitive fight. To make these phenomena stand in the way, many laws are needed to regulate this matter in the way it is regulated in the EU countries and countries of the developed world. As a first move, during 2005, this high house passed the Competition Protection Act. The first Competition Protection Act marked a significant stage in the development of competition rights and policies in Serbia. This law constitutes a legal framework that contains solutions that are substantially in line with European law rules, especially in a material sense. This undoubtedly made progress in relation to the previous regulations that regulated this matter. However, the practice has shown that this law is in many ways inconclusive and that there are shortcomings in both the way the Commission is formed to protect competition and the measures that the Commission has been authorised to take, so its effectiveness has been questioned. I think it's the right definition of a proponent to offer a new law instead of going to changes and supplementing an existing legal solution, where there would be a risk of still having unspecified views and definitions. European integration into the Stabilisation and Association Agreement pay particular attention to areas of competition protection. Meeting these requirements is crucial in the adoption of a positive assessment in the accession process; it will be appreciated how we normly regulated and in practice implemented the competition protection process. The aim of the new Competition Protection Act is clearly defined in the first article, which is economic progress and the well-being of society, and in particular the well-being of consumers. The law refers to the entire territory of the Republic, as well as the shops outside its territory which may be influenced by all participants in the transport of goods and services in Serbia, regardless of the legal status of the entity, form of property or state membership of the entity, as well as the form of association. The law defines the concept of related market participants, regulates the way and criteria for the calculation of total income at the annual level of market participants. It quite precisely regulates the concept of economy, the concept of injury to competition, and in particular acts and actions that may result in significant restrictions, distortions or prevention of competition. Special attention shall be paid to restrictive agreements and abuse of the dominant position. The notion of a dominant position on the market implies that a dominant position exists if the participant does not have competition in the relevant market or is insignificant, i.e. if it has a significantly better economic position than competitors, taking into account market shares, economic and financial strength, market access, supply and distribution, as well as legal barriers to other participants' access to the same market. The legislator defined that a market participant who has 40 and more percentages of the market share has a dominant position, which does not mean that at the level of the share is a breach of competition, but if abuse of the dominant position is committed, it is obvious that competition is injured and such a participant is subject to sanctions after the evidence has been carried out. In order to protect competition effectively, the law regulates the position, competence and authorities of the Commission for the Protection of Competition. The Commission is an organisation which exercises public authority entrusted with this law, is independent, independent and has legal personality. The Commission's main task is to fully implement the Competition Protection Act. The Commission’s authorities are presidents and four members who continue to form their professional services. The Commission's bodies, presidents and members of the Council shall be elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Assembly Trade Committee, after a public competition has been called. The Commission authorities shall be selected for five years. The law has quite precisely regulated the profiles of the members and president of the Commission, from the aspect of the length of the internship, the possession of expertise and moral quality, and has prescribed a way of working, control and the procedure of determining injury to competition. The Commission sets out measures to protect competition. The President of the Commission and its members shall have the status of officials and shall not be able to carry out other tasks other than entrusted. They can't be members of political parties. The Commission shall establish the statutes and rules of conduct in the procedure of determining the infringements of competition and taking measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS - JS Group will declare in the voting day for the adoption of this bill because we believe that the proposal is good, that we need such a law and that one of the conditions that we need to meet in the accession process. We expect the Commission to move responsibly to realise its tasks within the powers given and quickly clarify many of the dilemmas we have, above all whether and which companies in our country are in a dominant position, whether we have monopolies, who are choking competition and who has to pay for penalties and penalties to choke competition. It will benefit, I would say, all: those marked as monopolies, and not; those who are monopolies will be sanctioned; healthy competition will be allowed, which will achieve the objectives of improving quality of goods and services in favour of consumers, lower prices, and, importantly, we will meet another of the conditions on the way to Europe. Stable and healthy competitive relations create a presumption of foreign capital entry, with the knowledge that the investor performs on the market where there is no particular uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21886	The word is by MP Milos Radulovic, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21887	Thank you. Madam Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a very important bill, a draft law on the protection of competition. I would first of all refer to that opening part, that is, the opening story of Minister Milosavljevic, who said that today is one of the most important laws, which regulates the efficiency of the economy, the protection of small producers, that the aim of the law is to try to suppress the oppression of competition, to eliminate the abuses that lead to market disturbances. Among other things, he said that four months after the adoption of this law would be fully operational. In his presentation, Mr Nikolic said that this law gives the best opportunities. However, the practice and what life does is that it is precisely the position of the best that is very difficult and that they are struggling to survive in the conditions of unfair competition. I'm afraid the effects won't be that way. It is not clear to us MPs from the DSS Group why we waited for a year with trade laws when we had an Action Plan to harmonise the rules with the EU, led by Mr Djelic in a former government meeting, when all documents were prepared, approved and adopted as such. Do I, Mr. Minister, need I remind you that, for reasons unknown to us, the most extensive text of the system law on trade, which is the roof law, which has passed all the criticism and analysis and as such should be the roof law over all the laws in the area of trade? I ask the question – if he's already been through all this, why isn't he in the process? Who am I dealing with this law now? Probably several "experates" with fat fees, which in a few months will probably present to us the text of a law that will be prescribed or even identical to that already adopted in the former government council. After a year, the current government adopted identical texts of the general product safety law in use and on electronic trade, which only goes in favour of this claim. I ask the question, what about the consumer protection law, which was unanimously accepted and which was meant to create protection mechanisms for the most numerous and most vulnerable group compared to those who achieve extraprofits, monopolies? I remind you that a task force to determine the height and structure of the prices of basic life supplies in the former government's meeting has come up with very indicative indicators, which point to irregularities and that you, Mr. Minister, and Mr. Djelic have disbanded that task force and thus cut down every story on the subject, as well as on the subject of consumer protection. On many occasions, I said that this government is a product of rotten compromises, agreements with importers or, more freely speaking, tycoons and some who represent here some countries that are obviously in relation to this government, Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party have a huge influence and that essentially everything is being brought under their pressure. The greatest benefit from not passing this law is the monopolies. Monopolies have created a chance to destroy a huge number of small and medium-sized enterprises, independent trades, which could not withstand the competition of the monopoly. For this is the best example, go through Belgrade and through any city in Serbia, you will see a huge number of indoors. This brings back the consequences that a huge number of citizens are out of work. In every regulated country, small and medium-sized enterprises, family activities are pillars of society, economic incentives for economy and economic development. It's just not the case with us. Here everything is done in the interest of those monopolies, those great ones who dictate both market conditions and the politics of this government. Big trade chains, you know that already, Mr. Minister, suck up over 80% of wide-use goods. They dictate payment and procurement conditions. Do you, Mr. Minister, know the term "first delivery" to the trade chains? This is the first delivery, which requires the retail chains of these small and medium-sized producers to fill the shelves of these large megamarkets for free (no one is involved) and thus the owners of these large trade chains create extraprofits. Do you know, Mr. Minister, in what terms and conditions do large trading chains make payments? I had a debate with you here when you claimed that payment deadlines were on average, according to statistics, 78 days. But that's not true. Large trade chains pay for goods within 210 days or 240 days, even recently going to condition suppliers, small and medium-sized producers, to close their claims exclusively by compensation with goods for which these monopolies have installed large margins. Do you know they're conditioned at a price? The result of this monopoly is that the prices of our products are less in the environment than in these large trade chains. In the end, do you know how many of these suppliers, producers, due to the debt of trade chains, are unable to maintain their production and to be in debt with liquidity loans, and Mr Dinkic and the governor themselves have come out with the data that the greatest pressure is on these liquidity loans? What's their price? How many companies are in the blockade? How many workers who work in these small and medium-sized enterprises don't get paid? A lot of people are out of a job. The debt of only one large trade chain to suppliers is over 800,000 euros. The government is now, because it has allowed this to happen, a real action plan and a working team, headed by Minister Dinkic, who will deal with these problems. The fact is that you are doing everything under the influence of these large importers who have put pressure on the exchange rate, so in October there were 75 dinars and in December 95 dinars, that more than 2,400,000 euros were allocated, that you had to enter into an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund just to pay your commitments abroad. The fact is that here in the Assembly you adopted a transitional trade agreement, i.e. the SAA, which enables these large importers to come to the goods of broad consumption without regard to what is being obtained, under what conditions and thus asphyxiating our economy. It is not clear why the text relating to this substance is not fully understood in one place, but the proposings of individual provisions relating to concentration have processed art. From 17th to 19th, as well as Art. from 61 to 67 at the end of the law, unlike the one-stop-shops in the earlier proposal, this was covered by Art. From 21 to 30. When it comes to competition control bodies, i.e. on the Commission for the Protection of Competition, you highlight their independence in work, that is, the principle of independence. The proposed amendments, in particular through the selection of the Commission bodies, i.e. Councils and President-in-Office of the Commission, this is how the opinion of the profession is eliminated. I don't think that's good. What falls into the eyes here is that yesterday's regionalisation law has also been put on the agenda of this assembly under the pressure of those who put together this government, which already a month ago, at a meeting in a resort near Athens, came up with a concept of regionalisation of Serbia. All we need to do is look at which one of these big Serbian businessmen was at Mr. Tadic's dinner party during US Vice President Biden's visit. They, I've already said that to the Finance Committee, in this way, as you do business and as you allow them, put this country in a very awkward situation, and I'm afraid all citizens of Serbia will pull with them. What falls into the eyes of this law is that it has deliberately deviated from the full and detailed definition of abuse of dominant position as the greatest threat in the area of protection of competition. Instead of clearly defined text, the new proposal provides general provisions which can be interpreted in duplicate. It is the same situation with market participants, which is the most important item of the anti-monopol legislation, with the abuse of dominant position. I'm going to mention another great monopoliest that no one here has ever talked about. It is SBB, a cable TV that has a monopoly on information in Serbia and selectively releases certain TV stations on its cable. Mr. Minister, the DSS Parliament Club has proposed a number of amendments and DSS MPs will try today, in principle debate, to improve this bill to their suggestions. I expect you to adopt a number of our amendments, particularly those relating to the Commission's financing, because it is one of the revenues for the Commission's financing and printing and sales of publications. I personally know that a great monopoliesman got a certain location in one place because he printed a book to the director of a facility. It's a terrible possibility of abuse. Now I'd like to say something about the opinion of those who represent the Commission. The president of the Competition Protection Commission, Dijana Markovic-Bajalovic, has made objections to the limitation period, as this proposal reduces the limitation period from five to three years. She pointed out that the process of establishing a dominant position on the market should not be limited by law, and if it has to be limited, it should be a longer period, because the procedure can last for several years. The second remark by Ms Dijana Markovic-Bajalovic referred to the fact that this law provides for a warning measure, i.e. a warning from the Commission, if the breach is minor. I will quote her: “This leads to opportunities for the Commission to be accused of discrimination, because it punishes someone and only warns someone. ” Finally, Mr. Minister, one personal question -- do you feel responsible, besides the Government, for this situation where Serbia's economy, trade in Serbia, producers, workers, and, as a consequence, we have 112,000 businesses, over 60,000 entities in the blockade? Another, Mr. Minister, every month 10,000 workers are out of work; only since the beginning of the year has that figure reached 50,000 people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21888	The word has Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21889	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich, for your discussion. Since you asked a few questions, here, let me answer. First of all, it is true that the two laws of the Department of Trade's work, the Act on General Product Safety and the Law on Electronic Trade, are almost identical in text, with a very small one, I would say to technical, corrections compared to what the previous government has proposed to the Government and the Assembly for adoption. It is also true that we did so, if I remember correctly, in August or September of last year, that the government adopted these bill proposals and that from then until two or three weeks ago they were on hold and adopted as such. One part is true that it has been almost a year since these laws were passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but it is also true that only two or three months have passed since we took over the trade ministry, sent them to the government, the government adopted them and directed them to the Assembly. As for this law on the protection of competition, as well as the law on the protection of consumer rights and the law on trade, there have been serious changes compared to what Mr. Bubalo had suggested before. In particular, when it comes to the law on the protection of competition, it went to amendments and additions to the law, not to the new law. When we showed that everything that we had to change was put on paper, we saw that it was a lot of change and that it was more cellular to go with the new law than to change and supplement what was obviously impossible to fix in such a way. The law on trade - yes, we have inherited a law done, but it is also a fact that we have been in this strategy for the development of Serbia's trade, which has been in the making since 2002 or 2003, in the past few months significantly improved, primarily given the current developments in the previous two or three years which were not covered by the first material of the Serbian Trade Development Strategy. This is why we first went to the adoption of the Strategy, which the government adopted about three or four months ago, and only then, after the Strategy, do we work on a new law on trade. I can announce that since autumn that law will also come to the Assembly. The consumer rights law has been in co-operation with ZAP for several months now. The first draft of the law is divided by professional associations and the public, scientific and professional, and is already in some way in public discussion. We also expect that since autumn this law will be found in the congregation procedure. In other words, everything we could, the maltenes automatically, from the work of the previous invitation of the Ministry of Commerce to forward to the Assembly and adopt, we did. Where we found it necessary to intervene, where these interventions were bigger and more significant, we came up with a proposal for a new law, as is the case with this competition law. We're not running away from saying that a lot of what was done was good and good and good and in many places where it was done well we just kept going. As for the problems Mr. Jovanovic and Mr. Krasic mentioned, including you, with regard to the debt of traders to suppliers, and also with mutual debt-confidential relations between large and small traders, it is absolutely true that there is a problem. However, we did not produce the crisis here in Serbia, it is largely imported from the West because it is indeed a global phenomenon. Although you may have mentioned, perhaps a little with sarcasm, that it is not true that 78 days is the average payment time, I have to reassure you, you're wrong. It is an average time in which traders pay obligations to suppliers, but it is also a fact that these payment deadlines vary from a few days to 180 days and 200 days. It is true that in the structure of each store in the highest percentage are products of daily consumption, dozens of types of bread, flour, water, milk, meat, processing, and these are products that are relatively up-to-date, payment deadlines are 20, 30, 45 days. But it is also true that there are products, more permanent consumer goods, where the payment deadline is over 200 days, primarily for the reason that the frequency of purchase, or trade of these products, is very slow. This is largely due to the crisis, as most Serbian citizens find it difficult to buy permanent consumer goods, dishes, textile products, heavy alcoholic beverages and some products that usually have a high price. When this concentration of daily consumer products with shorter payment deadlines is placed in relation to a smaller number of items whose time limit is longer, this average is reached and it is indeed accurate. We are doing everything in our power to help manufacturing companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, but also other suppliers of large trade chains, and even smaller companies, to reconcile their obligations. The result of an agreement that came out of a meeting that was organised about ten days ago in Prime Minister Cvetkovic's cabinet (who, besides the prime minister, was attended by counterpart Dinkic, Diana Dragutinovic and me) is that the biggest traders with whom they concentrated and the biggest debts of their commitment are at rest by the beginning of July of this year, but, in order to be completely precise, the commitment through currency, i.e. over the contracted time limit for payment to suppliers. What is agreed deadline differs, depending on the supplier and the product, but the debt that is over the expiry of the payment deadline is the problem and we focus first and foremost on the problem. Because if we tried to regulate debt-confidential relations together, then there wouldn't be competition. One who has a more quality product, a larger trade, has a shorter payment period; one who has problems selling its product through trade chains has a longer period of payment. It's just that it's that nice market Darwinism. In other words, we are doing everything possible to resolve this difficult situation in which Serbian businessmen have found themselves. In the end, two measures programmes, in April and May of the month, were produced in a way from the government of the Republic of Serbia. These are loans to improve current liquidity, which many traders, especially those small, use. These are also loans at preferential interest rates, subsidized, for the completion of investments, for permanent crafts. We are simply doing everything in this situation to help the economy and to make the impact of the crisis as little as possible. You also mentioned the cable operator SBB. As far as I know, it is one of the procedures before the Commission. I don't know what kind of epilogue this is, but I do know that the Commission is dealing with this case, and I'm sure that certain decisions will be produced in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21890	National MP Milos Radulovic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21891	Mr. Minister, I've already explained what this 78-day average means. Statistics are a miracle. You know very well that all these small merchants, the STR, have to lay down guarantees that are charged within seven or 15 days and they're just affecting that average. You have monopolies that pay 250 days or 240 days, and these little ones have to lay down guarantees that are billable on the seventh or 15th days. As far as these laws are concerned, nothing is fair to the ruling majority, because just in August of the month, when the laws came here to the Assembly, the ruling majority, and it is known who seemed the ruling majority, could put the laws in the process. Once again I ask the question, what about the working group that examined the conditions for consumers and the structure and the price height? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21892	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21893	I'm sorry, I forgot, unwittingly, to answer that question. Simply, the task force was formed as one of the authorities of the previous government. As the previous government expired, so did the task force's mandate. That makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21894	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word at this time of the session when they have the right to speak? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS, LDP, G 17 plus, DSS, ZES, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. We are moving to a debate on the order of MPs and application for a word in principle on the proposal for a law on the protection of competition. The first word has a National MP, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21895	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that my colleague, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Group, has said a lot about the positions of the SPS-JS Parliament Club on this legislative proposal, I will try to be relatively brief. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal because, among other things, it improves one institutional capacity to apply competition rules, and above all by strengthening the role of the Commission for the Protection of Competition. This bill aims to protect consumers' interests. So this legislative proposal, as it is said, does not only concern the interest of the economy, but aims at a comprehensive economic progress of society. It is good that this legislative proposal is in line with EU rules in the area of prevention of monopoly and that it provides penalties for those who violate the law. Of course, the SPS-JS parliamentary group supports the fight against monopoly and monopoly. It is true that the protection of competition is one new substance in the domestic legal system, and we see this legislative proposal as a step further towards the rounding of an institutional legal framework. This legislative proposal, in our opinion, introduces qualitative changes in the system of competition protection. Once again, I would like to point out that we really believe that the introduction of order on the market is in the interest of, above all, consumers. We need, therefore, a national market, which must be open, but which must be, from the other side, and competitive. This legislative proposal, as is said among other things, transfers in a more precise and quality manner the relevant European Union law into the domestic legal system. Also, this is our obligation to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Of course, it should be said, this legislative proposal is in line with the rules on general product safety and electronic trade. We feel it is good that a public debate has been held on this legislative proposal and we really want to believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal will lead to the repair of Serbia's credit rating, that after the adoption of this law a good and positive signal will be sent to investors. It is true that this legislative proposal gives greater authority to the Commission both during and after the procedure, namely that a number of challenges are put forward before the Commission, and above all in order to improve the possibility of protecting competition on the Serbian market. It has already been said, the fine for law enforcement is up to 10% of the annual income. What may not be clear is the criteria under which the Commission will determine the amount of the fine. Otherwise, it is logical for this first sentence to be symbolic in order to warn the businessmen in a certain way. What is also clear is the fact that the specified time limit for payment of fines is also reduced. Finally, there may be another need to answer the question of how the Commission's funding is being financed. From what we understand, the Commission is being financed from the taxis itself, which it approves and prescribes by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we believe that this should be clarified and further specified. In the end, I want to repeat once again, the SPS-JS parliamentary club in the voting day will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21896	The People's Messenger Ivan Andric has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Vlajko Senić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21897	Good afternoon, honourable presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected ministers, as we said at the outset, the Liberal Democratic Party is ready to support this law, but we also said that we have some amendments, so I would take this opportunity to address these general objections. At first, I'd like to say that we've been very detailed in comparing this law to the previous one. Progress is visible when it comes to this law. None of the experts we consulted had a single word against the provisions of the laws governing future business. As Mr Ostojić and Mr Jovanovic have said, we have a point of view, i.e. when it comes to something we would call – the situation found. If we view this law as a measure that will apply to future business relations in the economy, we have to say that, apart from this part of public enterprises, we have no significant problems. We have submitted an amendment that will, in a certain way, shape the existence or necessity of monopoly by public enterprises. When we drew up this amendment, we consulted experience and tried to put it first through application in the electricity industry, looking at this example and the way in which a monopoly in the electricity sector could be solved in the future, because we think that this amendment, among other things, applies most to it. What is the problem, and this is not the first time we have laws from the government, is the question – how does this harmonisation with the EU end up in Serbia? If we say that part of the law refers to what the European Commission directives are in the EU, and that's okay, then we come to that field that is problematic – how can it be implemented in Serbia? We have already warned several times that it is dangerous for Serbia's European integration to be compared and based solely on the work of this parliament, because all the experiences of transition countries and those that have become part of the EU have shown that key problems of harmonisation or harmonisation are not in the making of laws, but later, in their implementation. The very setting at the beginning is diametrically opposite. The European Commission is looking after a market of 350,000 people, with a number of national markets. In Serbia, the exact opposite is, I have to define it as catastrophic. Monopolies in Serbia are jeopardising every kind of progress Serbia has made. Monopolies in Serbia exist, they are a topic everywhere except in the Serbian Parliament. At the very least, we find it problematic that the state of Serbia will deal with these monopolies using this law. I'll give you an example. According to the current proposal, anyone can submit an initiative to the Commission, which should examine the existence of a monopoly. That's how we interpret the law. However, there is absolutely a possibility that the Commission is not acting under the law, or that I should use it in a broader expression in Serbia. Our concrete proposal is that the Commission, like some other institutions, must inform the applicant of the outcome of the initiative within 15 days, of a kind of written notification. In our opinion, it is a kind of pressure on the Commission to comply with these requirements. As they will act, that responsibility is on the Commission. On the other hand, the authority of that body, which has already existed and will continue to exist, even in this form, in the next period is discriminatory. You yourself said that the Commission has the opportunity to propose certain rules to the Government to enable the implementation of this law. There is no government obligation to adopt you, which is impossible. That's got to be meant. It's our proposal, if we're already building one body and we're kind of drawing a line together, to put together the effort and give the body the authority we need by leaving certain things to that body to work. In particular, concrete remarks refer to Article 6 – the relevant market. It says here that the government is nearing the criteria. We see no reason why these criteria are not prescribed by the Commission. What is particularly dangerous is Article 13 – exemption from the prohibition by categories of agreement. The final view is also that the government determines categories of agreements and makes specific conditions closer. In our opinion, that too must be the Commission's jurisdiction. Of course, we have an objection to the Commission's work itself. Article 64 says, final position: "According to the request for approval under Article 3 of this Article, the President of the Commission shall decide. “ Why are special powers given to the President of the Commission? Or is that just a technical reason? I'm asking because in other laws we haven't met such a solution. This should be clarified and made clear to everyone that the Commission is making decisions at its meetings, so it is normal that it will sign the President of the Commission, there is no one else. What this law also lacks, said Cedomir Jovanovic, is a new category that we have proposed, which is called – an important part of the market. We also took the definition from the EU, and this is what we called it: An important part of the relevant market involves a specific geographical area where the product is placed on the market and where the conditions of competition are sufficiently homogeneous for the economic power of the participants whose position is being examined. In our opinion, if we're talking about a monopoly, the absolute symbol is "Delta", or "Ce Market", or what is already called the big trade chain. Serbia's territory is unacceptable to us. We don't think the relevant market defines this part enough. We ask that a small part of the total market be seen. I hope no one expects consumers to leave Belgrade to buy yogurt and bread in Valjevo. An important part of the market must be one that makes sense. This is the best definition we've ever found. Of course, we're ready to talk about it. Since we don't have much time, we're going to talk a little bit closer about all this when the amendments come to order, but I have to say that the key thing, the fundamental doubt, is the way this law is going to be implemented. I think you can see good intentions from writing the law, but it's a matter of choosing the commission here in parliament. It scares us a lot in a way. So we've had the last experience with the Anti-Corruption Commission, whatever it's called. At the very least, the Commission has been chosen in a scandalous way, and the authority of these people is such that no one in the opposition voted for the representatives of the authorities, no one in the authority for the representatives of the opposition. So, at the very beginning, that commission was disabled and immediately after the election of that commission, if I am not mistaken, one member of the Commission resigned, it is Sonja Licht, because of the way she was elected. I think the main job of curbing the monopoly is yet to come, and I think it's dangerous to spread the illusion that this law will solve something. We think that until now there has been a basis to suppress the monopoly, here it has been discussed, not to a sufficient extent, first of all, the Delta company, but there was no political or any other authority of the Commission to contain the monopoly. That is why we think that the behaviour of the Serbian government and the ruling majority in this case is crucial. I think life will answer that. Mr. Miskovic, it is already clear today, will have a choice to end or as a failed businessman at the end, or as Bogoljub Karic, a man who lives somewhere in exile and no one knows where he is, but we think it's bad because of 20,000 (or over 20,000) people who work in that company. That's why we think any spontaneity in suppressing it is extremely bad. That is why we have extraordinary expectations, both of this law and of its implementation. It is certain that ours, but we also believe that the eyes of many Serbian citizens will be paid attention to the work of this commission, but also to the support that the commission has from the Serbian government. That's the point. So, in the end, the law is good. If you accept our amendments, he will, in our opinion, be better. But the essential work, the key, does not stop by the date of adoption of this law, but in a certain way it is just beginning, and the will must be much greater, since in recent months we have been able to see in all the means of public information that tycoons (i.e. monopolies, by this law) have penetrated deeply into all the spheres of this society, and certainly in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21898	The word has Dr. Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21899	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Andric, I'll start where you're about to end up. The criterion of success will be the application of this law in practice, not what is written, but how this law will be applied in practice. If there is success, then we will be able to say that we, the Ministry and Government, and you, the National Assembly, who supported and adopted this law, have produced a good result. What I didn't particularly point out, and after a few discussions, I think I should because there seems to be a misunderstanding with you in the LDP, is what the relevant market is. Nowhere does it say that the relevant market is the market for the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, the relevant market will be established from case to case. If there's a store on your street that sells mostly yogurt and bread, it's true that you go shopping with them, but if you decide to buy for example. Car or, God, plane tomorrow, you'll go where it's cheaper, you'll go to Novi Sad, and Nis and I don't know where else. We did not "knock" this law that the relevant market is the Republic of Serbia's market. If, in terms of your discussion, and Mr Ostojić and Mr Jovanovic's discussions, you have given quality amendments, we do not mind explaining where it can be more quality and applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21900	Thank you. The word is Mr. Andric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21901	I hope I wasn't vague. Simply, that definition exists. It's exactly what you said, we agree. We do not think that we should allow any "hole" through which something can happen. So, first of all, by studying these parallel solutions, we came to this definition. It does not mean that anything under this law is removed, but only to add one piece to the basic principles at the very beginning and later, of course, in all amendments. So there's been a lot of controversy earlier about it, just specifically about the Ce Market, what's all the count and how it counts. One part of that doubt removes the definition of the relevant market, but we think that there must be a more precise part, we simply took it over from the part of EU legislation; while we are discussing the amendment itself I can even say from where, I think it is the definition of a court dealing with a single competition process. To avoid any dilemma, it is an indisputable desire (or at least a principle wish) to deal with monopolies. Our idea is to say that monopolies have grown much in our society and this struggle today is disproportionately difficult than it could have been two or three years ago. So, we see today that this is a Delta company, from jokes that say it will be called Serbia when Kosovo and Metohija split off, so it will be called Delta, to real problems seen every day, how many small and medium-sized suppliers depend on the company... I see that in earlier discussions, there has been talk of only some price or benefit that consumers have, but you are a professor and you understand that the problem with monopolies is much more complex. So, there is no competition; this internal debt chain, which is scandalous in Serbia, starts however with a monopolies (in our opinion, monopolies, then the Commission did not establish it), so from the state, then beyond "Delta", but when the "Delta" was not a healthy company. What is happening today is precisely the result of this position that this company had in our society, which was undefined. We are against the state being in a position, and this situation is getting closer, to face this company in the way that it faced the BK company, so that it is destroyed within seven days, that it does not exist. We are aware that the state has that power, but then we will have a problem with twenty-thousand people who work in that company and who have nothing to do with it, I don't think 18,000 of them have ever seen Miroslav Miskovic, let alone have any connections; these are normal people who work. Not to mention a number of doubts as to why our market in this large chain system is suffering because the monopoly "Ce Market", as much as the company has given up entering the new market because it meant conflict with some of the most powerful people in Serbia. So that's all the consequences. (President: Time. I'm sorry, one more sentence. I hope we can talk outside the O.R. about the essence of our amendments, and I'm sure you won't have any problem with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21902	Mr. Vlajko Senic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21903	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable MPs, what is first stated in the name of each law, or reasoning, is the need to pass the law for the sake of European integration and entry into the European Union. I think it's important, but we shouldn't live in some sort of illusion that, specifically in this area, things in the EU are working perfectly and that there are no competition problems there, that there are no monopoly problems. On the contrary, it is an area that is controversial in the European Union, and there are different influences and desires of businessmen to achieve as good a position as possible, but there is also a final word of the commission dealing with the same business, its enormous powers and the inability to take from any other structures outside that commission affecting its decision. I think this bill is an obvious improvement in relation to the law that was passed four years ago, because we had four years of practice with this issue. I think that through this practice we have seen the indiscretions of the law, that is, the inability to implement it in the way that it's all imagined when it's written. I am sure that once we adopt this law and go into its implementation, we will see potential shortcomings, as it is said -- holes in the law, which can always serve as a place to avoid what the legislator wanted to set in his text of the law. It's a normal thing, which is why there are law-amending institutions, which is why there's a possibility, when it's estimated that one law is not good enough, to bring a new one. What is very important to me is the fact that this topic is present in the public, that through this assembly debate, we are informing the Serbian public that the government is taking care of this area and that it is doing what is in its power to regulate the area of protection of competition in the best possible way. I don't think it's a good approach to pass this law if we expect that only its adoption will bring proper quick and easy solutions and that we will have concrete companies that will be victims of this law. I don't think there's often enough talk about that there are different situations, there's a dominant position, and there's also the abuse of a dominant position. So the very fact that someone in an area has a dominant position does not automatically mean that it is a problem and that it is a violation. That's exactly why the law's being passed. I think it's quite precise what it means to be dominant and, more importantly, what it means to be abused and how it's sanctioned. It is also good that a large number of different institutions are involved in the selection of the Commission. For me, the Commission is, in fact, a key institution that should be the result of the adoption of a new law. I believe that the involvement of the competent assembly committee is a good thing, because in this way we will be able to consider any misunderstandings that will arise in the Serbian Assembly, if there is ever any kind of suspicion that the government is not doing its job well or that the Commission is not doing its job well. I am sure that proof that the Commission is doing its job well will be that neither the Commission nor the members of the Commission will be in the public and the media in the future. I think it's a specific kind of job, which means that it's done by people who are well-trained and who need to solve the problem, not the need to have publicity. I don't think the public is sufficiently familiar with the problems, the methodology, and it's not so easy to establish someone's position on the market, whether they use it or abuse it, and how to prove it. In this regard, I think that the state must encourage the Commission and the Commission's professional services to improve and train the people who will be working in the next few decades. I am saying this because the political parties that make up the government today and the political parties that are going to make the government tomorrow must show that they are not interested in the work of the Commission. In this way, the Government will demonstrate its willingness for the Commission to do its job on its own and to make decisions in accordance with economic parameters and with the methodology under which it works, not on the basis of the public's expectations or the pressure of a party in power or opposition. All of us here together should turn to the past and see that often the issue of any economic developments in Serbia was more a means for certain political accounts than it was aimed at really introducing order into an area in Serbia's economy. In particular, I would point out two things: that the capacity of the Commission's work was increased, and therefore the Commission's authority was raised, and one provision was thrown out, which slowed down the work of the Commission and caused the accumulation of cases – this is a matter of concentration thresholds and the need for the Commission to deal with certain cases that were clearly without any problems and that the Commission should not waste time there. As far as the law is concerned, he is, above all, like any law that is passed, facing the future. So I don't think that we should live in the illusion that the problems of the monopoly, the dominant position and its abuse were not or were possibly just until 2003, 2005 or this year. I am sure that this problem will be even more serious in the future and that the Commission's challenges will be much greater; that is, the need for proper work, knowledge, techniques to prove it will be much more challenging than before. I also believe that solving the problems that are often said here will be possible through certain accompanying sublaws, but above all, as the minister said, I think it is a really good thing to pass a new law on trade, one area which, with all the problems being followed, has proved to be the most growing area in Serbia in the past eight or nine years. So the growth rates were almost twice as high as the GDP growth rate in Serbia in the last eight or nine years. When we hear about the problems of small or medium-sized companies, the fact is that if there is a hypermarket in the vicinity of several kilometers, as if an atomic bomb had fallen, that small and medium-sized commercial enterprise was disappearing, but that is not the case only in Serbia, it happens in other countries. I would also say that the Trade Development Strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is giving answers to these issues as well. No market can exist, consumers cannot be satisfied just by going to supermarkets or hypermarkets. In this strategy, there is an answer to the question of how some regional leaders can appear, in which they can fill these market niches, which certainly cannot be filled exclusively by large trade chains. There will also be room for "intervention" of the state, to the extent it will not disrupt competition. This is a time of great economic crisis and the state should not run away from its role in the economy. If all the countries in the European Union do so, if they do so in the United States, if today on the economic market is the safest player in the country – only what the state wants to buy or investors are interested in buying is what the state wants to sell – it does not need the state, and therefore the Serbian Government, to bow down to the pressure of some kind of political attack that the state should not do anything, ever. I think it's good for the economy when the state is as little involved in its flows as possible, but this time is such that if the state doesn't engage in economic flows, it really threatens the possibility of a complete economic collapse. I think the role of the state is justified in all areas of the economy today, to the extent that it contributes to repairing the bad situation. That is why I believe that the adoption of this law, especially if the adoption of the law is followed by the support of the majority, which is not limited to parties that make up the ruling coalition, will be a good thing in Serbia and will open the space to send a clear message as to how the market in Serbia will be regulated in the future. It is good that the members of the Commission will be elected as specified. It is good that certain professional, scientific and other qualifications are sought for people who should work in the Competition Protection Commission, because the responsibility of these people is enormous. The expectations are great, what we need to enable them, it is to pass this law, to respect this process, to vote for the people I believe will be able to do, if this is indeed so, with certain support from professional services, with financial support, in a more efficient way, in terms of access to information, documents, etc., to let this commission do its job in such a way as to ensure that its duration, work and value are not linked to any government, nor to this government that is in power today in Serbia. It's obvious that these things are being fixed. I am sure that the Commission for the Protection of Competition in the coming years will grow, in the most positive sense, into one of the most powerful agencies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose word will be heard and which will have its weight and credibility. Of course, we will support this bill's proposal, with the willingness to talk to other political parties and to correct amendments that are not sufficiently explained so that we can have as much support as possible for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21904	Thank you, Mr. Senic. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21905	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I'm going to start with a few very striking facts that are at least very striking to me and it's important for me to start with them. What I find very strange is the fact that you have waited – when I say you are thinking of both the congregation and the government in the government, I see that you are transferring the ball and responsibility to each other, but we from the opposition can notice it – a year of the procedure here in the Assembly finds a set of laws from the area of trade, and a set of those laws that have been fully prepared, which have passed the procedure. Since I was an MP in the last term, I can say that all these laws have entered the assembly procedure. It's very strange to have these laws delayed in this way for a year. I mean, they were good laws. Some of them have also been adopted in an integrated form. I also want to say that they are fully in line and in line with the Action Plan on Harmonisation of Regulations with the EU, which means that at a time when these laws were prepared, and this is the government of Vojislav Kostunica, it worked exactly that way, unlike this government. I am talking about the field of environmentalism, where of the 15 laws that were before us in the six laws that allegedly corrected this relationship with EU legislation is actually broken, of course, to the harm of our legislation; and in the area of agriculture I also have facts. It is no wonder that for a year it was necessary for such an inefficient, massive government, in which it obviously has an awful lot of interest, but no interest is in Serbia, to bring two laws into line, into the procedure and at the end of the vote, and they belong to this set of fully prepared laws. It's about the General Product Safety Act and the Electronic Trade Act. What does it mean, a waste of time for a year to tell you that you're in a hurry and that you're in a hurry to be disturbed by the opposition? So, about two things: either the laws you had in front of you were so bad that you had to write them all over again, respecting the fact that you would spend a lot of money on fees and the law-writing team, the public debates and the rest, or they were good (as I see they are, because you prescribe them) and you wait for some time to come after that to say that these laws are what you have prepared. This law before us is obviously such an example. What else do I mean, what else does it fall into my eyes? In the set of laws before us, there was also the Consumer Protection Act. The bill of law at the time was one of the first, pioneering laws to regulate that area and the relationship between consumers... We are all, in the end, consumers; it is one of the widest layers, the largest social group, which has about the least rights, which is completely depreciated. On the other hand, this relationship is also made up of those who are monopolies, many of whom have been told this occasion and who obviously use their monopoly position to earn a lot of money and, to the detriment of consumers, to live very well. Mr. Minister mentioned that this law is being done right now. I don't know why it's working again. I'd like you to tell me what the problem was in that part of it. Another thing that we as the DSS Parliamentary Group mentioned, to which we received a response that was neither there nor here, is that working group formed by Vojislav Kostunica, a working group for establishing the height and structure of the prices of basic life supplies in the former government. I happen to have information that this task force has come up with. These are data that quite clearly indicate certain monopolies. What any smart government (obviously not that) would retain as a good practice and as something to boast about, and these are the results of this task force, this government has actually abolished, as Mr Djelic and Mr Milosavljevic have abolished this task force. We heard the argument now – the previous government fell, all the bodies it formed should be repeated. It's been a year, there's no other task force, and there's no result that this first group, which has done very well, has left in the inheritance, and it may be necessary for consumers to hear something about it. Why shouldn't consumers hear? Because it is an obvious goal of this ministry and this government that this layer and this large group of consumers are completely dissipated and that at their expense and at the expense of all Serbian citizens, who are consumers, there is someone living who is a monopolies. When we talk about strange ways and strange ways that things are retreating and disappearing, I have to talk about the law of trade. He was also in front of MPs in the previous term. It's a very important and great law, and by the scope of the great law. It's a system-based roof law for all other laws in the area of trade. And he went through a complete procedure as soon as he was in the Assembly. And he's magically withdrawn, and now we hear—it's done. According to information I have, it's precisely these jobs that are in charge of a person who can't pass such an important law, that I don't enter family relations, which are interesting, too. As a confirmation of what I'm saying about this waste of time for a year, about the loss of energy and especially the money of Serbian citizens, I can say that today this law is an ideal example. It's a law on the protection of competition. The previous government did it very well. He had a lot of elements, over 90% of the fully written text is in this law. He experienced the fate of these laws that I was talking about – he was withdrawn, now he's back in front of us, with some cosmetic changes. In fact, I may have used the wrong word, these changes are not cosmetic in that part that will harm the citizens of Serbia. What does that year's delay mean? It is, gentlemen, the year that the monopolies were given to use the money of Serbian citizens, to fully protect the gardens; that is the year that Serbian citizens received as a very difficult year, in which the government, with this energetic prime minister, has been passing such important laws within a year. These changes that I've been talking about, which are really individual revisions, are cosmetic in terms of the size of the law and the relationship of what's been fixed, but they're not negligible at all, because they actually show what this government's goal is and this ministry's goal is. They are such that they should cloud what is clearly defined and conceived and allow for good mixing. What's this about? It is, in fact, two of the most important items of any anti-monopol legislation. It's about how the dominant position is defined, and I have previous laws ahead of me, so I see what's different, in Articles 16 - 20 of that text that we had as MPs before this government and this proposal. What's also problematic is defining the concentration of market participants. We can also track and compare members from 21st to 30th in the preceding text with members from 17th to 19th in this text. It is amazing that this second part of “Concentration of market participants” is divided into some two parts of this law, so it seems to me that it is precisely the intention of this blurry that has been reinforced, because it would be logical that something that is one item you can follow in one part of the law. It would just be easier if you followed it. We can talk about this, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted a large number of amendments to this law. We'll talk about it when we talk about these amendments, but what we DSS MPs have heard here from the government's representatives is that you continue to sell the fog. Everything that is the theory of this government on television sounds wonderful, in this beautiful lighting hall, clean and shiny, everything looks wonderful, but when you get out of it and you get into the first store you come across, when you go into a hypermarket, when you look at "The mouth," "Delta" markets and everything else, you see that all of what DSS MPs are telling you is living on the other side, so when you go into real life. Serbian citizens know very well why this law in these two parts, on the dominant position and concentration of market participants, should be clouded. Gentlemen, monopolies, tycoons, both our and our sides, with whom some of our ministers love to be photographed, to defend them from not having a monopoly position, have formed this government. This government must repay them. That is why these revisions and in the near text will cost Serbian citizens a great deal in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21906	Thank you. Mrs Natasa Vukkovic. He's not here. ) Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic. He's not here. ) Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21907	It is interesting that the law on the protection of competition or, in order to glegonically call it, the law on the fight against monopoly actually contains specifics that monopolise the work of a commission that should fight the monopoly. The principled question that I would open before explaining the arguments for which you will surely understand that they are completely in place is this: this law was not brought long ago and the observed difficulties in its implementation could indeed be changed by the very amendments and additions of the Law. It is easier for us MPs to follow the integral text when we have the law in general, however, there were no such huge objections at all to the Law itself that they could not be realised by changes and additions. It's not pure form. We all know that when it comes to the new law, some new commission is being hired to draft that law, it must be passed and we are being charged, as a society and a state, certain vanity, costs, learned people, their attitudes that are very exclusive and should be part of the law. What I want to resent, and I'm really surprised that no one has talked about it before, except for my colleague Andric, who mentioned it in one part, is that the President of the Commission (he asked, and I claim) raised to the pedestal as the only address which is of many things, and inadmissible alone, asks and decides. So, if it's a law on the protection of competition, that's it. The fight against monopoly, it is amazing that the Commission is working for you in one period of time and does not apply the law itself – nor does it appoint a director to organise the work of the professional service, nor does he establish a deputy president of the Commission at all times. I'll be understood by anyone who's employed in any company. Is it natural for you that someone who manages, directs the work of a professional service in an authority, a company, a company, a company, does not have the obligation of permanent employment in that body, and has the exclusive right to decide, manage, represent, well, as Mr. Andric said, and sign the solution? Please, I absolutely don't know the people we're talking about, I'm looking at the law and my motive to talk about it is the only benefit we need to get everyone. I repeat, the law was in force, neither was the Director of the Commission, nor did the Vice President have one. To my great surprise, when I opened this bill, it first entered my eyes the right of the President of the Commission to appoint in absentia someone to replace it. We said, we're choosing members of the Council, I'm going to speak in principle about this choice, but we don't choose the president and the members, so it's known right away that he's smarter, more professional, more authorized than those other members. To monopolies your own position, in the form of someone who makes such decisions, who carries a very serious material weight for a particular company and for employees of that company, and for all of us as consumers, to put ourselves in a position to ask themselves – I simply don't understand it. Every smart man says that two people see better and that they'll talk to someone and advise on the simplest decision of the day, and I won't say the most serious thing. We've done it with an amendment by proposing that, like, for example. The Securities Commission, this body has a secretary who will take care of the work of the professional service, answer to the members of the Council, the Council as an authority, not an individual, and then try to like it. I'm sure you'll adopt those amendments. One more thing, it's unreasonable to miss the definition of the Council's resolution, so the way in which it's been notified of the reasons to change these responsible people who need to decide the important things, like Article 24 here said. I believe that you have a lot of work to do, that you have not been able to see all this, but it is amazing to say that "the setting up of reasons for the termination of the term of office", means, over time, the resolution for the reasons provided for in the law, "is being determined by the relevant assembly committee". Do you know we spend 12 hours a day here? He's leaving these committees at the last minute, he's coming back, so is the board supposed to dream, know, assume and think when some of the conditions for resolution came along? Or, inability to perform a duty, which is resignation, retirement, loss of business -- is it hard to say that someone has to inform, that a written document is directed by someone from the Commission, at the time of the creation of that reason, by the committee that has to decide on it? I cannot say that the law is not good, the law largely follows what the EU directives are, is the result of modern achievements, but the failure of certain things that allow for the silence of the administration, as the people can call it, the keeping of the case in a drawer, the most important thing, when it comes to the members of the Commission, must simply be resolved by adding a single sentence, where the competent Trade Committee is informed of the occurrence of these circumstances. Please, there is no way to resolve these people we choose in the process, which is very precise as the authority of the Trade Committee. I don't want to ask, Mr. Minister, why you didn't predict how this house, this assembly, this body can resolve members of the Commission doing an important and responsible job. There's no law to that solution. We have proposed an amendment that the Commission can be resolved when no report is adopted which is required to deliver. It's an evaluation of her work. If we don't adopt her report where she's been showing us how she's been working, we'll resolve them the way the board has named them. We have also provided for a procedure that twenty MPs can launch a motion for resolution, so that it does not happen at numerous sessions of the Assembly of Themes, the agenda will be rerouted to the Commission's relations with some major monopolies because... Yes, the LDP has done very often, had no other way to initiate a procedure to resolve the members of the Commission at the time when they think that something is wrong with them, not to apply the law or not to apply it well. Whether the parliamentary group has that number of members does not matter at all, let it single out, persuade, make arguments to fellow Members of the Assembly, to gather enough MPs and initiate procedures. I hope we can talk about it this way according to the amendments. So the basic criterion that I would trust someone, as a congregation, with the right to do something is to establish frameworks, give them a good law, a law that can apply and make them have responsibility for decisions that they will make in accordance with the law that they need to apply. This law is a good framework, but can I say that I should vote for it if you say that the government will be closer to laying down criteria for determining the relevant market? Well, I understand the need to make the rules, the various decisions that follow the laws, and that the laws are not burdened with too much detail, but if that's one of the first settings of this law, as the relevance is estimated, I would really like to have the opportunity to appreciate it. Because what you're making as regulations, regulations, decisions, it's only left for those studios and with enough time, who manage to see it but have no way of affecting it. I think of us MPs and I think of those interested who can't change that through a congregation debate, but maybe they can do it in some other way. I'm not ashamed to talk about these ways directly. One who encounters an obstacle called instruction, regulation or decision will always reach for corruption as a way to skip that obstacle. Take off that opportunity and the burden for you, as an individual and as a government, leave 250 people here about to give their court; you may not notice what that kind of criterion looks like, we may not comment, but you will always be able to say - we gave you an insight and you could plead. Why am I talking about it this way? Every organ, important and important, depends on the law, but depends on the people. You have people who come into office and possess expertise and personal and moral credibility and inviolability. It's an ideal combination of good law and people who draw their power out of their profession and apply it to decisions made by this commission, but is that always the case? Do we often have a situation, through other regulatory bodies and organs, where power is simply being drained from function and where not many arguments and arguments are given for the decision being made, but said - I am the authority, I am right, I decide? And this can be warned by the precision of these missing provisions. Now I want to point out the diversity of motives when we talk about this law. I would never call this law "Delta" law. Many, and when they don't say it, and when you don't talk about it, they call it that. There is a question of motive for discussing this law, which motivates us as MPs when we talk about it, and why are we as a society motivated by such a law? We are as a society motivated to pass a law that will allow chocolates not to cost much more than in the environment, and we had a case or, even better example, that medicines don't cost much more in Serbia than in the surrounding countries, that I can buy coffee in beans and not just ground coffee, because I like to drink coffee in grain. It means that consumers have the option to choose products and prices. Is it only in this law or does monopolising wholesale importers bring us these trade chains that are subject to it? My conclusion – motive for discussing this and our obligations as a body that decides to carry out the competition consistently, as you have proposed by the Foreign Trade Act, as it will be in the State Aid Control Act, may already be in the debate today, but not in a way that first is a problem for us, which is a domestic enterprise that may have a participation that we can undertake under the law unauthorized. So, I can't just defend the principle without realizing that I have to defend myself and that I have economic nationalism which means that I defend my consumer first, where I know that he uses quality raw materials and buys quality goods, where I'm not even willing to see what additives, colors and smells look like in some food, and I'm sure my domestic producer doesn't have enough money for that. So I can't defend it equally, as you do through laws, general liberalisation and competition; I must, as responsible states, defend first domestic producers and find domestic products on the shelves of our trade chains. This law must respect how it works in one part of the Public Procurement Act, and no one forbids us. I can't say that private companies in America are better than our private companies because their third-generation richsters in the third generation are also the descendants of postage robbers and bank robbers whom I won't say we admire, but who we remember from cowboy movies. And why are our rich people worse? We need to determine the origin, to make it impossible for them to get rich by law, but, Mr. Minister and gentlemen MPs, citizens of Serbia, we must not allow someone to be afraid to become rich, not to be rich in any way, but to become rich in honest work or because they were born under a happy star. Because those who are so pointing at the finger that they are rich, they are always the object of robbers, from whom they are protected or not protected by security doors and cameras, but very often and deliberately they are the object of the robbers without masks, those who have no hoods on their heads and the object of racketing of those who have a public word. Against this, I will always fight consistently from the Forward Serbia Parliament Club, because many people are exposed to such a kind of racket that anyone who has the right to make a public word in the paper, knows about the pay phone, without argument and unjustly, and with the last thought, to attack. We can't let that happen. Mr. Minister, we must not even allow the crime of white collars to be detached here and it to be seen through an unmade law, through a deliberately forgotten position, or through deliberately unrecorded criteria for the implementation of this law. I have the right to say this. This is the mentioned Mr. Beko, whom I haven't seen in ten years, was my colleague in the government. This isn't a personal story, we've performed public functions as ministers. I was Minister for Economic and Property Transformation, and Mr. Beko was Minister without portfolios. At the time, he thought he would be able to go undetected, to recapitalize the company Dalia without the money being paid, because Mr Kljajevic registered in court his intention to invest as an investment. Mr Luka Mitrovic, Minister of Industry and I as Minister for Economic and Property Transformation, with the permission of the Deputy Prime Minister of Seselj and Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic, have launched the suit and annulled our fellow minister's contract, who wanted to invest as an investment. Many living contemporaries and witnesses of this event from the government and other parties exist today. In "The Official Messenger", the cancellation and recapitalisation of "Dalius" was carried out. Not much has been written about it in the papers, because discreet people solve problems not by destroying an institution and a man, but by solving a problem. We did it that way. I don't attack anyone who's rich just because they're rich, and I'm not rich, because I measure wealth with different criteria; I attack the arguments of one who's rich because he thinks we're ignorant, not brave enough to point to their violation of the law. We have to stamp it and stop it, and you know it in what way? That this commission, in the field with you, is bringing such punishments that they should fear and act detimulatively, that they don't do anything like that. I have not seen anywhere in the context of the law of the Commission's decision, based on which I could judge that the observed practice of breaking the law is now embedded in the procedure. You said that some objections were built in, but the decisions of this committee, which will prove their credibility, good intentions, expertise and strength of personality, did not have the opportunity to see, but I want to believe. They say there are three branches of government in one country: the legislative one that we represent; the executive one that you represent; the courts that should judge those who do not comply with the laws that we adopt, you propose to the greatest extent, but that the fourth pillar of each society – the fight against monopoly and the protection of competition. Each of us must make a real and significant contribution to this struggle by not being dissatisfied with its own position, to criticise those who work and want to enlarge something in this country, but rather, that those people who make all these laws begin with us, feel this improvement. I'm a consumer first, because I'm a woman and a mother, who doesn't go to those "storms" in which those who don't know what to do with their Sunday or Saturdays pray. I think we should live a decent life, which today is not easy to live even when you work in some public enterprise that I work in, and I know how those who are supposed to buy in those trade chains that are the biggest object of the attack here. Did anyone here say how much you appreciate it, for example? "Merkator" in Novi Sad, is it the subject of some competition, if it has a huge market chain in the city center of Lyman, and does anyone on the city's periphery have a huge complex of trade chains in the same position as the one in the city center having almost wholesale? Is that covered by this law? Is that what a person should think about? You should. Only when we know that each of us is doing our job can citizens expect this job to be done in their favor, and we want to make a contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21908	Thank you. Mr Milan Vučković has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21909	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, consumer protection and competition protection are in itself a dynamic and complex process, and therefore the amendment of the law that comes four years after the adoption of the law which, in some ways, is the first time the protection of competition in our country is quite normal, especially because a number of illogicalities and irregularities have been observed in the application of that law itself. This law puts an ordinary citizen in its focus. Although he treats businesses, legal entities, state authorities, he puts into focus ordinary citizens and his need to, as noted counterpart Tabakovic said, have cheaper chocolate, to have cheaper products, to have better quality. Better quality is made possible, first of all, by competition. Competition drives those who are producers, those who are traders to improve. Without competition, people, their bodies, their brains and their work, tend to get lazy. If we have a monopoly in the production of any product, we can't have a real criterion based on which we determine the value of that product. If we have this paper and we're the only producers of that paper, we can sell it at any price, if it's necessary for citizens. That is why it is necessary to develop competition, which is why this law is aimed at the well-being of every Serbian citizen. He's very clear and unequivocal and he's not here to cloud anything. Even for me, as someone who's read that law more than once, he's been boring to read because he's very normal and sets clear limits and limits on all those who suspect the state's intention to deal with monopolies. First of all, he gives "tooths", as the minister said yesterday, to the competition protection commission. The Commission has so far existed, but when it saw certain changes exist, that there are certain infringements of the principle of competition, that there is a monopoly, it was able to make some warnings and leave the case to the judicial authorities, to file a report with the competent authority, thus losing the operation of this commission, so it is very good that the Commission has received certain operational measures which can unequivocally disclose what is the concentration, i.e. the monopoly. When I talk about it, I mean the notion of deconcentration, or the breakup of a relationship between companies. Such a possibility enables the Commission to terminate such a contract if, in an unauthorized manner, the concentration is established on a given market and to return everything to the previous situation or even to order the sale of shares that are thus associated. The defined threshold for control of concentration was also a major lack of existing law. Under the old law, the concentration threshold is set at a level of 10m euros for the concentration of domestic entities and 50m euros for the integration into which one foreign entity participates. This has now been changed and raised to a higher level, to 20m euros or 100m euros when it comes to a foreign entity, which in some ways reduces the burden that the Commission must address a large number of cases that de facto do not threaten competition in our market. There's something this law doesn't contain, and I think that should contain future law on trade. I would like to draw attention to a problem that has long been seen in the developed world, in the European Union; it is known in theory and I think in practice. That's what they're called. Predator prices, when a powerful entity enters the market, lowers the price of the product below the level of cost, other market participants cannot withstand those prices, they are not paid to do business, they are withdrawn from the market, and then whoever entered with those low prices suddenly raises prices to a level that suits them and thus exploits citizens and our market. I think one of the future laws dealing with competition or trade law should regulate, in a way, this term of predatory prices. For all of this, I propose that the MPs of this law vote as soon as possible, and if there is a need for it to be changed later on, it can change. And we expect to see sublaws from the government within four months, as agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21910	Thank you, Mr. Vukkovic. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21911	I'm going to try to give the public a little more detail as to why such a bill will not solve those issues that are important and should be subject to this law. How to prevent monopolitical communication on our market? Can we pass the law and solve the problem? Can we determine the state authorities, the police, the army, the cavalry and prevent such agreements? We can't. Is there any way that the Commission can stop it? He can't. We can't stop the state that's headed that chain and we can't stop those that are already formed. We now have several systems of companies that have everything united, from raw materials to payment card: bought land, processed it, bought seeds, imported it, produced seeds, bought food industry, produced final products, sold large sales, sold through their retail chain, pulled out living money, funded the construction of apartments, where the profits are much bigger than the margarine, had their own bank, had their own insurance company, and, if there is little money left, had an investment fund where they would hide that money. We've got a few of those systems. The DOS has accepted a South American concept of market economy development, which means that five or ten families hold everything in a country, and these small and small ones are there as pickers to play the free market, equality, competition presence and to function large. It is a public secret that large trade chains, those with small facilities, self-services, hypermarkets, and even large centres, especially when it comes to eating, are for the first time full for free, and the second time on "I come to you". Who can do that? It can work, Miskovic. Can anyone in this country imagine that Boris Tadic can tell Miskovic – you can't act like that, you have to reconcile your obligations to your suppliers? No one lives in this country can imagine. Can Slobodan Milosavljevic go to his office, kick at his door and tell him – listen, you little man, behave as prescribed, I will pull you out by the ears? He can't. Why? Well, the head of security at Miskovic's isn't a man of national security. The minister's gonna grab his ears and kick him out. Then why are we passing the law? You only need one operational action – surrounded, brackets, penalties. Do you know what it means? So you -- you surround, you close, and you go free for seven years, you can go to trial, you didn't do anything wrong. But the minister can't. The minister, while there was a minister there, or a minister of trade, did not matter, allowed the conductors to import milk powder, so now you peasants complain that your milk in the ransom has such a low price. Those of the Cave High, who complain about how many tons of cheese they have, I don't know what to do. Tell the minister to speak to the patriots, Miskovic. They won't buy it. Why? They've already formed a new type of consumer who likes milk and yogurt with zero percent milk fat, that's "in". “In” is zero percent milk fat, and what is natural is “out”. "In" is because Brigitte Bardo said she should bathe in milk, and "Nivea" is very beautiful. Of course, all of this can go away because there are marketing agencies that are able to make “in”. Why are we passing one law? Are we passing the law because of five people in this country? When is the law passed for five? If five are a problem, then criminal law is applied, and no new law is passed. If a new law is passed, then that new law legalizes or amnests one who needs to comply with the Criminal Law. It's a logic even applied by those who, in a month's time, are going to take an entrance exam for law school. But we have a government made by Miskovic, we have a government that could make contact with Brussels through Miskovic, because Miskovic turns the phone to Olija Rehn and he must be photographed and, of course, a turbo successful businessman, called Bozidar Djelic, comes. By selling his business services, he earned 11,000,000 euros. Why the new law? To distract people for a few days, that people don't think about this government that sold the factories, shut down jobs, drive people out into the streets; people are on their own going to do some work, and then some people who closed the gigs and even moved people out of cardboard boxes. The message is clear, and they are only answerable by dead citizens, and the living do not respond to it. Not that it's a matter of working, and I guess the best way to keep social policy is for yourself and for your family. This is where social policy is being conducted about the Miskovic family. By the way, they don't even live here, they live in London, and who knows what they do with that money doesn't matter. If someone wanted to sell a new food product in Serbia, he couldn't bypass the Delta, the Maxi, the Tempo, the Ideu. All the Patriot companies. They pulled everyone out of this country and took them abroad. To find that on the shelf, he has to fill it for the first time, and when he does, we'll see when he'll pay, because he's got nowhere to place. Because he has no competition, he bought a Pecabeta, he bought a Gorica, he bought a Ce Market, he built his new chain, he's got slaughterhouses, he's got everything. Kosovo is Serbia, the rest is "Delta". It's all dues, and the picture is like a success. He builds and buys companies, destroys companies, sells apartments. Of course, real estate is laundered by mob money. Then why the law? To select five or six similar ones, which Miskovic will pay as the Democratic Party pays Canka when he makes problems over some law. They'll collectively act like everything's normal, everything's regular. When said normally and regularly, this means respecting the principles of market economy in our market, that the market is accessible to everyone under the same conditions and respecting something, which is freedom, free will of the contractor. And we all have to act. For what? That the big boss doesn't get mad, because if he gets angry, then 20,000 companies that are in the blockade, partly because of him, they won't even have the bread. In collective acting, this kind of schizophrenic SRS doesn't want to keep you company. We have always told you in advance what is behind, what you do, what will happen, and do not laugh. I thank you God, you're not laughing today, because you finally understood, and honestly, and honestly and without hatred, by keeping an account first of all of the interests of the citizens who live here and this country, because we don't have a reserve state here. None of us are able to be Bozidar Djelic, no one. The question is how someone allowed such a species to appear, such as Bozidar Djelic. Goran Pitic, a professor, went to the bank, properly deployed; there are also Mladja and his Jelasic, and everything is arranged. Dear citizens, just follow the flow of money, which is where the money goes, everything will be clear to you what's going on in our country, absolutely everything will be clear to you. Fighting monopolies is a pandan of something that prevents conflicts of interest. Would it, for example, be normal in this country for the health minister to conclude a work contract with Galenika, and every month has a 1,000-euro range, although there are institutes and other pharmaceutical organisations, although in hospitals, there are teams that examine medicines? But no, Galenika has to close the deal with Tomica Milosavljevic. That would say he's in conflict of interest. He's not, he's a professor, he's protected like a bear, he's allowed. Pandan to that effect on the market of goods and services is competition or, to be precise, abuse of position. Tomica Milosavljevic gives us lectures - who steals, he lies, and we should trust him. We now need to believe what the government is proposing to us by this bill. Well, I'm so old I can't be naive. I have so many years that I have an obligation to inform the public about it, because I know you, I know you well, I know what you can do. Let's move on. Let me just remind you of the beginning of this balance story. You see, when you don't have enough power, then you import electricity. When the one who was importing electricity... And for importing electricity, you don't need any machines, you need company name, registration, bank account, some bag where you could place those papers, you don't need a tie, but it doesn't matter if it exists; you once sign the right of an importer of electricity, sell here through the state service, draw money, make a bank, and then you say -- you need to release the energy and energy market, so I could build a thermoelectric power plant on the gas, I could create a system of small waterfront hydroelectric power plants, so I could get these to the wind. Who made this future monopoliest? You made it. Once there was only one "Techno Dunav", and now Hamovic and Lazarevic. Take, say, credit agreements signed by banks. On one case, I'll show you what it looks like. I will take, for example, a purchase contract; it was concluded last December between Galenika (represented by Nenad Ognjenović, director), "Velepharma AD Holding Company", Duke Stepe... Now there's Table A, Table B, the contribution, the period of payment for the drugs is 210 days. Now it is said, why does Galenika give something within 210 days? There's no specification here. I don't want to read any further, what's classified information, end of contract, etc. They signed Dragoljub Vukicevic and Nenad Ognjenović. Then came the second loan agreement in foreign exchanges, the agricultural bank Agrobanka Belgrade and Galenika AD Belgrade, but there also appeared "Velefarm", holding company, fivem euros. Then "Agrobanka" says – you'll get a loan, but 30% of the money you have to have in our account, you have to have a payment account, etc. Now I ask the question – how would these two contracts be assessed by the Commission? Did anyone here abuse a monopoly position or a dominant position on the market? Probably “Gallenika” in drug production, since we have several, with a large production volume has a dominant position, and if it enters these lists and views which medicines are as individual products, then possibly monopoly, if there are no alternatives to domestic producers. How would you judge this? The answer to that question is not given by this law. That's why this law isn't good. This law makes sense if, when you read it, you see this here, and you say, wait till we see which member we can apply and determine what it is. Here, since young Vukkovic has read this law five times, I will give him the contracts and this, let him read and tell me which member will apply to this situation. He doesn't know. It's not a problem he doesn't know, he's a young man, but neither does the Commission, neither does the minister, no one knows how to apply it. So, what's the law? The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. Who are we protecting with this law? Or you, I'm not protecting, I'm criticizing, that's my formation. It's my place to criticize you, to remove you from power as soon as possible. When you came, it all dried up. What you're getting yourself into, it's drying out. Therefore, this law is not valid, because this law allows, for example, the Minister of Health to conclude a contract on work, or work, as an expert. Imagine, he's an expert, because he's a professor. Experts, so many institutes, so many hospitals where the drugs can be tried, and no, the minister will try the drugs. He's going to ask if the cure is healthy and good. There's someone else in charge of crazy cows. So I'm telling you, what are we talking about? About what? There is no precise provision to prevent what you call a monopoly, an unauthorized monopoly. Not every monopoly is allowed. Here are some who talk about the monopoly that exists in the oil industry of Serbia. But it's a monopolies allowed. Let me remind you, the first regulation adopted by the Government of Zoran Djindjic in 2001 was a regulation on the production of oil products. Then the question arises -- wait for the people, because of the imaginary concept of the free market, someone is willing to destroy our refineries, why? Who has the right to destroy something? It's only 2001 that new municipal government in Zemun with DS, when she asked for money from the city, she said – give us an emergency money, the plan to destroy the facilities in Zemun we achieved in May with 110%. You've broken 10% more than planned. They're bragging about the more they've ruined! When you haven't done anything in your life, you're the only one enjoying the crash. If you'd built one wall, you'd never have thought to tear it down, because you don't know how to build something. But you know how to corn, to lift your leg, to see a frog's horses weave, so come on, she does. And you're going to Europe? How are you going to do that in Europe? Who wants you in Europe? Monopoly to monopoly. There are seven or eight major commanders. They're holding entire repro chains. What's the situation with the banking system? One of the few banks that had deposits from our companies, electricity, electricity, electricity, was Metals Bank. You have imposed temporary measures because in the concept of Bojan Pajtic and Nenada Chanka it is intended to be the development bank of the future independent Vojvodina. Canak does not hide how he thinks, he says – when Kosovo and Metohija can be independent, why not Vojvodina? That's his principle. And, faster and better, stole the Metals Bank. Deponents, of course, disintegrated. Let's move on. Who can control this fund run by Pitiæ in Vojvodina? When the police press him, he says, we, according to the Law on Public Enterprises; when others press him, he says, "We are a fund, we are not according to the Law on Public Enterprises." There's no tender, there's no municipalities, there's no locals, there's no locals, there's no locals, there's no locals, there's no locals, there's no locals, there's no locals, How does he act like a monopoliest? Isn't he a monopoliest? Shall we talk about the behaviour of the monopolies in the staged tenders? Shall we talk, say, about the monopolies, the Dunav insurance company, starting with Labus, through these twins? You know everything well. Some buy colleges, some buy a business space, which is never used, but two years are paid, and everyone is quiet, everyone is quiet, and a monopolies are hara. The monopoly is desirable, because at the time of the election campaign, if you want to be successful, you have to have a private state. An integral part of the election campaign is bulldozer, banger, truck, van, "cursagers", Ceca, mecca, etc., media; it holds water while the masters leave. You don't need a building permit, you don't need anything, anything can be done. For the purpose of fraud, everything is allowed. What's with the monopoly? How do you fight the monopoly? It's said that if someone wasn't a big monopolies, we'd open the market, so we'd let others be present on this market. When your others are from abroad, since they're used to their Western criteria, then ours will change the way they behave. As far as I can tell, these banks aren't exactly foreign. All I know is that the Raiffeisen is formed from two contributions - one bank and something from Sarajevo. A year later, she came back. Banks were said to have earned over 400,000 euros last year and moved out of the country. Now, we have the Banks Act, we have the National Bank of Serbia, which controls all of this, and we have provisions in this bill where jurisdiction is intertwined, where this commission can question whether they are in a monopoly position -- and they only amount to money. How do you say, transfer profits, transfer capital. The story is based on the following: large passwords, big words, compliance with EU standards, and the flood and disaster. Then you have the monopolies that took the media, and these electronics and these printed ones are everywhere. They're able to turn every word you say, absolutely every word. You say, "Good afternoon, they declare. Good evening." What is "and", everything else is "out". You have owners, you know exactly what televisions; you have that Gilas who sells seconds; you have those who are set up there, so they say what sherpa is, what is this, what is it, so on that basis, the sausages are calculated, something, so they take money. You have a reporter with a B 92 who appears in some public enterprises on behalf of a company, and she's an expert in interior decoration. She's not any expert, she's being paid off for some of her shows. Who's paying her off? A monopoliest. Why is he paying her off like that? To preserve his monopoly. Who's guarding the monopolies? DOS, in any aggregate condition. Who's the most guarded now? The one who agreed to make tycoons government. Yesterday I wanted to laugh – representatives of the authorities are criticising the feud. There is no better example of feudalisation than the RS government has since 2000. All feed to feed, all escapes and age. You touch, if you may, the young Dinkic cabinets. You've robbed the bostan, not that. This minister doesn't have... He was a Christian, you know? He snuck in here right away. A little agriculture, a little trade, a little Chamber of Commerce. The Galeb Group imports some machinery, such as those cash registers from Bulgaria. This is where you put that little seagull, the little one. It's for sale. Attending in the market, he's got his dealers. You know his dealers can't sell other machines, they just have to sell them? How are you going to bring this Veselinović down to a decent level? He boasts about how he imports it from Bulgaria. There's no factory, I don't know if you've been to the factory. What are we talking about? Tell me which member of this bill of yours can stop it. There's no member, but there aren't even those people in power who would apply it. That's even worse. Not a crow's eyes to take out, you know. You're in organic unity, a causal and consequential relationship. You can't do it without them, they can't do it without you. The only one who can do without each other is the people. Here, the people can do without you, but you jumped on your back and you won't. You turn a mental image through the media, with Galenika you have copyright contracts, you check medicines, you advertise milk with 0% milk fat. There used to be an empty barrel. What an ad – such power. An empty barrel – such power. It looks like milk, but it doesn't have milk fat. What are you gonna do? What are you promoting? When he keeps the monopoly on the seed? Were you the minister when Victoria's Group sold artificial fertilizer, all according to the Ministry's tender? In the end, it turned out to be twice as expensive as the store across the street. How do we stop it? All of this can only be stopped if power changes, but it has to change radically, from the foundation, something must come that is absolutely opposite to you. As you can see, every day is more and more coming back that we have to go back and correct what you've ruined in the last nine years. Remember today, June 10, 2009, exactly ten years after that bombing stopped. At that time, you called for another seven days to be bombed, he said – not enough, seven more days should be bombed. We then resigned, and Todorovic, and me and Gordana Pop-Lazic, resigned. I hope your law comes in handy, too. But after a few months we had to go back to the government, because we knew what they were coming to, we knew what they could do to Serbia. So Mrkonjic built a little bit more; here he is, now he's rebuilding. No, you have to. You have to move yourself somehow or leave; fix the prisons just in case, so it doesn't happen tomorrow as it did in 2001, he says – I didn't know they were this bad in prisons. Set up the prisons in time. Batic felt it in time, so he started making pools in prisons. So this law cannot suppress this kind of abuse of monopoly and abuse of dominant position on the market that some have acquired in the meantime. But you allowed them to gain that position. Why did you let them? To be in power. Now you depend on them, now you have to rescind their minuses, you have to borrow, you have to issue securities of value, you have to let them buy, you have to pay a little more interest. You have to do all that, and you know you have to, and you know there's a time when you're going to have to put a line on, to balance it. This law is not the law. It shows that you honestly don't even want to solve this area. You have no intention, you just want to make some noise and preserve that illusion, that Eurofanatism – Europe, Europe, Europe, Europe. You have even done a degradation – beautiful, beautiful, most beautiful, European beautiful. Come on, you guys, you're gonna get sick of people. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I have been informed to interrupt at two o'clock. Right?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21912	Thank you. You'll continue after your break at 15.00 hours. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you that we'll be working after 18 hours today. Of course, the work will be extended according to the agenda, which will be on the agenda at 18 hours, in accordance with Rule 85 of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you. It's a break by 3:00. Mr. Krassic, you've got 35 minutes left. [[After break – 15/05]] Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21914	In this second part, I would say something a little more concrete about the individual solutions proposed in this project by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as it thinks it is fighting corruption and protecting competition. You see, a long time ago there was a concept that the enforcement of certain obligations under the law belonged to so-called. to the executive authority. Starting with that principle, it was a kind of standard for the anti-monopoly commission to be drawn up by the government. That solution is still present today in the existing law. It was later matured to believe that the government, as an executive body, which in some ways promotes or fails to fight corruption, is not practically able to form an effective body to combat the abuse of competition. The position was then formed to create something that would be on the middle of the roads between legislative, executive and judicial authorities; not only to be a regulatory body, but to a state body with precise powers. In this part of the different opinions, the government, as a legislator of this law, took the view that the Commission should be formed. I must say, she has not precisely defined the place, the legal position and the role of this commission. This is not precisely defined from the view of the Constitution and the existing state government. Here's why. If someone performs with the attributes of force – when I say force, I don't mean physical force, I mean the authority to consider the actions and behaviour of some traffic participants – then its specific function must be very precisely defined. In the precise definition of this role, the Constitution, the Law on State Administration, the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Law on Administrative Disputes and, why not say, something that has already been brought to life with us, which is a kind of concept of agencies as independent regulatory bodies. According to the classical definition, it is more suited to the so-called so-called. administrative organisations. In that definition of a state body, when we refer to the Constitution, we usually refer to what the Constitution has precisely defined, so we have the Protector of Citizens, we have the Trustee of Public Information, we have the entire system within the judiciary, the prosecution, the National Bank of Serbia, which is particularly defined by the Constitution. Such an organ is not defined by the Constitution. Can he come from something called the state administration? It's hardly possible. Then what are we using as an auxiliary? We use, first of all, the definition of functions that that organ needs to perform. If we put all this into one context, then we'll see that the wrong choice of defining the legal position of this commission, the anti-corruption commission, is made again. Why is it wrong, and it's the way to choose? Formal-legislatively, the proposer for the election of the president and members of this committee is the working body of the National Assembly, the Trade Committee. The Trade Committee, like all other committees of the National Assembly, is a working body, an auxiliary body that has some permissive power from the bill to the plenary session. This working body does not even have legal subjectivity, does not have legal personality status, and cannot exercise public authority. Why can't he exercise public authority? Because it belongs to the legislative authority, it is not within the executive authority. In view of the face-to-face of this problem and the need for the Commission to overexpress the expertise, there was one half solution – that the president of the National Assembly, as a kind of in-coherent body of the legislative body, would call a competition, and then some would do state work. From these few findings, and it says in the bill, you can see that, in fact, you have no concept of what it's supposed to look like. I must tell you that the concept is not clear to you in terms of professional service, where authorized officials are to be held to carry out operations in the administrative procedure. I must remind you that since 2003, I have been persistently criticising this concept that was first promoted by the NBS Act, where one Assembly Committee was also given the authority to propose to elect members of the Council and governor of the National Bank. Let me remind you, we are constantly criticizing you for that legal-technical structure, where the state body is titled "Minister". Here, at this session is a large number of draft laws where you expelled the minister and returned the ministry again, because the ministry is a state body. So who's supposed to sit on that council? Certainly professional faces. What's that advice? It is a collegiate body that works and makes decisions based on the Rules of Procedure on its work. If it's a collegiate organ, then there are some principles. There's no such principle in the bill. Here the President of the Commission is drawn up in several places where he draws conclusions on the initiation of the procedure, suspending the procedure, determining the art, etc., and there is no principle. In any case, in order to be able to act and to make decisions and to determine and to have some authority, it is necessary for this commission to be a state body, to have all the attributes of a state body. Unfortunately, it doesn't exist in the bill. We tried to give you some amendments just to point that out. I'm telling you in advance, our amendments can't solve this problem, but we used the amendments as a form to point out to you the problem and that when the debate in particular comes to these provisions, we are very concrete in the criticism of one such solution that contains the bill. Since I'm talking about some things most people don't understand, I'd like to remind you that there are students outside the building who are protesting for tuition. Do they have anything to do with this law? They do. Now I'm going to explain to you why they have connections. The state university and the state school is a kind of state monopoly. You broke that monopoly by adopting some Bologna document that, in any case, represents the private interests of some who would like to earn much more than possible in so-called. the private education system. As a European standard, you have promoted this "bologne" and the obligation that parents, you, those who monitor transmission and I pay tuition to these children who protest. These kids shouldn't be protesting against me, they should be protesting against you. You've introduced it as a European standard. You've promoted the principle that children in Prince Michael's cafes enjoy themselves, while their parents strike hunger outside the presidency building or outside the factory gates where they worked for 30 years. You've promoted that principle. You tried to break that monopoly instead of controlling that monopoly, instead of preventing it from escalating and being a major distraction. You encouraged competition with private universities, private universities and you promoted, as a European principle of pay. Remember your Turajlic, the great lady, remember your ministers. That's where the monopoly theme is. By inciting competition, monopolies should be able to achieve some benefit. You managed to miss that, too, so you did some damage. Here, this youth who voted for you does not accept that kind of European standards. Let go of your scholarships, your funds, where you send five or six people, and take pictures of them. Here's the youth, protesting. School fees in the first place, parents can't pay. You cowardled before the time, and we warned you about how bad that “bolon” is. You smiled, and you said, “These are the kibitzers, ” as the other day said, “the kibitzers who bring us back. ” Wherever you turn, you have an example of how you fight the monopoly and how you encourage competition. You encourage her to appear as an effect of damage. In the criticism of this law I have to ask you a question – who do you think could be punished under the provisions of this law and taken 10% of his income? Don't you think it might be better if you took the gun and fired it right away, even if it was Miskovic, even if he was just a craftsman? Ten percent of the total income, do you know what that is? Did you make money once, did you work some time, make money? Do you know if you have a sense of value? It's usually said that whoever in a suspicious way acquires the means has no sense of value, of pain, of making money, so you can write him any amount, of how it came, so gone, he looks at it that way. Ten percent of total income to punish someone! We're telling you, you better shoot him right now, that's an easier measure. Why did he come in a position to be like that? Who gave him permission? So I'm saying, you won't be able to implement this law, especially those provisions on protected witnesses. I do not know which bright mind could prescribe something that exists in the UN tribunal's procedure and evidence, which is privileged communication between the lawyers and the party involved in the proceedings before the Commission. Are you normal, people, what did you write? That they're protected communications between lawyers and clients. Where do you put it in this law? What did you expect a lawyer to sell a client? Let me explain how it works. There is also privileged communication in The Hague tribunal regarding both visits and telephones. These thugs are recording it all, and privileged communication means they can't abuse it in the process, use it as a means of proof. And you poor bastards get your feet up to get on the horse, so get it in; now that means that this commission has listening machines and is listening to a conversation between the lawyer and the party. Because that's the only way to justify putting in this provision. It's amazing what you're capable of getting into the law. Where do you get those ideas from, it's just amazing! We know who's listening in this country -- something small military, little media, something Vukadinović, that cousin; there's a lot of them listening, we know that, but now you're giving us material to realize that the Commission, or professional service, is going to have a listening apparatus, as soon as you need to protect communication between lawyers and parties in the process. So whoever's a party in the process in front of this future commission needs to know that his phones are being tapped, because otherwise there's no reason why you put it into the law. It's not even in the General Administrative Procedure Act, is any of you aware? This is where you put it. You say that's a European standard. How can that be a European standard, explain it to me. Please state in which directive, which recommendations, in which EU regulation or some EU member states, something like this is written. Or did you throw this in just to make it look like this regulation was supposed to be serious? He's not serious, he's inadmissible. In order for him to apply, volunteerism is needed. In order for him to have some effect, you will have to destroy competition under this law. Who? The one who's already a monopolies. Can you imagine that within the context of the connected faces, one other found, Dragan Gilas has 16 companies? And everything's about the media. If you go to pay for a second of advertising space on some television, they tell you – the price of X, but since it's expensive, go to Dragan Gilas or one of his companies, there will be x through two. Then the question arises where did he get that market influence on television? Someone's gonna think he pre-invested, gave some advances, something helped that media, and then got a big discount. He didn't give anything, he shared the money with the director of the media. You know it well, but you say, you're in use, so it can be seen through your fingers. Why do you benefit? It is known that the lion beer, the deer beer, this beer, this juice, that juice, they finance that medium, and for what it has provided, the Democratic Party will get space; if not to use under its firm, then to attack others, with paid journalists. It is known which show is paid, which ads are spinning on which show; it is known what is the interest of those who want to advertise on that show because of that term, and ratings, etc. Public opinion is being questioned, so two televisions are racing that have higher ratings. You made science out of it, so you even did something that was interesting to the public, so the public wouldn't see the factory shut down. It's amazing what you're doing. You're asking us to vote for a bill like this, with these indiscretions, problems and shortcomings, and you're still going through that -- you're asking us to vote, and you're aware that we know exactly who you are and what you're doing. Let us in the first part, media, and in this second part, deny ourselves. That's impossible. Who's allowed to vote for the law? You can't find any more students to vote for you. As far as actors and artists are concerned, that's what I explained to you last week. Mira Banjac will no longer vote for you. Is there someone you didn't cheat on? You can't fool the tycoons, because they've got you in their hands. They're in charge. That's the side effect, that's it - politic. Remember, in two days you'll be fighting with NGOs. Why? You don't have a program, you don't have any political vision. No, the public's fine, let's go. As for the Duke, you made a deal with everything and everyone, you promised everything and everything, and when it was due to be fulfilled, you saw—a stain on you remains. You're wearing a stain of Kosovo and Metohija, due to last year's and the fact that you blocked all resolutions because of the fact that you called Eulex. It's your responsibility. That reminds you of today. On this day ten years ago, someone requested that Serbia be bombed for another seven days, as there was not enough broken resistance in Serbia. Then on tomorrow one in the Assembly said - peace has come, the United Nations is going to give us back Kosovo and Metohija, they will protect Serbs. What's after ten years? The United Nations escaped. Who takes care of the Serbs there? Who takes care of the human rights of all citizens in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? No, they cheated on you. That's when you said -- our friends come, they're our partners, there's no superior, there's no subordinate; you're for democratic values, for democratic Europe, they respect it, they appreciate it, they'll give you support to implement it. What did you do? Everything's coming up. It all fits the monopolies story, the fight against monopolies abuse. It's only temporarily called on the market when it comes to goods, services and capital, an antelope, but it goes beyond state functions, and on social activities, and on public enterprises, both on human rights and on democracy, because you don't give an alternative, you don't allow. There are also Eurofanatics and Eurosceptics in the European Parliament, co-exist and interact with their opinions, and you do not allow Eurosceptics to live in Serbia; all must be Democrats, because you are both etalon for bribery and for corruption and for what is favourable. I'd like so much, Mr. Todorovic will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21915	You have another ten and a half, eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I suppose I'll have a chance to show you some examples, you probably heard them, again, for the sake of the public, to try to resolve some things when it comes to monopoly or the possibility that individuals in this country, thanks to their position, have the opportunity to make enormous profits, not counting on how much it harms Serbia. I think you're completely up to it. Among other things, you were Minister of Agriculture, so you were Minister of Trade and Tourism, so the President of the Chamber of Commerce, and now again the Minister of Trade, as it would say, Minister of General Practice, which is kind of a feature of the Democratic Party, you can do anything. However, as far as quality is concerned, there is no difference – wherever you come, destroy, and that is the problem facing the state of Serbia. What's particularly interesting is that we brought it out here in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, it's a media space, or people who control that media space. First of all, I'm going to ask a simple question, which I'd like you to give me an answer: what percent is a monopoly? What is the percentage that, by you and by this future commission, should be red light, so that it starts to work? Out of the total marketing space, 85% control Dragan Gilas (with 60%) and Srdjan Shaper (25%). They're both from the Democratic Party. This media space, due to citizens and MPs, is not unlimited. It is exactly limited, in euros it is, last year, 435,000 euros, I think. So 85% of this amount, it's about 330,000,000 - 340,000,000 euros, controlled by Srdjan Shaper and Dragan Gilas. Now look, for example, at Dragan Gilas' developmental pathway. You remember who he is, what he is, when he came from the Czech Republic. There, however, he did not celebrate, because he was not in the media space, he sold jewelry there, but he came here to Serbia and became the director of the Office, and then the NIP minister, to be one of the largest tycoons in Serbia today. According to some calculations, Mr Milosavljevic, Dragan Gilas earns 230,000 euros a day. Be careful now who is a genius, an expert, the kind of Serbia only needs to wish for. He's not the only one, you've got a lot of those in your ranks. Do you know what the problem is? The fact that they have turned their genius and their ability towards one thing is to put as much money in their pocket as possible. If they had done this for the state, the citizens of Serbia would not know where the end would be, they would have achieved everything you promised in October 2000 and 2001 at the beginning, everyone would have their houses, apartments, cars, gone abroad for a vacation, etc. Unfortunately, it has proved to be a hoax on Serbian citizens, and those ads were only put forward to the citizens to know what the Democratic Party and its satellites will fight for. That's the problem we're facing right now. You deceive Serbian citizens. Let me give you an example: in the election campaign, Mr Milosavljevic, in Zemun, from the settlement Blue Horizon to the settlement Zemun, the road that is necessary is started. It should have been done a long time ago, but it seems that you choose when it's best not for the citizens of Serbia, but for you, and it's a pre-election campaign. You've dressed up the machines and you're on your way. Although you didn't have permission to build that road, we would have gone over it, it's useful for the citizens, the license can come later. If this "Usce" palace could be sold and taken to the state five-and-a-half hectares of the most valuable country in Belgrade, why this time, which is necessary for the citizens of Zemun, could not be built? However, as soon as the elections were completed, the election results were declared, you picked yourself up, drove out the machines, and there was nothing from that road. Now you can go to the Blue Horizon and look, about 30% of the work is done, and no one will move on. This is what we face all the time in the last nine years, manipulation and fraud of Serbian citizens. You are not interested in anything else, you simply said that there is no alternative, that your path is the only way to Europe, in which you will likely arrive with suitcases you have robbed from Serbian citizens, but the question is what will become of Serbia. That's what you show every day, and one of the good examples is Kosovo and Metohija. You assured us that the best solution was to install the Eulex mission and thus caused irreparable damage to Serbia, above all by removing the Kosovo and Metohija issue from the United Nations, where it could only be resolved under Resolution 1244. Allowing the installation of the Eulex mission, you have essentially made it possible to implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan and to form institutions and future independent states of Kosovo and Metohija, and this is seen daily. Look, your minister today is not letting him cross that administrative border between Kosovo and Metohija. You're not responding. Why don't you ask the Security Council how it's possible for UNMIK to establish customs at administrative crossings? How is that possible? Well, it's possible because you keep quiet, because you don't do what you can do. That's why the Russians told you, among other things, that they can't be more Serbs than you Serbs; if you have EULEX, it's good for the Russians. You will do nothing to prevent the European Union and America from achieving their goal and slowly crawling... Not formally, you are still not formally asked to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, but your essential moves will lead to Kosovo being practically a new state by all elements. When all this happens, then you will start to convince Serbian citizens that it will not matter because it is important that we enter the European Union, both us and Kosovo, and there is no limit there anyway, it does not matter whether we formally enter with Kosovo and Metohija or not. That's where you normally don't stop, you move on. This is Vojvodina, these are the new regions you are establishing, and this is the slowly ending that we have been seeing, which we have been warning from the beginning, which is -- Serbia within the borders of Belgrade Pashaluka. It's definitely destroying Serbia in every way. All of this will benefit a small number of people; they will not be in this country when it happens, nor bind their lives to Serbia, they have come to a large extent, and some who have been here will go along with them, because they will finish the work that America and the EU are asking them to do. You'll try, normally, all to drag us into the NATO Pact, just like you... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... bring Eulex to Kosovo and Metohija, not by decision of the Serbian citizens, but by bringing it under the grain, in the dark, where no one sees you, to try to end and seal the fate of Serbia and Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21917	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21918	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the protection of competition has an immeasurable and significant impact on the country's overall economic activity. The protection of competition is very important because it raises the quality of services and goods that Serbian citizens can buy, it creates an opportunity for significant investment activities, and only then strengthens our economy, so that it can run a competition with the EU economy. Today, in the Serbian Parliament, this law has served many of my predecessors to say that Serbia is passing laws by waking up in Brussels, Washington, or I don't know which world centre, and is coming up with what law today will deliver to the Serbian parliament that we adopt it here. That's not how the law is passed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The law in this country is passed by the existence of a desire, clear intent, will and desire of the citizens of this country, who are shown in the elections, to live as a normal world, but also by those political parties who lead this country, that these laws are passed not to stand on the shelves, but to be enforceable laws, which live in practice and everyday application. The law on the protection of competition or anti-monopolis law, as known in public, is a subject that led to the creation of the European Union. The European Union has created a desire to protect the market, to prevent unfair competition and monopoly. In 2005, the first law of this kind was passed. Some of my predecessors have criticised the Democratic Party that we have participated in the adoption of this law. You know, I belong to the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party is serious about politics, and this is seen not only in the elections in Koserić or Vranjska Banja, but also in the way we prepare for the session. I have stenograms from that session in 2005 and I can read to you what the current Minister of State Administration Mr Milan Markovic, who was head of the DS Parliament Club, Dusan Petrovic and my other colleagues, said about the law. We made a lot of criticism about this law, but we felt it was better to pass a law that wasn't passed and that didn't exist, but had no law. Today, however, we do not change that law, and today we are making a whole new law. The new law that we are passing also included the words of criticism heard in 2005 by the Democratic Party in relation to this law. When we talk about this law at all, it is true that it is being passed later because of certain problems we had in parliamentary work and that it is late with this law, but the law is passed after a comprehensive public debate. The law would be a law that really went through the public debate of all people who wanted to participate, because he didn't cheat in a drawer, was available to anyone who wanted to make remarks, suggestions. Mr Milosavljevic has repeatedly come to the Trade Committee with this law, informed all interested parliamentary groups that the law is being prepared and asked for help in passing the law. The law protects public interest and competition. The Commission gets greater powers, but when we talk about a new commission, an anti-monopoly commission or a competition protection commission, as a member of the Trade and Tourism Committee, I ask for a new practice to be introduced here, and that this new commission will start disbursed from all past mortgages, that the Committee on Trade and Tourism discuss the impact of the previous commission and its work, so that the next day this commission, which we will later choose from the beginning, will have the opportunity to justify justice and provide reasons only for its work, and not for the work of previous people, the previous commissions. When we talk about whether this law is Eurofanatics or Eurosceptics, in the world, dear colleagues, there is an association of citizens that propagates the view that the Earth is a flat plate. That association has 100,000 members. These people who believe that the Earth is a flat plate live and die just as happy as we do, but their ignorance is no reason not to accept modern liquids and their ignorance does not stop the civilization's progress of humanity. They live in their ignorance in their group and enjoy the belief that the earth is a flat plate. This association has supporters in Europe, America, all over the world. However, this law and the adoption of this law is not a proof of Eurofanatism, it is a proof of desire and intending, above all, to settle the domestic market. There have been a lot of criticism here at the expense of this law that are well-intentioned, meaningful, which I hope will live through some amendments. I'm just going to read article 19 of this law, because here was an undefined thesis, an undefined term -- what is it that defines a particular market, is it a regional market, is it a local market, is it a whole Serbian market? Whoever reads Article 19 of the Law will see that there can be debates both on the whole market and on the part of the market. It is a very well-prepared member, who clearly defines how the monopoly is determined, whether in a particular city, whether in a particular region, whether the monopoly is determined at Serbia's level. I have a few more things to tell you. There were words on how to choose board members and there were objections to the selection of members of the Competition Protection Commission. You know, we can call a Cossack Ataman Assembly in front of the Federal Assembly here, invite citizens and we can choose a Cossack Ataman, but that's not how it's done anywhere in a civilized world, so it won't work in Serbia either. This committee will be elected by the Trade Committee and the Serbian Assembly. The opposition Trade Committee has a clear majority. You have, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity to impose your wishes and attitudes on the Trade Committee, to propose them and give them to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is a good option for the opposition to participate actively in the work, when it comes to this law and at all to the selection of members of the Commission. There were words about getting our feet up and we were going to get wet. You know, I'm proud that the people of the DS and the ruling majority are being horseshoed, but not by horseshoes, but by knowledge, education, education. This is also seen in this law, because it has been brought into one professional, cultural, educated way, with all possible experiences from the modern world. We also have remarks here that this law will enable monopoly media moguls, and even some people are seeing Dragan Gilas in prison. You know, Serbian citizens, there are a lot of people on the political scene of Serbia who are very easy to accept the heavy burden of condemning others, and they easily and recklessly reject the easy burden of condemning themselves. He's not in prison, Dragan Gilas, he's in prison, the mayor of Arangelovac, but it's not the subject of this agenda and it's not the subject of this assembly debate. If we are talking about the media monopoly, don't bring up lies and misinformation, because the media market in Serbia and Croatia together does not amount to 300,000 euros, let alone in Serbia. There are some of us who have been dealing with both the media and the advertising, so we know how much the advertising market is in both the electronic media and the print media, and even on billboards, so this advertising in Serbia and Croatia together last year was not 300,000 euros, and I would like, Mr. Minister, to reach that sum because this sum is proof of the development of a single market. The more advertising is spent, the more economics, the more economics want a competition, market competition. I have to say that trade is really going through a hard time right now, because the global economic crisis is also felt in the area of trade, but some of the topics that have been imposed here are more in the domain of the Trade Strategy of the Republic of Serbia. The strategy, led by Mr Milosavljevic, made and gave insight to both citizens and political parties and MPs. Right now, traders have a problem with collecting their claims from large trade chains; in Serbia, there is no possibility that when a trader sells something to someone in that chain of intermediation that goods and collects if they do not want to pay them, but it is the subject of another law rather than anti-monopol law. It is the monopolies theme of how monopolies behave, above all, towards the processing of the agricultural industry, because it is the industry that is the most preserved in Serbia right now, and these people have a problem collecting their claims and paying off agricultural producers. At the end of my presentation, I would like to invite all MPs to join the initiative of the organisation "My Serbia", which promotes the campaign "Let's Choose Home". Domestic products are not only products produced by Serbian companies, they are all products produced in Serbia, regardless of whether companies are domestic or foreign, but by choosing and buying domestic products we keep jobs in Serbia. That's how we prove our patriotism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21919	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. There are four minutes left for your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21920	Dear viewers, there are no Eurofanatics or Eurosceptics in Serbia. If there were Eurofanatics, Serbia would take much bigger steps under their government than it did, and Eurosceptics exist in countries that are members of the European Union. Perhaps many of us, perhaps I, will be skeptical once Serbia is a full member. Otherwise, the liberals are Euroidealists, unlike these two groups. Whether the opposition committee has a majority will be seen when it comes to the agenda. There are opposition parties here who are called so, but we will see if they agree on the Commission's proposal. Mr. Minister, as we said, we said in these three minutes, just to make it clear -- it's nice that you said you signed this for an exemption to apply the law to monopolies, but there's no monopoly there, for example, in the EU. That's why we wanted that exemption to be limited. Many laws introduce a member, i.e. a deadline, says – when we are in the EU, let's say, the Chamber of Commerce Act. We think it's supposed to be an ominous form here. As for the government, you say there's no government. I will quote to you just a few members in a hurry: “The relevant market – the government is closer to laying down criteria for determining the relevant market. “ We think that a really important part of the market should be formulated in this law. It then says: "A single exemption from the prohibition – the Government is closer to prescribing the content of the requirements set out in this Article" and then: "A exemption from the prohibition by categories of agreement", I am talking about agreements, "the government sets categories of agreements and makes specific conditions laid down in Article 1." Well, it says: "The administrative measures laid down by the Commission – the Government is closer to laying down criteria for determining the amount to be paid on the basis of the level of protection of competition and the procedural penalty" etc. There are a lot of members in which the government has a large role to play, and we think a lot of things here should be defined or given to the Commission to define. I do not have any dispute regarding a member who says the government is deciding what the legitimacy and badge of the members of the Commission looks like. That's not controversial. When we talk about punishment and administrative procedure, we think that we should, we also have submitted the amendment, accept the de minimis rule, which was built through the practice of the European Court of Justice, and that is the simplest thing – the one who is more responsible is, so the punishment is greater to him than the one who is small. I'm talking about companies. We think that, in addition to these criteria here, a scale criterion should be introduced. Those are some, I'd say they're not essential, objections to the law. I hope that through the work on amendments, we will fix this law. We'll be glad to. As I said, this law is important for countries in transition, such as Serbia, where monopolies have already been established and where there is a lot of dirty and bloody money, because we have been through wars. I hope that when it comes to running for members of the Council, i.e. the Commission, after a public competition, we will really show that there is a majority in the Committee on Trade for the Opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21921	Thank you. Mr Milan Lapcevic, your parliamentary group has 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21922	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the Protection of Competition is one of the, as you and my fellow MPs from the DSS, the most significant law, which should be regulated by the area of trade, that is, regulation of the market. Market regulation, i.e. competition law, monopoly prevention, consumer protection and, in general, the area of trade is one of the most important areas, which has also been apostropheeded as a priority in the SAA and is particularly concerned with the stabilisation and accession process, i.e. in the EU membership negotiation process. As a result, European Commission officials have repeatedly had objections and recommendations addressed to the ruling set-up, i.e. the current government and the ministries responsible for this area, to protect competition, i.e. by regulating the market more tackled and to pass appropriate laws to protect Serbian citizens in this area and to avoid being placed in a position where such legislation is a stumbling block for us in the accession process. What is the situation on the market now, what should be said when talking about the monopoly on the Republic of Serbia market, and in which areas are the most represented? Mostly, therefore, these terms have been used and this has been discussed for the last ten, fifteen years, since the Republic of Serbia started its intensive privatisation process, i.e. to spread the markets to those structures and those companies that are mostly private-owned. When the state controls certain sectors and companies located on the market, then there are mechanisms how, possibly, the abuse of monopolies, i.e. the creation of excess values, flows into state funds, but when we are in a situation where private capital is dominant on the market, then there can be abuse of these positions and a lot of money being poured into private pockets. An eclectic example of this is trade chains, which have been gaining importance and expansion for the last few years. Large trade chains have been built in many Serbian cities, employs a number of people, but, on the other hand, these large trade chains have choked many small shops, small shops. So we got a negative effect from that side – many people had to close their stores because the principle of large numbers and large markets leads to them not being able to survive on the market and having to shut down their actions. On the other hand, the negative effect of this kind of development is that these trade chains, since they were mainly formed by the most powerful people in Serbia, work on the principle that they finance themselves, i.e. consumers literally finance the construction and maintenance of these facilities, by making the first fills go absolutely free from the manufacturer, and later those producers who want to enter large markets have to pay a certain price for a single product, from 100 to 500 euros, depending on the type of product. So we got big monopolies in the area of trade. They are the most significant, most talked about when talking about tycoons and preventing monopoly in Serbia, because the biggest profit is in the area of trade. When a monopoly is taken in the area of trade, it is possible to create extraprofit. However, there is talk of monopoly and lack of adequate competition in both the production and processing of milk, the food industry, in meat production and processing, oil, sugar, and even in the media sphere, among cable operators and even in the asphalting of roads. It is a public secret that the largest share in paved roads in Serbia and the market has a company led by one of the most significant Serbian tycoons and that by buying small enterprises across Serbia, one giant has been created, which takes over the most important jobs in this area and, of course, also creates extraprofits. By joining that extraprofit with other branches and other companies that it has become the most powerful man, it is no wonder it is mentioned as the man who has the most influenced the creation of the current government and who has the greatest influence on its work and functioning. So the remarks made in the previous part, that this law that was made even before the previous year and was fully defined only after a year came to the Serbian Parliament, is becoming more clear only now. Because it's about people who have an influence on the government and the Ministry that these laws, which will prevent their monopoly, are being delivered to the assembly procedure by a year of delay. In doing so, this law has been delivered with minor changes, but these changes are essential in nature and concern the unclear definition of the dominant position on the market and capital concentration, which can be interpreted in two ways. Of course, this law is necessary for market regulation and is useful for citizens of Serbia, but as proposed, it is not clear enough. Depending on whether our amendments will be accepted, the decision on whether we will support it will be made in the very day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21923	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Antic. Your task force has three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21924	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the theme of monopoly, the topic of competition is extremely important for the SNS. We are fully aware that the problem of the monopoly today is the cancer of the Serb society, that unfortunately we have come out of communism and socialism, when monopolies have not been recognized, when we have seen them as natural in some areas. Unfortunately, in the past few months, this government, like all previous governments, has not paid enough attention to the monopolies problem. We had one privatisation process. As part of the process, many monopolies in Serbia are allowed to be created. The market is parcelled. This law and this commission will have a lot of problems and difficulties in bringing things into some normal order. Encouraging competition for SNS is also encouraging law and order in the country. Based on how we're experiencing our country, whether we're assessing that we have order and law, we can also talk about whether or not we have a monopoly in the state, how much competition has come into play. I think that what is lacking in Serbian society is a culture of competition, but also one much more responsible government, which will deal with competition issues and problems by promoting them among citizens, to give citizens the knowledge that competition means more efficient use of the resources we have anyway, that competition means a socially optimal level for the market; that competition, in any case, means better quality of goods and services and lower prices, as my colleagues have said, but also means clearing up with extraprofitters, means a much higher price of work, i.e. abolishing parasiteism, which today and how it has in our society. The state policy that was led in the previous period did not go to order to create competition in Serbian society, Serbia's economy, and that is why today we have a large number of regulations that are unadjusted, which are, in some ways, overcome. We have complicated procedures, we still have a lack of legal certainty and insufficient interest in both domestic and foreign investors on our market. I'd like to say in the end, given the time we've been busy, that we're going to have an opportunity to talk about concrete solutions as well... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and that, unfortunately, this law has given great discretion to the government, that the government and how it affects the implementation of this law, which is completely contrary to the spirit of this law and the fight against the monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21925	I thank you, Mr Anticu. Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has his word, six and a half minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21926	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you said in your opening statement that this is one of the most important laws, and I fully agree with that, and that this is a very important area, which this law should regulate. I also agree with that, but I'm sure you'll agree with me that this area isn't detailed and that there's still a series of laws missing to really cover all possible situations. To remove the dilemma at the outset, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia are indeed interested in the debate, in principle and in particular, will do everything possible for parliament to adopt a good law on the ban on competition. The big problem is that Serbia does not have a law on trade. Some colleagues called it a roof law, some said it was a fundamental law. Let's call it whatever you want, but every house must have a foundation and a roof. When people build a house, they make it of their own money, to live in it, they work for themselves, and I'm afraid in Serbia we're in a situation where individuals buy houses, buy people in those houses, and some of them think they can buy half of Serbia. The laws in the area of trade were already in certain procedures in the government, they were prepared, and today we heard that because of the adoption of the new strategy they did not come in the form in which they went to the government. I remind you, Minister, you were a few days ago (two weeks ago, if I'm wrong) authorized by the e-commerce law. The text of that law also came in an unaltered form. We tried to change it a little bit. One of the laws that was missing at the time is the law on the electronic document, and I am glad that this law has arrived and that the very remarks we have pointed to have been incorporated. So, if there is a good will, if there is good co-operation and if you really well accept our criticism, in the interest of passing laws that will be applied, and not that will help to make someone boast about the number of laws this Parliament has passed, then we can come to a common result. What I really care about and in some ways concerns me is what about the consumer protection law. It is an area that directly affects a large number, or practically all people in this country, because we are all consumers in some way. The law should introduce a completely new relationship between an unprotected group and all those who use all those holes in the law or a lack of certain legal regulations to be rich, to obtain extraprofits on the market. Certainly, most importantly, the most comprehensive law is the law on trade, which was prepared and magically withdrawn. I'm not saying it's the best, but it needs to be found in Serbia's parliament as soon as possible. Give it to the messengers, let us act on it. The amendment technique therefore exists, to improve a certain legislative proposal, and to adopt a good legislative proposal. I really don't understand why you did all this and who you did it for. I understand your desire to regulate this matter in a comprehensive way, but the fact is that the laws are missing and there is not enough explanation in October -- it will be in November, in November -- will be in December. Let's work a little more efficiently on this field, to really regulate relations on our market. One of my colleagues today said that maybe this law is waiting for us to arrive in the congregation because of the so-called. Groups of experts preparing the law, which will charge certain fees. I'd like to hear who's in charge of a team preparing a new trade law. There are also those homeowners from the beginning of the story, the tycoon, who are allowed to do whatever they want, buy what they want, build wherever they want, arrange in a completely abnormal way the lives of all of us in Serbia, threaten, blackmail, and do things. I believe that they have been given over the past year, that they have been given another year to use their monopoly position uninterruptedly and thus return the money they have invested in the formation of this government. This law came in March of the month and do not honor us from the opposition that we are guilty of not being in the process. The ruling coalition is known to determine the agenda for the Serbian Parliament. Competition is competition on the market. It is one game where different players on the market put pressure on each other, but in order to increase and improve economic efficiency. With us, the government suffers pressures from various Serbian masters, some from Serbia itself, some from the sides, but that is a fact that we are all aware of. The stronger the pressure on the normally regulated market, the stronger the economic efficiency. Competitors on the market then seek to meet customer requirements, to launch certain initiatives, to knock down prices, to cut costs. Unfortunately, something else is happening to us – which is a stronger pressure on the government, the government is more introducing certain unclear rules, namely its innovations, to deliberately deviate from the full and detailed definition of abuse of dominant position. The higher pressure shows that these homeowners have new demands, and I can understand that in some ways; in the end, they will not knock down the costs, but, if you are not good, if you fail to fulfill the promises you made to them, they will bring down the government. On the one hand, when they've already made it, they may have a right to take it down tomorrow. I wish them a lot of success in doing this as soon as possible. Mr. Secretary, the DSS Group has submitted a series of amendments. I hope that on the committees in charge, and in communication with you, we will be able to convince you that they are good and that they are specifically correcting this law; without adopting these amendments, do not count on the support of this law by the DSS Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21927	The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21928	Dear President, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, speaking of the competition law, I will not speak in a language that is incomprehensible to most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but I will try on several examples, referring to some members of the law that you are proposing today... and I don't see you defending him, and I hope you'll take a pen in your hand, and that will be a sign for us people's MPs and citizens of Serbia that you will pay attention to what I want to say now, and I believe that tens of thousands of Serbian citizens are interested. Article 1 of the law you propose here states: “This law regulates the protection of competition on the market of the Republic of Serbia, in order to make economic progress and the well-being of society, especially the use of the consumer... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I am interested in these four words "a particularly useful consumer"; I associate this with Article 15(1), under the heading Dominant Position on the Market, and it goes to Article 15, where the bill states: "The dominant position in the relevant market has a market participant that has no competition or competition is insignificant, i.e. which has a significantly better position than competitors, taking into account the size of market share, economic and financial power, access to supply and distribution markets, as well as legal or factual barriers to other market participants' access. “ I’m going to try one case, as far as consumers are concerned, so I’m going to ask you a question. I believe that many citizens who watch this transmission expect an answer to that question. Here's the thing. As a National MP, I've asked a lot of questions here, some of them I've received answers, some I haven't, or most of them I am, and I'm only one question not – is it within the legal time limit. Those answers were delivered to me or not, it doesn't matter, and it really doesn't matter to me, I just want to tell you, Mr. Minister, that I didn't get an answer to the question addressed to the Minister of Energy, you're the Minister of Trade, and it concerns the price of gas for the household. Here's what I want to hear from you. So, if all citizens remember, all the parliamentary groups here, four or five days ago, it was a hit topic in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, precisely because the price of gas was increased all of a sudden, if we all remember it well, 59 and something, or 60%. Should I remind the citizens of Serbia and all MPs and all MPs, who have almost all stood up against such an enormous increase in the price of gas for households, especially the LDP and LSV parliamentary groups, and we from the NS have participated? I think I have a moral obligation, as a representative of the citizens, to re-initiate the subject and from the competent ministers, I think it's a trade where citizens are sold gas, distributed, and it's "Srbigas", which apparently has a monopoly, and it's dominant, especially if it's a public enterprise, or a state-owned company... Let me remind you, and you correct me if these gas price parameters aren't correct or I don't have good information, then the Energy Minister told us at several consecutive meetings of the Energy Committee, when the whole public rose, and the media and the government, to explain themselves, because it was at the beginning of the heating season... Now we're a little quiet about it, maybe because it's not the warm season. I must remind you that many economic operators use gas as a fuel, or a means, as energy, for all 12 months. That's when the price of a thousand cc's of gas was $450. I have information that it's $290 now. My question is – why is the price of gas not coming down to the citizens of Serbia? Wouldn't you, in a political sense, as part of the government, as a minister, as a government get, if that's what we call it, political points? To call it political points, I don't mind, get them, if one layer of citizens will benefit from it. Then we're told that the price of gas is formed by a specific process, that it's done on the basis of a time of nine months, based on the price of other oil derivatives, so it's averaged and some formula came up. We are witnessing that yesterday or the day before yesterday, or today, the prices of diesel, gasoline increased, with an explanation that the price of these energy plants on the world market has jumped. Then, normally, there's been a formula for four or five years, I've followed that formula, it's respected when fuel prices rise, when those energys on the world market that we over 90% are importing, and that's how they increase... What happens here when the energy price goes down from 450 to $290? I also consider that when the price of gas has increased 60% for citizens, then the dollar has been 61, 62, 63 dinars, and now it's 70, but given the growth of the dollar, the rise in the dinars, this is again, least said, the robbery of citizens, and this stems from that dominant position that you define here in Article 15. I don't think you or the citizens of Serbia who introduced the gas because someone advertised it, because someone said it was the cheapest energy, that it was the greenest... That's what the state did, that's what different governments did, and I have to tell you that all these citizens, tens of thousands of citizens and households... I don't have the exact data on how many households in Serbia have introduced gas as a heating energy during the winter season, but I know that in the city from which I come, in Cačka, there are about 5,000 households and I know about one data, that out of the total number of households that have introduced gas as energy for heating over 80% of them is from Vojvodina. Here we have the people's MPs from Vojvodina, we have an MP group who said it was a gas mob, that they would tear down the government, that they would do what I don't know if anyone dares to leave this price of gas. It's still standing, and the price of gas on the world market, or the entry price, has dropped to $290 per 1,000, and there's no one to tell. It says that, unlike the NS Parliamentary Group, someone collected political points in the public during the three or four days. Yes, Mr. Ratkovic, I see you're looking at me, you're from Vojvodina, you need to come out and say this before I do, because in this part of Serbia outside of Vojvodina there's much less of those gas-heating households. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, how this gasification was done in my hometown, in Chačka - by all citizens financing, primary and secondary networks, paying various taxes and paying all that. What if I were to say if they should get action within this "Serbiagas"? They participated, and this is now the property "Srbigas", the primary and secondary network. Are you ready, as minister, to stand by my proposal...? It moved about 5,000 euros per household. For 98% of Serbian citizens and households, it is not small money. Would you stand by my proposal that the state of Serbia, "Srbigas", the Ministry of Trade and the entire government, all of you there, deprive the citizens and pay them back that money? Give them back 5,000 euros, so let them rip wood, let them buy coal, let them know how they've managed so far. I repeat, citizens participated in infrastructure, in primary and secondary networks. All this is nice to the citizens, 100 euros one tax, 200 euros another tax, they brought it all, and now the bills come from "Serbiagas", from a public company, the director is not advertised, we won't take down the price, because it's a monopoly. I think it's a monopoly and it's a dominant position on the market and I'm citing a particular example. If I'm wrong and I'm not professional enough, I'm qualified enough to know how much my household costs a month, as well as other citizens. I think you as a trade minister are obliged to give them an explanation for this, especially when we had the opportunity to see that "Srbigas" as a public enterprise, as a state-owned company, in which all citizens are owners, it is a state-owned company and all Serbian citizens are the owners of the company, funded by professional sports clubs. I don't know whose money, which way and which citizens can turn to now. What can they do now? Do they cut the gas installations, do they move them out of the houses, what do they do now? It's not just the gas installations, it's the gas supply, it's the radiators, the heating bodies and the boilers with these performances, with that, all these legal conditions have been met. I say, each household cost an average of over 5,000 euros. Now somewhere shyly read on some site of a worldwide agency – we should cheape gas because the price of gas as a energy source on the world market has fallen. But she didn't fall in Serbia. We're a strange country, we're a land of hats, we're like Alice in a wonderland... (President: You're a little out of time, so bring it to an end. I've got 20 minutes. (President: You speak as an authorised representative? ) Deputy Head of Parliament. (President: Please. You didn't let us know it was you. We expected it to be Mr. Velimir Ilic, but go ahead. You haven't officially informed me. ) I believe that you would prefer to speak Velimir Ilic... (President: No, I don't care which one of you speaks. ) Unfortunately, he is not here right now, so I am trying to replace him as much as I can, although citizens will likely estimate that he will not be at the level of Mr Velimir Ilic, president of New Serbia. Mr. Minister, I could give you a lot of examples... No problem, I thought this was doing RTS when we from NS were talking. [[Disabled microphone.]] Water entered the coaxial cable. A little joke isn't on fire. Mr. Minister, really, honestly, I didn't ask this because of the political points, but believe me, when we MPs go to our cities, citizens don't look like us who fight politically as opposition and government, they look at MPs as their representatives and expect, regardless of whether they belong to a ruling coalition or to the opposition, to ask those who are asking questions, and it seems to me that the Ministry of Trade, or the Minister of Trade, should plead on this issue. It'll be a quick June of the month, University, July, August, holidays will pass, October 15 is very close, new heat season begins, and what should we expect? At this 60% again 60% on some basis, and for three or four months the price of gas was to be reduced. I expect you, as Government, to correct this injustice against the citizens of Serbia immediately. Here it has been promised to the Committee on Energy and by the prime minister, though, not from you, I can't remember whether you pleaded on this issue, that the price would be returned. Now I expect you to pay the citizens back. So much, I've had to ask you one of these questions, and I think it's grateful for you to explain it, too, because a lot of citizens expect it, especially in Šumadia and Kragujevac, Madam President, and that's where the gasification was done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21929	Thank you. Mr. Minister, do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21930	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to thank all the MPs and all the MPs who took part in today's discussion and their proposals and ideas certainly, if translated into amendments, contributed to obtaining an even more quality law on the protection of competition. Today's debate has shown that there is great interest in this topic and a great need for it to be better, better quality, more operational and more clearly regulated. It's just proof of that thesis from the beginning, that this is a law located in the epicenter not only of economic legislation, but of overall economic and economic developments in our country, as well as in all market economies. A few very brief comments. Mr Markicevic has somehow concluded his discussion in principle and I will make two brief comments: firstly, what you were talking about is contained as an option in Article 3 of the Law, where the provisions of this law are said to apply to public enterprises, companies, entrepreneurs. I don't know if the price of gas and all these gas problems from the beginning of this year came before the Competition Protection Commission. If so, it is likely that people there are professionally and qualified in doing so, and if not, I call on you, and other MPs and citizens, that all knowledge and all information, all evidence that someone abuses the dominant, or monopoly position on the market, to hand over to the Commission, so that they can do their job and sanction those who have disobeyed existing legislation, and in particular the competition legislation. I agree with you that if there is a basis for the price of gas to be lower and if the exact data is that the gas is cheap, someone needs to let us know what's not happening. I know that there is a formula for oil and derivatives, according to which about two weeks of price correction is done, primarily depending on stock exchange movements. This year we've had an intense shift in oil and derivatives prices since the beginning of the year. They've been picked up on more than ten times, actually. These are significant purchases, but are the result, above all, of stock prices and changes in excise policy. True, it was mentioned by colleagues from the Liberal-Democratic Party that today the price of oil and derivatives in Serbia is slightly higher than in the environment, but knowing how prices change in the environment, I expect these latest corrections in the price of oil on the markets will also lead to changes in the price of derivatives. Otherwise, I agree with the fact that if there's a longer period of time that there's a higher price for us than in the environment, it can relive that avet of smuggling and all of those things that we've had in the 1990s; we'll do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. There have been more comments from honourable Members of Parliament on the fact that this law gives too much discretion to the Government, at the heart of the Commission for the Protection of Competition. I suppose the MPs did not read the full law in detail enough, but focused on several members and based on those members who were reading the conclusions. No discretionary government, nor the Ministry of Trade, gives this law to itself. On the contrary, it is always the Commission for the Protection of Competition that proposes, the government adopts, in its own part, what the Competition Protection Commission proposes, and it is it which is empowered and obliged to produce a sublaw and to contribute to the quality of this law in practice. A few other very brief comments concerning, above all, the intensities of the legislator, which is indisputable here. Our wish is for clear rules of play, precise definitions, very strict powers received by the Competition Protection Commission and its members and the President to help some indeterminateness or indeterminateness in the application of the Law, which is still in force and was adopted in 2005, be removed. Practically, if we can say that the current law represented a "basic school" of competition protection, this law creates conditions for Serbia to "maturize" on this subject and, of course, in the years ahead of us to "end the university", that our market be regulated, such as the markets of the most developed European countries and the US market. This is the state we want by proposing this law and by adopting it in Serbia, that Serbia be a country of pro-pulsive, profitable market economy, where it is said to be the invisible arm of the market in the best and most efficient way to solve problems. This, primarily thanks to quality, work, creativity, innovation, let companies raise and make them attractive, profitable, regionally competitive. Unfortunately, let it fail, one that is not best managed, but that is the market Darwinism that is needed in every area of life, as well as in the market economy. This law should also help Serbia to make much better and more use of its economic potential, especially in the domestic market, and then in the region, and to agree on free trade under the CEFTA Agreement, where we are making practically the only relevant surpluses in trade with abroad, but also the Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation, the Agreement on Association and Association with the European Union, the recently concluded agreements with Belarus and Turkey practically enable greater exports of Serbian products and, ultimately, more satisfaction and us as consumers in Serbia. Because the more companies produce, the logically the unit price of the product will be lower. The more markets win, the better the quality will be for our market. These are the intensities of us as legislators in this case. I invite you through amendments, in the same or similar way as today, to discuss possible improvements to this law and, of course, to support this law in the voting day. Be assured that by supporting this law you have done a good deed not only for today, but also for the times to come, both for you and for the businessmen, for all the people you know and the consumers are, like all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21931	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since we have exhausted the list of elected Members, they have used all the rights of Rule 93 of our Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the search in principle. I thank Mr. Minister and his associates for their active participation and very high-quality explanations and explanations of this law. Of course, all MPs who have contributed to the debate are truly on one quality level, as this high home deserves. We move to a joint principle search of points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on State Aid Control, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Fundes and a proposal for a Law on Obligation Security in Co-operation Mrs. Minister is just coming to us. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the 3, 4 and 5th agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and that is: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a National MP who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Zoran Kasalović – Parliamentary Group SPS-JS; MP Zoran Shami – Parliament Group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica; MP Elvira Kovac – Parliamentary Group of Minorities; National MP Milorad Buha – SRS; MP Mirko Chikiriz – ZES; Mrs Zlata Djerić – MP NS and Judita Popović – LDP. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on State aid control, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Investment Funds and the Proposal for a law on compulsory insurance in traffic. Does Mrs. Minister Diana Dragutinovic want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21932	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we have three draft laws before us: a bill on state aid control, a bill on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act and a draft law on mandatory traffic insurance. I will take this opportunity to give as soon as possible all three draft laws. The first law is a bill on state aid control. I would just point out that this law was the subject of a public debate, and after a public debate, the government decided not to change the initial draft law, but to make recommendations resulting from public debates in the form of amendments to the government. The proposal for a state aid control law is a brand-new law, a very short law, which for the first time establishes a system of state aid control in the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for this law is in line with the legal assets of the European Union. This law does not apply to agricultural products and fishery products. What is the purpose of this law? First of all, the determination of general conditions and procedures for State aid control in order to protect free competition on the market, the provision of rules and transparency in granting state aid and the enforcement of commitments undertaken under international contracts. Let's get out of the way. This law, first of all, defines the state aid itself. These are expenditures that can be real or potential, or a reduction in the state's income at all levels of government that provide an economic advantage and a more favourable market position than competitors. A State aid provider may be a Republic, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government and any legal person who manages or disposes of public funds. The beneficiary of State aid shall be any legal or natural person using aid in the production, transport or provision of services on the market. This bill provides for exceptions, and these are state aid and state aid that can be allowed. Allowed State aid is the aid of a social character granted to individual consumers, without discrimination and granted to remove damage resulting from emergency circumstances or natural disasters. State aid that can be allowed is that aid granted to improve the economic development of an area, if this area has an extremely low standard of living or a high level of unemployment; then, these are projects of special importance for the Republic of Serbia, to improve and develop some work, to preserve and protect cultural heritage. The government educates the Commission for State Aid Control (the Commission has five members), on a proposal from the ministries responsible for finance affairs, economic and regional development, infrastructure, environmental protection and competition protection. Of course, the Commission for State Aid Control is operationally independent in its work and brings the Rules of Procedure. The Commission itself decides on the procedure of the previous, or ex-post checks on the compliance of notified and granted state aid and submits a report to the Government, i.e. a proposal for an annual report on state aid control in the Republic of Serbia. The Commission is co-operating with the state institution responsible for business audits, the authorities of the Republic of Serbia responsible for budgetary inspection tasks, as well, with the same authorities at the level of the autonomous province and local units. The Commission itself publishes on its website all decisions taken in the procedure of previous and ex post controls, as well as an annual report on the state aid granted, upon adoption by the government. Why is the bill important? The proposal for this law is important not only because it is practically based on the currents of European legislation, but also because in a different way it will determine what state aid is and what the effects of that state aid are. There are several types of state aid, which are: horizontal, sectoral and regional. There are several ways to report state aid: a state aid scheme, when users are not previously known and individual state aid, when users are previously known. There are different state aid security instruments. In previous laws, especially in the Budget Law, for each year state aid has been treated relatively simplified; therefore, when it comes to state aid, only subsidies were usually considered. Subsidies are a dominant form of state aid, but besides direct subsidies there are tax incentives of the exemption, something called tax costs in economic literature, so-called tax costs, so-called so-called tax costs. soft loans, i.e. loans granted to users under more favourable conditions than marketable, certain incentives and guarantees. Institutions to define efficiency. First of all, in the process of granting state aid, the objectives of state aid should be defined, then the time period of the duration of State aid, which are expected effects, not only through quantitative indicators, but also in the time horizon. It is very important to determine what is the beginning, when you can expect the first effects, and when the final effects of giving help. Otherwise, state aid itself moves at a range of 0.3% to 0.5% of GDP. The level of state aid in the old and new EU members differs; of course, in the old Member States it is relatively low and is below 0.5%, in the new members it is on average 1.5%. The Czech Republic's biggest state aid, about 2.5%. If we try to assess the total state aid in the Republic of Serbia, including agriculture, the same methodology is approximately 2% to 2.5%. This is the first time we've proposed this law. I must say that reports on the aid granted in the Republic of Serbia for 2006 and 2007 have been published and are on the Ministry of Finance website. As far as the second law is concerned, it is the law on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act. The existing law is an extremely restrictive law, and this has been seen in particular in terms of the financial crisis, the fall in the volume of trade in the financial market and the price of action. In that sense, the proposal to amend and supplement this law was intended to make this law less restrictive. I will point only to the fundamental differences between the existing law and the proposed changes. In the current law, a management company cannot participate in capital and other legal persons, nor can it acquire investment units and actions of the fund it manages. In this current proposal, management companies can acquire investment units and fund actions that manage up to 20% of the net asset value. They can place their own capital in the trust they run. In this way, they basically carry on their capital risks in the business of the fund and increase credibility. Also, the amendment made an adequate division between the management board's authority and the management portfolio manager. The management of the management company is responsible for the financial operations of the management company and the investment fund. Portfolio manager is only a direct contractor of investment policy. Under the existing law, the management company was obliged to hire at least one portfolio manager for each fund it manages. According to the current proposal, it is necessary to hire at least one employee portfolio manager indefinitely, with a portfolio manager able to manage multiple funds. It is regulated to acquire qualified participation, more than 10% of the capital, to protect existing shareholders. The possibility of investment in investment fund assets has been expanded. The assets of the fund can also be invested in investment units of open investment funds, which are not managed by the same management company, up to 20% of the value of the fund's assets. Since investment fund investment is defined, these changes practically allow for a certain deviation over a certain period of time from what the law prescribes. The six-month period has been allowed to bring the laws into line, and the adjustment period may be longer by three months during the financial crisis. The management company may directly or through an intermediary provide sales services. Under the current law, intermediaries can only be banks and brokerage dealers. These proposals extend the list of intermediaries, cover all natural and legal persons who have to meet those criteria laid down by the Securities Commission. Under the existing law, a member of an open society cannot acquire more than 10% of the net value of open funds. With this proposal, it is possible to acquire up to 20% of the net value of the open fund's assets. Finally, this law allows "lax" the possibility of borrowing funds to manage money flows, i.e. liquidity. In a law so far that, as I say, is extremely restrictive, only society could take a loan to the amount of 10% of the fund's assets, with a three-month maturity. Under this new proposal, a loan can be taken up to 360 days, a repo contract with other investment funds and thus better manage liquidity. I note, any changes made by the new law are the result of minimising the effects of the financial crisis on the business of investment funds. The third on the agenda is the mandatory traffic insurance law. This law regulates basic traffic insurance. This law establishes a guarantee fund, regulates its jurisdiction, funding mode, entrusts public powers to the insurance association. What are the reasons for this law? First of all, the need to raise the quality of the performance of compulsory insurance; greater protection of damaged persons in traffic, as well as the protection of the financial and social situation of insurance undertakings, as persons responsible for damages; security of greater discipline in the enforcement of insurance obligations; greater protection and faster exercise of the rights of persons entitled to compensation; the need to regulate areas of compulsory insurance by special law, which is in line with best European practice. In any case, this law is in line with international standards of supervisory and EU directives in the field of insurance services. The types of compulsory insurance in traffic are: insurance of public traffic passengers, motor vehicle owners, aircraft, boats, and provisions of this law do not apply to the transport of the Serbian Army. The secured amount is precisely defined, as well as the fee payment. The insurance company is obliged to make a premium calculation for each tariff group. The data for calculating the premium are completed contracts, reported damages, solutions, damages paid and reserved damages. Every society practically in its premium system must include a bonus-malus system, and the system is determined by the National Bank of Serbia. It must be included in the premium system of society. Jobs are allowed to represent auto-responsibility insurance. The commission itself must not exceed 5% of the gross premium, including the new value tax. Legal persons providing technical examination services of motor vehicles may be engaged in the sale of insurance policies. The National Bank of Serbia is being supervised. The National Bank of Serbia can temporarily or continuously withdraw a license to carry out compulsory insurance operations, publicly publish information on the untimely implementation of the company's obligations, take away the consent of the responsible person in society and impose a fine. There is also the public authority of the insurance association of Serbia. The Association shall exercise the following powers: carry out the work of the insurance bureau, conduct control of the use of an international insurance card, run an information centre, compensation bureau, register of harmful events, collect, process and store data, determine the amount of contribution paid by the company and bring the code of conduct. This law forms a guarantee fund. Funds for the establishment of a guarantee fund are provided by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. This was a brief representation of three bill proposals. I ask the Members of Parliament to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21933	Does the Financial Committee's rapporteur National MP, Branko Ljiljak, want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs Donka Banovic, who held an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration to discuss the draft law on state aid control, and Momir Markovic and Radica Jocic, who held an opinion at the Committee's session to discuss the draft law on state aid control and the proposal for a law on compulsory insurance in traffic, want a word? Yeah. Just sign in. Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21934	Thank you, Madam President. The draft law on state aid control is a fairly short law, consisting of only 25 members, although we all know that this bill has been in the works of the Ministry of Finance for quite a long time, i.e. at the Treasury Office. At the meeting of the Committee on European Integration, representatives from the Ministry of Finance, when they explained this bill, may be more in a joke, but this was etched in my memory, said this was "the most European law" on the agenda of this session, so those words "the most European law" inspired me to comment on this part of the session. The main role of the State Aid Control Institute is to prevent distortions of competition and to prevent the violation of free trade within the common European market that can be achieved by interventions of different authorities in one country, whether it is a government, even local self-government can challenge that. So, this bill and the proposal for a law on the protection of competition, which we have concluded today in principle, are in the role of creating a healthy, single market for Serbia and the EU markets. This poses a problem where it is a common European market or, I say, a future healthy European market in which Serbia will participate. It appears to be the future common European market in President Boris Tadic's head and head of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. I would remind you all that during last year's election campaign, President Boris Tadic and DS ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia signed the SAA in Luxembourg, and an integral part of the agreement and an important part of the agreement is the Transition Trade Agreement. The transitional trade agreement is one of the instruments; however, when it comes to the market and the preparation of a country that wants to become part of the EU, including that common market, it is an instrument that should gradually prepare those countries and the entire economy of the country, so that, when they meet all other conditions, they become part of the common market. I also remind you of the fact that the EU Council of Ministers, as soon as these parliamentary elections in Serbia were completed and a government of EU taste and others decided to block the application, or entry into force of the agreement. So you have an agreement that Serbia signed with another 27 EU member states, and after a few months they tell you -- you know what, this agreement no longer applies to us. For those who want to read and think about the message that was sent, the translation means that the EU does not think that Serbia should at all prepare its market or the economy for this future common European market. It is a reminder for the sake of, and I analyse these laws from that perspective of a member of the Committee on European Integration, and what kind of message has been sent to us at all. I do not dispute that the law on the protection of competition and this law I am currently talking about, on state aid control, will have some good effects, but as far as it is only in the function of Serbia becoming a member... I know it's been almost five minutes, but I don't know if you're mistaken... [[Disabled microphone.]] So as a member of the Committee on European Integration, I had a need to point out this element, not to argue that these laws would have some positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21935	Thank you. Mr. Momir Markovic, who also issued his opinion, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the criticism I made this morning in relation to the proposal for a law on the protection of competition also applies to this bill of law. Since I couldn't answer to Mrs. Kolundji this morning, I'm going to use this time, I need to tell her some things. Mrs. Kolundzija, the Competition Protection Act was adopted in 2006, the Fund Act 2006, the Law on compulsory insurance in transport in 2004. You said this morning – we were not involved in lawmaking and we are not responsible for the fact that the laws are not applicable in part etc. Mrs. Kolundjia, you voted for all three laws. In addition, the president of your party signed an order to declare those laws. Does the president of your party not speak to you, do you have any problems with the Democratic Party? Solve them inside the DS, don't burden us with it, and either discipline it or change it, it's your thing, but it can't be – we're little, we're little. You know, this roof, this building, this hall (the chairs were different, they were burned in the "buldozer revolution"), this hall remembers, from some other time, totalitarian, so they look a little bit like this, they remember some such statements; one of the delegates (they were not MPs then) spoke – you know, it's my opinion, but I disagree with it. Don't disagree with your opinion. As far as these laws are concerned, the Investment Funds Act came into force in 2006. Looking at this proposal, Article 23, I think I'm going to give it to those who wrote this law a calendar, because, gentlemen, either you've confused some concepts or slowly, you're introducing retroactive law enforcement on a small door. Article 23 states: “Article 1, Article 2(1), Article 7(1), Article 8(1), Article 9, in the work relating to the powers of the Commission on securities of value”, and so on, “apply from 28 March 2009. “ Madam Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, do you know when he was on March 28, 2009? Three months ago. Did you count yourself down a bit, or was this bill supposed to come at the beginning of the year? Now let's see why this law is now proposed. "The draft law on changes and additions to the Investment Funds Act (hereinafter referred to as the Law) has arisen as a result of months-long analysis of the real situation in the financial market, of the problems faced by investment funds," and so on, "the expressed needs of the fund industry and their existing potential members for certain changes. “It’s not this, but this second paragraph on these reasons: “The aim of the adoption of this law is that under the conditions of the global financial crisis, which has affected our financial market, which makes the financial position and business of society significantly worsen,” etc. You don't have to deceive the MPs in your reasonings. This is the basic reason, the financial crisis has made you change part of the law. To move on to this second law, where I have also issued an opinion – mandatory insurance. And that's the law that came into law in 2004. The reasons for the adoption of this bill are best outlined through the second attitude, which you yourself have written, just quoting: "... which does not contain comprehensive solutions to ensure the functioning of compulsory insurance." Why is it that the applicable law, which you have also proposed, in any aggregate state, that I am not interested in, why is it that this law that has been in force for the past four years, or five years, did not contain comprehensive solutions to ensure the functioning of mandatory traffic insurance? He says: “Because of the need to raise the quality of the performance of compulsory insurance. ” Wasn't there a need to raise the quality of the performance of compulsory insurance? (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Only two more sentences, though, are complex sentences. "Because of the need to bring regulation into line in the area... “
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21937	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants a word? No, I don't. ) Mrs Elvira Kovac has a word as an authorised representative of minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21938	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are currently on the agenda of three draft laws. These are mostly economic laws, and I thank Mrs. Minister, who is very professional, not as detailed as she can do, but very well explained the draft laws. On the other hand, I must express my personal disdain that this session was scheduled Thursday night, which the MPs, not only the opposition, to whom the minister spoke and did not pay any attention, did not have the opportunity to get to know each other in detail and in detail all the drafts of the law. I have one question. In the opening statement, you mentioned that there was a long public debate on the first draft law, on state aid control, and you said that you decided not to amend the law, but that the government has amendments. This means that it is not included in the text that we read and that you expect that in five days, when we push through this session quickly, I apologize, simply vote for these bill proposals. You need to think about those of you who expect support in this room, but who aren't in the government, which you obviously don't notify in time. It is not a direct attack on you; the attack is because I think it is not only opposition MPs who are unhappy with the planning of their lives, work and their obligations, but also MPs of the position, who are simply expected to sit in this room, to be silent, to work night and day. On the other hand, it's no problem for me to sit here until 22 hours, think realistically, today we're talking about a very important law, a proposal for a law on the protection of competition. The press is transferring what's happening by 4:00 p.m. What we're gonna do tonight is no one's gonna follow. The question is whether there's going to be a transfer for a game, which is more important. Tomorrow we will move on to the draft law on associations, everyone will talk about it; no one in Serbia will know, the daily press won't be able to read what we were doing tonight. You've explained it beautifully. Maybe someone will hear about it, but I don't think that afternoon, now someone's watching the session. It is great that the work of Parliament is public, but I think that this way of working is not adequate, regardless of what we want to do in the EU and we are rushing into the EU, but also the MPs themselves, the public did not have enough time to get to know what we are doing so quickly. I planned to present some of the things that you explained very nicely in my presentation, which is why in the voting day we will support these drafts of the law, so, if you'll allow me, after this brief political crackdown, I will continue. As we have heard, the Bill on State Aid Control regulates, as its name says, the control of state aid in order to protect free competition on the market and encourage the economic development of our country. As we have been informed from this very short bill, the fundamental role of the State Aid Control Institute is to prevent distortions of competition and violations of free trade in the Republic of Serbia. According to this proposal, which, as I mentioned, will support SVM MPs and the Minority Parliament Club, determine the state aid that it is and can be, which is a little unclear, but it is significant, and we believe that it is good in the legal text, that it is state aid of social character and that it actually helps individual consumers without any discrimination. On the other hand, it is aid that will be granted to remove damage caused by various natural disasters, disasters and other emergency situations. On the other hand, it's a little vaguely explained that state aid can be, not necessarily. When the legal text says it can, and it doesn't have to, we all know it's a very weak provision. On the other hand, those are very good suggestions. State aid can be allowed, as we heard in the opening statement, to improve the economic development of the area with a relatively low standard and if this is related to a high unemployment rate. This should be state aid to remove serious disturbances in the economy of our country or to implement a specific project of particular importance for it, as well as to improve the development of certain business activities or certain economic areas. When we talk about the highly undeveloped areas of our country, we hope that we will not again be in trouble with the developed north and the undeveloped south and that this bill will not only help the south again, and forget about Vojvodina, because it seems to me that a lot of the centralist writing is being written. What is still being proposed is state aid to improve protection and preservation of cultural heritage, which is extremely good. We from the Minority Parliament Club hope that when we talk about the cultural heritage and the culture of this country we will not forget members of the national minorities, as it happened when writing a proposal for a law on culture, where they are almost left out. As we know, the adoption of this law is really necessary from the point of view of the more economical and efficient availability of these funds that we have, or adequate allocations of these funds, where they really are the most needed. Of course, the adoption of this law is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, one of the essential preconditions that must be met to obtain some EU membership candidate status, and then EU member status, which SVM certainly stands for. The second draft law on the agenda is proposed amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act, which has actually been implemented since June 2006. In the light of the bill's proposal, we could read that these changes and additions were created as a result of months-long analysis of the real situation on the financial market. The proposed changes are solutions to certain specific problems that investment funds face. The aim of passing this law, and the reason why MPs of the parliamentary club that I belong to will vote for it, is to provide more stable and secure investment funds under the conditions of the global financial crisis. In view of the fact that the conditions of the major economic crisis really fall the confidence of investors in the capital market, there is a major outflow of fund members, so a solution was really necessary to allow these fund members to acquire investment units up to 20% of the net value of the assets, as the minister suggested. We have all witnessed in the last few months that the characteristics of this crisis that has hit the whole world, and very strongly our country, have recognised it some or not, are looking at a huge decline in stock trade, a decline in stock value, a drop in stock value, a drop in assets and funds themselves, a loss of market confidence and a lack of financial instruments and a very large, increased risk of investment. This crisis in our country has particularly affected the business of investment funds, the value of which is in constant decline, which is very negative and why certain funds have been shut down. For all of the above, we believe that it is really necessary to adopt emergency measures to stop the negative effects of the crisis on the operations of the funds, if at all it is possible to talk about stopping, or at least to mitigate these negative effects and to create such conditions for more stable future development. The third draft law on the agenda is the new mandatory traffic insurance law. Its adoption is necessary because the existing law, which is still in force, does not contain comprehensive solutions in this area that would ensure the functioning of mandatory traffic insurance. We at PGM and SVM think it is very important to raise the quality of the performance of compulsory insurance, and all for protection of persons damaged in traffic. I believe that we all agree that it is natural that there is a obligation for the owner of the means of transport to conclude a mandatory social insurance contract, that is somehow logical, as well as that there is a driver's obligation to have an insurance policy completed while driving that means of transport, but also the obligation of the owner of the means of transport for the transport of passengers in public transport to conclude a contract on the insurance of passengers in public transport as a result of accidents. Just for a short time, in two sentences, I would say that I am personally in favour of this, and I would particularly welcome the provisions in this bill under which each insured person loses his right to insurance in cases of unconscious driving, i.e. in cases of driving under circumstances that reduce his (or his) traits as a driver. I hope that will help reduce the number of irresponsible drivers who, under the fact of alcohol or other unwanted substances, threaten all of us on the streets. As stated by the Minister in the opening section, this bill proposes the establishment of a guarantee fund, which will ensure more efficient economic protection for passengers and third parties in accidents in cases where the damage is caused by the use of an unsecured vehicle or an unknown means of transport; their protection from the damage caused by the use of the means of transport, for which the insurance company is responsible for the bankruptcy proceedings. For all of this we will be there and in the voting day to support these proposals, but I sincerely ask that the MPs, as proof that you respect the dignity of this house, but also all the associates who help you, inform us in time and that we really respect the agreement. And, if you can, answer me concerning these amendments; we really didn't see them, and I didn't understand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21939	Ms. Kovac, I'd like to inform you that the State Aid Control Bill has arrived in the Assembly, and the next day it was delivered to you, 9. 12. In 2008, it was 27. 3. In 2009, the draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act entered the assembly procedure and was submitted to you in the first half of May of the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. So, for both you and the public, we really had time to get to know the contents of these bill. It is true that there will be no direct transmission from ten to six, but all those who are interested in following us will be able to hear in a delayed transmission all of what we're talking about. It is true that our work is intense, but we have defined ourselves to work intensively because there are really huge legislative activities ahead of us. Mr. Kasalovic Zoran has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21940	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SPS Parliament Club - the JS will support all three proposals in principle, the Bill on State Aid Control, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds and the Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport, the only draft law in this set to which SPS - JS MPs have proposed certain amendments, with a desire to improve this proposal. The proposal for a State aid control law in the Republic of Serbia for the first time establishes a new legislative framework in the area of State aid control which defines state aid in one way, and then State aid which is not permitted and permitted exemptions, as well as State aid control, and all in order to protect free competition on the market, with the provision of the necessary transparency in granting state aid and the enforcement of the obligations arising from the concluded international contracts containing State aid provisions. Thus, State aid, in any form, which distorts or threatens to distort competition on the market or which is contrary to the concluded international contracts is not permitted, as provided for in Article 3. It's a bill of law. Also, Article 4 defines exceptions that state aid which is of a social nature and which is granted to individual consumers, provided that it is granted without discrimination in relation to the origin of goods, or products which constitute concrete aid, as well as aid for the treatment of damage caused by accidents or other emergency situations. In this case, perhaps in the best way, one can see the need for such legislation. Unfortunately, we have witnessed several times that in conditions of emergency and disaster in Serbia there is one positive climate and high degree of responsibility, solidarity in such situations and there is no pronounced abuse. However, we are witnessing that at certain times this aid was not best distributed, did not arrive at the right time, and also did not achieve the desired effects. An example of this is an earthquake in the Kolubar district, where assistance was implemented in a transparent way but did not arrive; the problems of the location, in order to achieve effects with this type of assistance, were obviously expressed. Such a situation may have been defined during the 2005 flood in the municipalities of Secnica and Zitiste, where much has been done and the damage has been resolved, however, there is still room for certain damages to be compensated. Of course, if such a regulation existed, it would have been different. In this regard, we expect that in the future it will contribute to a better solution to these problems. These types of State aid, the legislator considers an exception to the general rule, as it is considered that under the specified conditions, they do not distort more significant competition on the market, and above all, on the condition that the selection process itself is fully transparent and equal for all suppliers, thereby preventing a particular distortion of competition on the market. What is ultimately important to say for this law, which is sometimes the most important, is the very process of controlling state aid. It shall be carried out by the Commission for State aid control, established and proposed to Article 6. It's a bill of law. It is important to say that the Commission is only an expert body, not an inspection body, and that the State aider is obliged to submit before the granting of assistance to the State Commission, and that before the granting of assistance to the user, it should put into account the Commission's decision on compliance and assistance with the law. Otherwise, the commission may order the state aid provider to recover the amount of State aid granted increased by legally tightened interest. Also, which is very important and that is why I also said that it is not an inspection body, it informs the competent authorities and institutions, as well as the budgetary inspection, in order to continue to act in such cases. It is clear that this area of state aid allocation control is being regulated for the first time in a comprehensive and comprehensive way and that an institutional framework is being created to exclude any kind of abuse, which is one of the preconditions for joining the EU, which essentially constitutes the strategic interest of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act, the SPS-JS MPs recognise it as a significant incentive for the success of the government's package of measures to overcome the negative effects of the global economic crisis. We consider it necessary to secure the business of investment funds in the context of the global financial crisis, which is reflected through the above mentioned parameters, primarily through the decline in traffic and stock trading, the decline in stock value, the assets of the funds and the confidence of market participants, and the increased risk of investment in all forms of assets. Accordingly, we will support the proposal to allow the management company and its related persons to invest their assets in investment units and actions of the fund which manages, up to 20% of the net asset value, which is an additional incentive for founders to place their own capital in a way that promotes the operation of the fund and at the same time bear the risk of business. We will support the management company's obligation to engage at least one portfolio of a fixed-term manager as executioner of a defined investment policy, and the possibility that investment restrictions may be exceeded within the first six months of the establishment of the fund, as well as the extension of the list of persons who may be intermediaries in accordance with the Commission's act, in order to increase the competitiveness and efficiency of investment funds operations. The proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law is, as I said at the outset, the only draft law in this set on which SPS-JS MPs have submitted several amendments, with a desire to make it more efficient and efficient. It is a proposal for a law which primarily respects the instructions of the European Union, i.e. five directives, and regulates mandatory traffic insurance. I would like to say that this means ensuring passengers in public transport from an accident; ensuring the owner of motor vehicles is responsible for the damage caused by third parties; ensuring that aircraft owners are responsible for the damage caused by third parties and ensuring that the owner of the water facilities is motorised and connected vessels are responsible for the damage caused by third parties. I wanted to say this because this is about our amendment to article 70, and I'm going to take the opportunity to say something about it briefly. In addition, this law also regulates the establishment of a guarantee fund, jurisdiction and finance, and the public authority of the insurance association of Serbia. When it comes to this area, I think it is necessary to say that practice has shown in us, as well as the experience of some countries, that there is certain ignorance and ignorance of citizens about what is actually covered by a valid policy. We have often witnessed some unwanted and unpleasant situations in traffic offences, or accidents in which damages occur, and there are difficult words, etc. It seems to me that this law represents an attempt, a step to create a different environment than what we currently have, with the goal that all of us, based on one truly valid record, will be aware that the damage will be compensated, which offers us one certainty and that the climate actually prevails and understanding that after this unfortunate case and the occurrence of damage is the most important life, and that the car or other kind of damage will be compensated. I think this bill is really on the verge of creating such an environment in the area of mandatory traffic insurance in the Republic of Serbia. That is why the SPS MPs will support him and, of course, certain solutions, which I would like to highlight and comment on. Of course, not everything is possible, it is really one large and very significant legal project, but I appreciate that there are several newspapers, let's say, first of all, that the insurance company can't refuse the offer of a mandatory insurance contract if the insurance contractor has accepted insurance and tariff conditions, all of this is regulated by Article 5(2). Then, the policy is uniform for the entire territory of Serbia and is prescribed by the NBS, which certainly contributes to better records and reduces the possibility of abuse. Also, one important news, to be mentioned, is provided for in Article 31. This is about introducing a European traffic accident report. It has been found that the insurance company is obliged to hand over one such European report, which is subsequently properly completed and can be used as a compensation request. We see here possible efficiency, in the sense that the participants in the accident agree, in some cases, without the police present and in this way achieve the damage claim, and we know how many times there is really no mood to solve this case in this way. What I would like to delve into is a member of 44th where it is said about the possibility of persons performing technical examinations, which remains a confirmed practice in the Republic of Serbia, dealing with and insurance. We know that there have been certain dilemmas in the debate and that there may be one reasoned position that those involved in the technical examination should specialize in this type of work and pay more attention to the fact that cars on the roads come out primarily correct and that responsibility for insurance is assumed by insurance companies and that they bear complete responsibility in this regard. There may be a dilemma – if this type of work is already done by someone other than insurance companies, it could, apart from technical examinations, be done by other legal persons or other institutions. Perhaps this should be considered in the next period, so that the money that would be achieved by commission and work on these jobs could be significantly better invested. Article 45 is particularly interesting. We talked about it when it was a traffic safety law. It introduces an obligation to allocate part of the assets from the auto responsibility premium, so 1.2% of the gross insurance premium, which will be used to establish and operate video surveillance to improve traffic safety, within five years. Our view is that this may be a short term; I am convinced that the results will show by the end of this deadline that it should be extended. Because, according to some estimates, revenue of 10m euros is expected in this period, which will be used for these purposes, which will certainly act preventively and make these very poor data on the deaths on our roads very different. In this way we will save, first of all, our lives, and of course insurance companies, i.e. insurance companies, will have less to do, in that case and less to do on the basis of premiums, and the revenue of the budget will be higher. I appreciate that this is a really, really, really good solution. I'd like to point out what's already been said here. It is very important that the guarantee fund seems more efficient and better, above all, in the sense that the damage will be paid as soon as the bankruptcy of the insurance company is declared responsible, not waiting for the bankruptcy to end. This will certainly make the situation better and more certain for the users of the insurance. I would take advantage of the opportunity to finally say that we have submitted amendments to Articles 23, 35 and 70, and it seems to me that they are truly meaningful; as far as Article 23 is concerned, the deadline for submitting damage claims. The law on bond relations regulates this area in a significantly different way and leaves it to be transferred to court, beyond the possibility of this law. Our proposal is that it be 30 days and we will discuss it in detail. We also think that the cohesion that existed between certain laws, in terms of the requirement to refund funds, is being exceeded by Article 35, but should go to the end and should not be left to ask for such a refund of funds; it simply needs to be deleted, and to put "extend" in place, so that they are obliged to seek recovery of funds. We think that the special powers in Article 70, which is why I initially stated what mandatory traffic insurance is and that insurance that regulates this law should refer to that type of compulsory traffic insurance, and not to all others that exist, which are also mandatory, such as ensuring the responsibilities of authorised actors and others. I'd like to invite the Minister and the Government's representatives to consider it now, and in principle, we're going to push for it to be accepted. In the end, I would like to invite all MPs to support these legislative proposals, because they are really good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21941	Thank you. In order, representatives of parliamentary groups should go in size, but I suggest that Mr Zoran Shami now has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21942	Thank you. Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, first of all I have to say next. When she represented the laws, the minister spoke, if I'm not mistaken, for 17 minutes and 12 seconds. I don't mind, it just shows that a brief statement on the three laws so excessively should last. We're here again, for who knows which time, faced with the merger of three points of the agenda. It's about serious laws, not technical laws. It's about laws that have nothing to do with each other. What does state aid, investment funds and traffic insurance have to do with it? In doing so, our Rules of Procedure is such that one MP falls 72 seconds; if the three laws are serious in the game, it means 24 seconds; if each fifth MP speaks, it means that one law has two minutes. What's too much to say about a serious law that has 110 members in two minutes? I know that Madam President of the Assembly will explain that it was a legitimate request, which came from the MPs of the parliamentary majority, that it was voted most of the votes. It's all regular, of course, but I have to tell you that I didn't once put together the agenda of the Assembly, and that, after all, what points are going to come together, which, I'm sorry, is the President of the Assembly responsible. He's responsible, because he can't allow exactly the kind of situation that happened with these laws. Now I'm going to deny myself. There's something that connects these three laws, which is that none of them are right. I will explain this to you on the case of traffic insurance law, and my colleague Mr. Obradovic will later, today or when we discuss details, explain it for the remaining two laws. We got the text of the traffic insurance law in time. The first thing a man wonders when he sees a serious law is why it is being passed. It is quite clear why it is being passed – because previous laws have been passed in the 1990s, and to make things worse, they are not even then God knows what they have changed, but they have been prescribed laws since before 1990, therefore, from the time of the one-party system. At that time, the traffic insurance system, about, looked like this – mandatory insurance comes to him as some kind of state tax, and if any damage is done, the damage will most likely be paid by God, as it was on very exceptional occasions. Such practice, i.e. hiducia in the work of insurance companies in relation to traffic damage, was continued later. Anyone who's had a chance to try to charge someone, even a very small one, knows what I'm talking about. A few years ago, I got hit by a lady, she was guilty, nothing was disputed, the damage wasn't great because the car was cheap; I was charging 200 euros for about three months, though, I say, nothing was disputed. Now we've got one text of the law in which, at first glance, things are being fixed. Some European values are being introduced, some European rules of play in something Europe has been applying for a long time. The best evidence is that when you're dealing with insurance in a foreign country, you charge it efficiently and without any problems, even insurance companies provide you with insurance and car repairs. What's the trouble? The trouble, ladies and gentlemen, is that there are a large number of provisions, especially those new provisions, which are expected to start in two years, three years, the day of entry into the EU, so to be optimistic, in ten years, and so far these same hiducan rules of the game will apply. To be clear, we from the Democratic Party of Serbia are reasonable people, of course there are some provisions that are impossible to apply before we enter the EU; there are such provisions, it is not controversial, but there are many provisions that could be applied immediately, whose application costs nothing. But no, we won't, we want all those who are privileged to continue to be privileged. There are cases like this, I'll give you a few. It is provided for in Article 6, one of the provisions, one position of that Article 6, reads: ‘If the NBS determines that the conditions of insurance, tariff and premium insurance provided for in Article 1 of this Article are not made up in accordance with the regulations, actuarial principles and rules of the insurance profession, it shall issue an order to the insurance company to comply with them within 30 days’. An excellent provision, however, says nicely in Article 117 – the provision of Article 6 applies from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union. Is something costing us to bring this in? It doesn't cost anything, we just don't want it, we still want hiducia. You want another example? Article 17 states, among other things: ‘If the owner of the means of transport has not concluded the insurance contract referred to in Article 14’, and so on, ‘or has concluded an insurance agreement with the insurance company which has been subject to bankruptcy proceedings, and an accident has occurred, the person referred to in Article 1 of this Article may request payment of the amounts secured from the guarantee fund’s assets, in accordance with the provisions of this Act. “ I have to explain, this is what the Minister mentioned, the establishment of a guarantee fund behind which the state stands, in order to protect the insurance company, if incorrectly, unbusinessfully, incurably, the insurance company, and then the state will pursue the appropriate insurance company. That's an excellent provision, not to quote now members of the guarantee fund. However, Article 117 states – a provision of the member concerned which establishes the guarantee fund... On the other hand, it is not in Article 117, but 111: "The guarantee fund will start with the operations set out in this law at the end of two years from the date of entry into force of this law. “ Why two years? I would understand that you said from 1 January 2010; some budgets are needed, so once we allocate the money in the next budget, we will make a guarantee fund. I understand that, but I don't understand why for two years. There are more stories like that. In Article 43, this was also particularly pointed out by Ms. Minister in his presentation, a good thing, says: "The basic criteria of the bonus-malus system, the data for the application of the system, as well as the highest bonus, are determined by the National Bank of Serbia. “ In the previous position, it is prescribed whether insurance companies have to introduce that system. Great provision, trouble is we're just predicting that it will start to apply for three years after this law is passed. You know, I simply have an alternative proposal: let's postpone the adoption of this law for three years, because everything that's new anyway, and we're good at applying it in two, three or ten years, when we enter the European Union. This law is an excellent example, in our political practice the terms Eurofanatics and Eurosceptics are used, Mr Djelic will know better. I do not fully agree with the definitions of these categories, however, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that the ruling majority belongs to one third category - Eurofolators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21943	Mr. Shami, I would just like to remind you that it is true that I draw up the agenda, as you did when you were president, however, proposals and decisions to merge dots are made by the Assembly and individuals, MPs. That's how it was this time. Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21944	Madam President, I'm advertising Rules of Procedure, Articles 27, 100 and 85. You have informed the MPs around 17.15-17.20 hours that the transfer takes up to 17.50 hours. I think you were obliged to inform the citizens at the same time, because they are calling us, asking us questions on the phone – when the delayed transmission begins. At the same time, let me ask you, is this becoming a rule? Do you in this way make citizens who are interested in the work of this congregation stay awake in the late hours and watch the broadcast, for we in the congregation are dealing with very important issues? I think it's incorrect, first of all, towards the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21945	Of course there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure don't regulate the time of transmission. We are obliged to provide the public with work, which means delayed transmission when technically not possible otherwise. Business isn't regulated, so there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied, would you like to take the Parliament's vote in the day to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21946	Just for a little while – can you give the citizens a heads-up on what time it is tonight, or tonight's video of the delayed transfer of the Assembly meeting, where we have three very important points?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21947	You have all the information I have. The moment I get the information when the transfer will be postponed, which is common after the sports activities that are being broadcast on the second RTS program. Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word. Here you go. He's not here. Then Mrs. Judita Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21948	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have three laws on the agenda in this debate; everyone chooses the law he likes most and talks about the law, and it is mainly based on a political debate on three very concrete and very important laws that are on the agenda. For me, the favorite law on state aid control, I think it's one of the most important laws, because it's about control, directing the funds that are needed for certain reasons, which are listed in the law, and it's always about help. The very name of the law - state aid, speaks of its essence. This law has a problem like any other laws passed in this assembly – whether it is enforceable. Will there be a political will to implement the law or will the ex post executive power by its regulations change directly the essence of the content of certain provisions of the laws that are essential to the law? Article 23 of this Act on State aid control is now giving the government the possibility, i.e. to the executive authority. Since we already have very negative experience with the usual way of law enforcement through regulations, we suspect that these regulations that have been passed and which will be necessary for the implementation of this law will indeed be consistent and in favour of the implementation of this law. We have no guarantee that these regulations, after all, will not distort the provisions of this law, change the purpose, purpose and content that has been declared by certain provisions of the law. It's one of the basic diseases that exist, because, I say, it's a serious matter of state aid. In the light of this law, it is correctly stated that the law specifically provides for the provision of funds to be controlled, to be directed where it is really necessary, to specify the rules on how to use state aid, and to explicitly specify the conditions under which someone has the right to apply for that state aid. However, when we read this law a little more carefully, we see how much it is, in fact, indicative, general and how it provides unchaste opportunities for the discretionary assessment of the government itself, therefore, the executive authorities, in the application of the law and in the guidance, giving and state aid. That's why this article of the 23rd Law is very problematic. Indeed, I expect the government to stick to its responsibilities, its responsibilities, at least with regard to this law. If she doesn't take care, and she hasn't led back a few years on other laws... Here, in this assembly we talked about the direct involvement of the executive authority in the work of the courts and the regulations that are directly contrary to the positive regulations of this state, as well as the Constitution. We talked about several regulations adopted from June 2008 until the end of May 2009, which are directly contrary to the Law on property-legal relations, the Law on Bond relations, the Law on Transport of immovableity, constitutional provisions and the like. Therefore, when I mention some negative expectations about this law, I do not speak in vain, but I have experience in applying so far and implementing the laws passed by this congregation. Unfortunately, this law is also an example of centralization that continues to be very cheerful and very serious in this country. For this, you have a direct example of this Article 6, which speaks of the Commission for State Aid Control, and everything related to Article 2 of the Law, and point 2) which defines that the State aid provider is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government. When we read Article 6, there is no autonomous province, there is no local self-government, or they are not in the commission that allocates these funds and which decides on these funds, which controls how these funds are spent. It's all at central government level. Then it is said who is doing everything to that commission, as it is formed and said – the control of state aid under this law is being conducted by the State Aid Control Commission, which is being educated by the Government on a proposal from the ministries responsible for finance, economy and regional development, infrastructure, as well as for environmental protection activities, and the Commission for the Protection of Competition. It is very interesting – therefore, the funds in the name of help can also give local self-government and autonomous provinces, and in doing so is decided by a republican commission. That the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is one of the legislators of this law, it is normal that we would also have that sign "national" commission, since this ministry loves everything with this sign "national": National Investment Plan, National Savings, National Agency, National Programmes, etc. There is no "national" here, it is a simple name – a Commission for State Aid Control. But that doesn't change the essence of that commission, it's a centralized body from the Republic and local self-government and the province have absolutely no authority, according to this Article of the Sixth Law. It is really important how state aid is given and it is really important that we bring our standards, as regards the granting of that state aid, in line with European Union standards. This is also the case with some earlier experiences when state aid was directed, say, to the private fishing land of Eckko, which, for example, last year was given the name of the Tsarska Bara 25,000,000 dinars, and was planned to pay 34,793,817 dinars for private fishing land. I note that this smudge is intended for what the fishing industry has only caused. The fisherman's mastery has thrown mud into the Tsar Bar by flushing the water; the mud has accumulated and instead they are bound, like the governors of the Tsar Bar... It's a special nature reserve, noting, a special nature reserve. In that case, when the damage was done, instead of removing it, the state provided assistance to eliminate and damage caused by the increase in mud in a special nature reserve. Isn't that not only non-domestic, but, moreover, a harmful way of directing state aid and using and state aid? Isn't that in today's crap at the end of the day shameless? We're saying we have to do budget rebalances, we don't have that much money, we don't have to subsidize this, we don't have the money to help these and those, that the crisis is big, and by doing that, one private company, a fishing land that's only done damage, we're paying 25,000,000 dinars, with probably paying off the difference! Instead of punishing a special nature reserve manager as a state, we are also rewarding him without checking whether that money was spent on what he was wanted for, whether the goal was achieved, which is the answer of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. It is, for example, the preservation of biodiversity, permanently, without the occurrence of distortion of the fundamental values of natural good, preventing further degradation, etc. When reading the provisions of the Nature Protection Act adopted by this Assembly, which particularly highlights how a special nature reserve is treated, that visiting this special reserve is strictly limited and for education purposes, so that it can be carried out on the basis of the authorisation issued by the protected area manager... In doing so, the Ministry of Environment says the most significant and most endangered part of the old Korite, the natural stream of Begey, has been revitalised. "The removal of huge amounts of organic and other mud achieves a more free circulation of water, its higher quality and enables a easier and more pleasant tour of the reservation by boat. “ So, in addition to all the goals that this Nature Protection Act has declared to protect the special reserve, if all the objectives declared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection have been found only in this free and beautiful vessel through the old Begei arm, in which case we are in a great deal of trouble. We are in a great deal of trouble because the funds are being spent irrationally, because these funds are not being controlled, which remains, although the Ministry has warned that the objective has not been achieved and that what has been envisaged by the joint plan and the programme of the Ministry and the private fishing industry is still not responding, no control is being sent, nothing concrete is being done to assess whether this money has been spent in such a way that it should be spent. That's why we should welcome this state aid control law. However, we cannot greet him, because we have absolutely no guarantee that this practice, which has proved to be very bad, will change, because this law does not have in itself any provision guaranteeing in any way that control will work effectively in each respect, both in terms of giving funds and in terms of spending funds, especially as a member of the Commission, is also marked by the Commission for the Protection of Competition. We do not see what the Commission is looking for to protect competition within this commission, which is made up of the people proposed by the Ministry, and in this case the Government is apologising, because in this case there is some kind of conflict of interest; on the one hand, we have a Competition Protection Commission, and on the other hand we have people from the Government, so from the competent ministries. It is interesting, for example, to point 4 of Article 5 of this law, which says that state aid is also possible to improve protection and preserve cultural heritage. In doing so, we don't see anyone from this Ministry of Culture, but that's why the ministry is responsible for environmental affairs. I don't know if it equals the Ministry of Environmental Protection's jurisdiction with the Ministry of Culture, or if it's some kind of a failure to write this proposal. All in all, this bill has some shortcomings that we can't pass. If this law does not change in a more significant way in particular, we do not believe that we can vote, regardless of what is said in the context of the bill's proposal that this is a European law, that this law is in line with European standards, because we do not find it in every segment of this law and, so many times declared, European standards. With regard to the mandatory insurance law, on the one hand, I would like to welcome the provision of a law relating to the obligation of the guarantee fund. This obligation arises at the time of the bankruptcy proceedings. This is a good solution compared to the practice so far, as bankruptcy proceedings have been pending to be implemented in order to include the guarantee fund as the defendant in the damages claim. However, as the previous speaker pointed out, the problem is with this law, which extends the application of certain provisions that are crucial to this mandatory insurance law. As another major problem, I would point out the lack of mandatory tractor insurance. Last month, we discussed the Traffic Safety Act. I think we agreed that security on our roads is at a very low level. This is largely to blame and tractors who meet daily on our bad, narrow, no roads. But apparently because of a strong lobby of insurance companies, they are not obliged to be insured. This makes it difficult for those who are damaged in traffic accidents to be properly and compensated, primarily because of tractors that are often very old and because of farmers who often do not have the means to compensate. We also have damage to the side of the one who caused a car accident through his tractor, as well as serious damage, which is irreparable, to the side of whoever was damaged in that car accident. Therefore, I believe that this mandatory insurance law would have to take care of real life, of the reality of our roads, of the reality of all the vehicles moving along these roads, which is, among other things, that tractor, which is often the cause of car accidents. Therefore, the LDP once again points out that we are in favour of European laws, we are always in favour of applying European standards in our positive regulations, because this is the only future for this country, however, we support these regulations if we see that these regulations are indeed, that this is not just a declarative pawnship and that there is indeed the will and possibility for this executive authority to implement these laws. Therefore, if you propose laws that meet all these criteria, the LDP will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21949	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21950	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, we have before us a set of three laws that, according to some unusual criteria, are joined into one point, that is that verified recipe of merger of grandmothers and frogs, but I will try to talk about it in a way that interests the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, given that these laws are very closely linked to the Ministry of Finance. First of all, the state aid control law, as Minister Diana Dragutinovic said, is a law that is completely new in our legislative practice. It should provide some security to those in need of State aid, i.e. to be controlled and state aid that has arrived so far and given in various ways for some purposes. In this law, which is promoted as a European... Otherwise, here is a very common promotion of some European standards and European laws, so far we have adopted many; these are, by the way, all our conditions to be integrated into the EU, in what, frankly, I doubt, after some information, that even in 2020, until we are now delayed this possible entry into the EU. So the state aid control law is already in its first member, although there are only 25 members, completely unfair and discriminatory towards a group of Serbian citizens. In his second position, he says: “The provisions of this law do not apply to primary agricultural production and fishing. “ So, agricultural producers, what we swear a lot, what is our only future and chance, have no right to state aid. What further makes us a little skeptical under this law, Article 3 states: “State aid granted in any form, which violates or threatens to distort competition on the market, unless otherwise prescribed by this law, or which is contrary to the concluded international agreements, is not allowed. “ It’s illegal state aid. You always have "except", "if," which leaves the possibility of an exception, a precedent, or the possibility of the law being bypassed at some point. What has irritated us particularly in this law, I do not remember that many laws have been passed here so far in this assembly meeting without installing a new commission, a new council or a new agency, regardless of which sign, national or international, but always new state jobs on the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's an increase in public spending, it's a new debt to the IMF, it's a new dependence on these institutions, a new financial addiction, and we know that whoever we're financially dependent on dictates government, politics and everything else. With this commission to determine this state aid, to set some criteria there's a lot that bothers us. She has five members, two times five, five years of office. We don't understand why five years of office. Is it not logical for him to follow the mandate of the National Assembly and be replaced with the next National Assembly? This is likely to happen, whether regular or early elections, and by all accounts will be premature here, and the commission will, once established, be replaced very quickly, regardless of this legal provision. What is not expressed here in this commission, and it is with the previous one, which was promoted in the previous law, there it is said that they will be paid as judges of the cassation court... This is not the case, but it says in Article 7: "The funds for the commission's work are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The ministry provides space and other conditions for the commission's work. “ Since we are promised to adopt hundreds of laws, European and pro-European, we will hire all of Serbia in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I see that the government here has turned the state into its own company, but I just don't know who's going to charge the budget, because what doesn't work in the state administration will be these unemployed desperate people who'll strike hunger. That way we'll have polarized Serbia to the end. With this commission, we cannot support this either: when it comes to the appointment and termination of the commission's mandate, under point 4), it is one of the conditions, which says – if convicted of an unconditional sentence of at least six months. We've seen this before in some... It is by law, but since the Commission and the members of the commission will be proposed by the government, we know who makes the government, these are ministers from certain political parties, I expect they will stand behind some people with credibility, who will not get to jail in their term so easily. We know how to get to jail time, what to do with it. I guess a little of these people are gonna check, I guess they're gonna have some personal and professional integrity, so we don't have to think about it. If we get to those who come to jail and that's a condition to leave, it's gonna be awkward for Serbia. It is used mainly as one of the funds not to go to jail time; if there were any justice in Serbia, the prisons would be very close to us. Article 12 is also something that we dispute in term: State aid scheme and individual state aid – state aid is reported as a state aid scheme or individual state aid. We disputed the term "scheme", we felt that the term "plan" might be better. First of all, “scheme” is not our word, it should be preserved in legislation as many of our authentic words as possible, because we are witnesses to be cut off daily, among other things, and in language, in everything that is national, in language first of all. Let us remember some of our great people in history who have said what it means to devastate language and every word; we should apply it in our legislative practice as well. This is what bothers us in this law, especially in the first member of the exemption of agricultural producers. This is another discrimination against agricultural producers, which are, in fact, the only economically independent in this country. You can't blackmail them with anything, because they know that they depend on their ten nails and on God's will, or weather, meteorological conditions and how much they do. They're the hardest to blackmail. They're the strongest, hardest-lived, hardest-working, but they're also the most independent, and that's why they probably won't have the right, no matter what happens to them, to this state aid. What really bothers us about this law, which is new in our practice, is that for this commission, which will primarily be a party, there is not a single relevant condition for determining the members of the commission, when proposed by the Government, at least to be visible or as an attempt – that the members of that commission should not be party figures. This would show a good will for the commission to be objective to all citizens, that not all state resources need to be put into the service of one or several parties that make up the government, so anyone has made that government. No one can convince me that in this way there will be no institutionalization of another kind of corruption, and as far as corruption is concerned, we stand pretty well on the ranking list in the world, if you let me put it that way. Putting state resources in a situation so that they can be used at the will of a party or some party leaders is not good. We have already said a lot about the law on regional development; you will see in a short time what in political practice and in our daily practice this law will be passed, it is already announced in the daily press; and you will see in this law how much trouble we will have when people seeking state aid are left to mercy and mercy, and how some mechanisms will run there. So that's what leaves the space for corruption. I have no illusion that this will not be implemented in this way, because I know examples and I know from personal practice what is currently happening in relation to the realization of some projects in Serbia. The second law, which I'm going to say a little bit about, I'm going to talk more about when it comes to amendments, is a law on mandatory traffic insurance. First of all, it is a law belonging to the Ministry of Finance, and we recently passed the Transport Safety Act; what should have been shown to the citizens of Serbia, it is that this government and this Parliament are regulating one area at a time, and therefore I believe that this law had to go with or right behind the Traffic Safety Act. Because all those involved in traffic, drivers who were most interested in the Traffic Safety Act, are extremely interested in this mandatory insurance law; we are all extremely interested in its application. According to what is said, it is in line with some European standards. We'll see about that, too, because I know that some court proceedings to collect damage to the water for up to ten years. I can tell you from a personal example, and up to ten years you're not in a position to collect any damage caused by traffic or damages. These are things that might have been united at the time because of the citizens of Serbia, that they would have the impression, and that it would really be shown to them, that we would edit one area at a time. So, a little law from here, a little law from another area, a little law from some third ministry -- I have the impression that we are adapting here to the free time of ministers who can then come, so the laws are put in place, instead of really having one area circled and finished, as it was done in the autumn with laws that reformed the courts, no matter what they later passed. That's why we won't fit into that Corps that will support this item of the agenda, that is, these three laws. I think we'll still have a chance, when we talk about the amendments we've made, to say one more thing. Why did I talk about these European laws and about not being so sure that we would enter Europe in 2020? I wish Mr. Djelic could say more about it, and I'm going to say one thing that may be stale, but personally, as a man, he intrigues me very much. In 2000, a high-ranking meeting was held in Bratislava, organised by the US Foreign Ministry and the foreign political institute of the republican party. With that rally, where we had three representatives, Willy Wimmer sent a letter, a report to the German Chancellor Gerhard Shredder at the time, and cited what America was planning with the EU and the Balkans, and there was the theme "Balkan - NATO Enlargement". As the eighth point, he cited something that has been very haunting me as a man for some time, given that it was only last year in the NIN published by Nikola Zivkovic, translator and journalist from Berlin, translated. He says, under point 8: "This is why Poland must be surrounded by the north and south by democratic states as neighbours, Romania and Bulgaria to ensure a land connection with Turkey, Serbia," possibly due to the provision of an uninterrupted military presence by the United States, "must be permanently excluded from European development. “ In 2000, a very serious, respectable force said. After that, various events followed and we are unable to engage in this European development, so I would really be interested in seeing what happened here; it seems that America has completely changed its attitude towards us, so now it will allow the EU to see us? What did Mr. Biden say when he came in? Is there any chance that we will ever be in the EU, because so many European laws have been passed, even some in which we are "more European" than the Europeans themselves, say the one about discrimination where we have overcome them? I think we can now be an equal EU member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21951	The word has been passed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, authorised representative of the Group of Representatives, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21952	Before I move on to the law story, I really need to ask one question. I don't know why this haste is now and joining these three points of the agenda? It's really inappropriate to put together a discussion of three laws in 20 minutes, one of which we've waited really long for, and that's state aid control. The president gave an explanation for the delayed transmission – when she has information, she will let us know. We are not in a position to ask such a question to anyone who decides on a delayed transfer, but the president of the assembly can. I'll speak personally as if there are all 250 MPs here and it's like it's the time in which everyone listens most carefully to what I have to say. We truly view it as one measure of lack of respect, not us, but what we need to solve together. The State Aid Control Act is something I've been talking about all the time, making remarks that when proposed for adoption, the Republic of Serbia's budget does not contain a framework called the "top law", in which subsidies and all the public funds that have been given would be kind of framed in familiar criteria that are available to all. In this sense, I really welcome that the Assembly has come to the decision of the Bill on State Aid Control, because I am reading it – a law which obliges all those who have public funds that, when they make concessions to the burden of the budget or when they directly give money from the state budget, they must prove that they have been earned by that person and that these funds will achieve some common good, not any individual interest. That's how I read the competition. The fact that agricultural products and fisheries are an exception does not mean that they cannot grant subsidies to that area, but that they are regulated by some other rules and do not fall under this type of control. If I'm not reading it correctly, it means unlimited, it's still possible to encourage what's called agricultural production, or produce agricultural production, but it doesn't fall under this law, because you've given such an explanation. I would hate for the government to lose that part of its credibility and give us false interpretations in an explanation. What I want to point out above all is the principle question that it is already a trend for the most important state affairs concerning corruption and which directly or indirectly speak about the abuse of public funds, resources, even power, if you want me to say the most directly, to decide the bodies that are outside and beyond political and social influence. On the one hand, some of these bodies, agencies, regulatory bodies even advocate full independence from the government and thus society, but do not want to lose contact with the government, or society, or political influence when it comes to proposing members of these bodies or when it is necessary to provide them with working conditions. That's what we have here, too, so the same way we have the Anti-Corruption Agency, or any of those bodies dealing with control, use or abuse of media space, the sky above us, the means we have. Everyone's pushing for us not to get involved in their business, not to get their legislative body involved, and not to get their executive powers mixed up. I'm simply asking you, is there any more perfect form of social affairs being done and having an impact on them, and that is not the achievement of a state called the national state in parliamentary democracy? So, if we as MPs and you as a government are elected in some electoral proceedings, so every move, movement, ability, diplomat, profession, private life is exposed to the court of the public, and when we do, I call them public authority... The right of me to speak on his behalf is the most public and responsible authority. If we in such a procedure are to be proposed, licensed to get the right to speak, why would we now transfer our responsibility to some regulatory bodies and some organs that slip out of control, influence? I'm not talking about abuses, I'm talking about exaggerating them from the influence and control of what's called political power, but not in a persuasive sense, but in one responsible sense, the exercise of political power. I simply want to ask, is this what Draker is talking about, where the national state, Bodenov, literally lost its meaning in a way that the state remains sovereign in its territory and defined by those borders, but that it gradually loses its influence, because part of it transfers to something called the transnational authorities? You know what I'm talking about. I am talking about multinational companies, transferring part of the government to regions, that is, the regionalisation of a part of the state government through the transfer of powers, competences and controls to the EU, and that some of these state attributes and businesses are literally tribalizing, assembling some tribal traits. Are we consciously experiencing and giving in to trends in which we are responsible, but we do not have the mechanisms to bring this responsibility under our control? They say the national states will die. I don't believe it, but here we are witnessing that the state is increasingly sharing its power with the institutions and some other policy makers. The Commission standing here in this bill of law exactly the way you propose it, that it does not have to be from the government's ranks, may but may not, is talking about this government's indecision to perform the function it has been elected. Don't tell me we're playing waltz today and we all have to play waltz, because that's simply not true, not even for the regional development law. When Mr Dinkic said – yes, that is what they ask of us, Mrs Susana Grubjesic of the same party says – no, they do not ask us, you, as I do, you know that none of us ask. Yes, we need regional development law in order to be able to use resources, but none of us ask us to do regionalization; it's a cover-up behind other people's orders, because someone here doesn't want to include their potentials and say -- other people's experiences, other people's laws are not a hat that stands well on our heads, for many reasons. We're not going past the world, we're not going to be some Tuarez, in the name of distinction, to live some strange life of our own. That's not what we're gonna be. But I really don't see that one such important law, which should talk about controlling the use of public funds, comes on the agenda on Thursday, that I intervene on Friday, that regional development hangs on the site so that I can, because I live in Novi Sad and am not physically present, take a proposal and that for the weekend, not leaving time for private life and my family, we are preparing amendments to this law and that I am then unsurprisingly surprised that at the time I submit amendments, the Government also submits. You, gentlemen, in that indecision that you have responsibility for what you are responsible for and by the nature of things should answer, submit on 8 June, when we, too, amendments, where even the language formulation of "primary agricultural production" are translated into "agricultural products". How can I say that you are serious, thorough and that you respect both public funds and this congregation? For example, it impotes me that you have adopted two of my amendments through those amendments of yours. Not to me and my vanity, but to your responsibility that some rejected decisions in the previous procedure be presented on the Internet presentation, I said, web site, because it is necessary. I wonder if you wrote this law on Wednesday and delivered it to us on Thursday. The best intention for public funds to be controlled in one defined procedure, counting that it doesn't matter to anyone, and that nobody will remembers it, you step out the way you deliver it to us to decide. You have regulated by law that everything that is real and potential public expenditure should be subject to control, and there is no dispute. Do you think there's anything left unregulated? Did some kind of public authority remain unregulated and unencumbered? I think so. Didn't he teach you the authority of the Privatisation Agency, the misuse of public funds and the spilling out of that kind of authority to somehow embrace this law? You have a bad experience called the empty state register because it's not a controlled enough organ that has the most valuable, the most exorbitant and one-time means. You didn't take the chance to put it here. That says it either in favor of the surface or that you yourself don't want to put all your income... Any revenue that needs to go into the budget or under control didn't want to be covered by this law. The law provides for a five-member commission to decide on this; it is the representatives of the ministries and it is now my story from the beginning. The ministries are proposing and later the text of the law shows that they may even be employees of the ministries, which I am asking by amendment intervention to disable. You can't put on a committee of people working at the ministry because you don't have people, because if you had people, I'm not talking about quality, if you had people to prepare this human, this law wouldn't come in and be corrected after two or three days. Your people, I know that you have few, on voluntary departures, if necessary to reduce the number of employees, these are not employees across the line and on the side, who can do quality work. That someone has a regular job, that they can devote themselves to this kind of responsible work, for a fee that we can't see for what the frames are, at the same regular working time, or that they're not going to rest at all and act like a normal person, it's just not possible. Because the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the way the money is being pooled, or the discrepancies of what needs to be brought into the budget, and the way they divide is saying that this is a very big and large business. It speaks of the proposal of these people with a very clear and open political background and that there is no place of independence of what is said, independence as is expected, for example, even the National Bank. For the first time in a thousand times, I will repeat to you a thousand times a court - when power, politics, society does not control monetary power, then monetary government controls both the government, and society, and parliament, and we have things upside down, which are also the results of economic policy. So you who are in charge of keeping things under control have to do it, but not in a way that you give someone as much work as they can't do, and then have an excuse that these people don't have enough time to get into this job, for which we get negative points. And if we're low-class by something and we're dependent on it and the amount of interest and investment, directly, indirectly and any financial means, then it's just abuse of financial resources, or corruption. If you leave it unregulated, it is clear that you are leaving one field in which you can enter, as in the criminal space, all those players who have already proved to be very skilled to use that space. This commission won't lead to a major administrative apparatus awakening, up to five people, but that's why the ministry will do all the jobs it needs to do. However, what kind of operational independence are you talking about if she submits a proposal to the government for an annual report? Gentlemen, please, the government cannot control itself by writing a proposal. The commission has to deliver a report to her. The ministry is preparing a proposal for the commission, and the commission has to stop behind it, and it has to be a final court, which the government can declare in the following way: to refuse, to accept, to partially reject, but you in your function are the power to say yes, "no", "can", "can't", "can't" even when you pass the law you can't avoid it. There's no way you're talking about the board's control. Then it's some operating body that's working on your data, so it's not an integrity commission, if she can't deliver the report. So I really don't understand that we're talking about control, and you're not actually allowing that control. You have provided in Article 11, which is for me one of the key members, that the State aid provider, or applicant, is responsible for the truthfulness and correctness, or accuracy of the information listed in the application. Please, if you do not normally listen to me, listen to this sentence: “The applicant is responsible for the truthfulness and regularity of the information listed in the application”. This is the wording of the Public Procurement Act, when the competent authority gives an opinion and says, "Do it or not, but you answer." This formulation builds on the failure of the privatisation process. You have to ask the applicant for a document or a copy of documents issued by an authorised authority and signed by an authorised person to know that you judge on the basis of true data, not to tell anyone - I decide, and you answer. When the milk spills, there's no one who can put it back in the bin. You can't introduce yourself to a responsible government that's been showing irresponsibility through a single formulation like this for eight years, with devastating results. Why do I say privatisation? Privatisation prospectuses are delivered to the Agency to sign them; they have been signed by, worst of all, unauthorized persons – copies, lists, which have lost thousands of squares and are lost today. The "Comgrap" is your case, four thousand square meters, the building that exists here, in front of your eyes and mine. Machines were lost in the privatisation of sugarcane when Kostic, MK Komertz, was doing it, machines that are being seduced in registers as immobilities, and no one wanted to raise the issue of prospectus credibility. Because once you leave the wording to match the person who filed the application, but do not enter whether he signed Mika Peric off the street or authorized person to represent the company behind which the board of directors, shareholders, is behind, in this percentage or that percentage. That's why today we're talking about unsuccessful privatisations (more than a quarter of them) or broken contracts, and I'm not even talking about success. Please, I have given the amendment where I specify what everyone knows. I come to the loading dock, and the gentlemen tell me – the Messenger of the people. I give the MP's ID, they say, "We know you." Yes, you know me, but you need to make sure I have a valid parliamentary ID. That's not hard for me. Why is it difficult for you, or why it is difficult for anyone who submits that he is giving some help to prove that everything that is important for you to decide on this assistance does not violate the criteria you have prescribed, to prove to you, but to the authentic documents. Why would we citizens have to verify various documents and pay very expensively when we prove our identity, when we send a child on a field trip and guarantee him? This is proven by a credible signature that in front of a man in court, a sick person has to come to sign, and this can be said. I can't believe it! I really can't believe that you think that practice of this kind of responsibility should be carried out consistently, that is to say, to cut it where it requires the importance of work. Pre-control procedure, too long-term. You are asking the Commission to decide on the compliance of notified state aid within a period of not more than 60 days from the date of receipt... (President: Excuse me, Mrs Tabakovic, do you want to use the time of your parliamentary group as well? If I don't disturb your plan and mode of work, I'd be happy to continue. (President: Please. I thank you. A period of 60 days is given to answer whether any aid is compatible with the provisions of the law, but it writes – it cannot be longer than 60 days. Here is the place I will answer immediately and say: help is in accordance with the law; whom I will not answer, I will wait 60th day. Did you prepare this law for 60 days, but that's why you can hold an object in someone's drawer for 60 days? You know what you can do in 60 days? What kind of investigation do you need to get into for some help that you need this much time? Or it's a staunch bureaucratic practice to discourage someone from being the applicant of a request, or to be the one who gives some help in accordance with these laws. It is outrageous that you plan to take the follow-up control procedure "on the basis of your own information or information obtained from other sources". It's like we're reading the tabloids. Is this the law or the tabloid – “or information obtained from other sources”? My people, aren't we going to tell the citizens that they need to be brave and that they won't suffer the consequences if they report someone and that if they file a report that some aid was used by law, and they sign, they won't exactly have that organ that they reported sending someone to create a problem for them of any kind? Why do we expect people to be afraid to report illegal acts? I remember, it was in those fiscal registers, so the bills, so it was reporting... Well, don't teach this people to be showing off, but to be responsible citizens, who you respect, with a name and a last name, who won't suffer the consequences of any kind. Protect a citizen by not publishing his name, but he must know that by putting his name in front of the application he can bear the consequences for his own, I will not tell a lie, but the superficiality that he reported someone without having any arguments. It is clear that the follow-up procedure should be carried out on the basis of its own information, but also on the basis of information from signed sources. Or perhaps you could finally use all the information that stands in the final accounts of the NBS, which is stored from vaults and foreign reserves and which can be obtained even for research purposes only with huge money. In these final accounts, all legal entities can access data, even of this kind, but that independence of the National Bank that I just said, or such bodies, means that even the state can't reach that data, but has to ask for this kind of registration from citizens. The secrecy of the data – you are asking that those who work in this commission cannot in any way report the information about this "without saying the letters", I believe, "the consent of the persons to whom they apply". I'm asking a question, what's the secret today? What was the arrest without notice or without television footage, and what information from the private life of any public figure remained secret? I really wonder if this is the little impudence that you went out with before the MPs, where you're guarding someone who's been doing a completely regular job, giving state aid, or providing security or anything about that radio, tried, so you refused in the previous procedure, and that it has to be such a secret that you have to give explicit written consent to, unless it's available information. I don't know why it takes this kind of protection and who it is and what's more important than any citizen, man, individual, minister, MP, anyone I have in mind right now, so I'm saying. I really don't understand what kind of secret it is. If you've singled out something that works for the country's weapons, security, something that's about any kind of importance to all of us as citizens -- no, there's got to be something so important and important, and I can't figure it out, so I'm asking you. Based on data collected from aiders, the ministry will prepare an annual report. For that report, you didn't set a deadline in the law at all. I have proposed to the amendment that this deadline be January 31st, because I think after the final booking of every business year, and before handing over the final bill, there's no reason for anyone to behave comfortablely to that extent, I'm not going to say that you leave him room to read anything, but to deliver those reports. One word, one good intention, I don't know, with some kind of lack of courage to keep things under control, turned into what I can't call a good law. Indeed, under the assumption of the adoption of the amendments, I know the proverbial conceit of a government that has no intention of adopting and adopting these amendments, I am telling you that we cannot vote on this law under these conditions, even though it is beyond the need of this government, this state and these citizens. When it comes to the Investment Funds Act, I will ask you, Mr. Ilic, you work at the Ministry of Finance: should you have given us information in any document, even in these amendments delivered on 8 June, that what you put in our proposal for the law as a regulation has already been applied on 26 March 2009? By reading those two nights, as much as I had to prepare for all these laws, I thought investment funds had started to countercipatingly apply the law. Astonished by the behaviour of the investment fund market, the practice of the protfolio manager's movement, I say – I know that there is retroactive law enforcement, but that there is anti-cipative, I didn't know that. As you know, the Internet era, the government must have published information on its website and – I am surprised by the Government of Serbia's regulation on the investment of assets and the borrowing of companies to manage investment funds and investment funds in terms of financial market disturbances. The law was delivered to us the next day, or the same day, it doesn't matter. You will say, on the day we passed the law and sent it to the congregation procedure, we did not know that we would adopt the regulation. On that day, on the 26th day, did you have two government sessions, it's not the subject of my research now, I just want to tell you that it's amazing that you're hiding something that, by your judgment and your right to assess, was an emergency measure that should have been taken. The regulations aren't something that isn't applied to government work, but why keep it quiet? Because I'm going to draw from this the obvious conclusion that this document, a regulation that you have translated into law, is actually a document written by Focus Invest. Mr Djelic will know, it all came together in the end at Citadel. He knows, of course, that he has a memory about Citadel. “Fox Investment”, an investment fund management company (and what to do, the Internet is it), the results of research on why investment funds have a limit on investment – it says nicely that the biggest interference is Article 6, which cannot be bought by their own investment units. Then a nice Focus Fund explains to us in detail how difficult it is to work and work; it probably complains to someone and the government goes through it in an express way in the regulation, and here we are today, in June of the month, we need to legalize it. You know, I have a personal problem, I always tell my kids -- don't tell me about the thing you did afterwards, I'll give you support for what you thought you should do. You, as a government, were right about that. I resent the essence of these solutions, but it is not correct that "Fox Invest", which has been taken over by "Citadel", writes the law, that you represent it as your own here. It's not the first time, by reading the "white book" of foreign investors we've always known what the barometer of the law will be. There was always an announcement of legal regulations in those books, and I knew exactly what would come on the agenda for adoption in this congregation. It's not a problem, I'm talking about the procedure, the bottom line is the solutions you've come up with. You've allowed investment funds to acquire their own investment units, to have portfolio managers, not just for one investment fund, but for more funds. How does that fit in with employment, keeping jobs? How does this fit in with the waste of social energy, where 4,000 euros were paid a license for a portfolio manager? Do you, with your hard-earned diploma, throw it into the water by making it easier for that employer, the owner of the investment fund, to work by telling him – no, don't hold one portfolio of managers for every investment fund, you can do one for three. Do you know, Mr. Djelic, that he's a portfolio manager and doesn't do his job, that they're renting their diplomas? I believe you know some of them. They're asked to stay out of their business and not do what they know. They rent their diplomas, making market development, financial development the worst possible way, and you help employers of investment funds make it easier to work. You further allow investment funds to be in debt, 20% (the earlier solution was ten), and that borrowing, which was intended to bridge current liquidity problems, goes from 90 days to 360 days. Have you advocated that any production company should be reprogrammed in such a way by those Vienna debts, not the Vienna debts, the "cross-border" debts of the Vienna banks, to postpone them from 90 to 360 days, to allow them to make short-term loans under these conditions? Can citizens be in debt, not a third, but 60%? You doubled them right. I am not one of those who thinks there should be only production and that modern civilization operates on principle – there is no bread without a pest. Yes, I advocate real production and real value creation; it can't be from blowing up investment balloons and from inflating the value of actions one country can permanently live successfully. But you can't completely destroy, for example, Article 11. The Investment Funds Act, where you allow those first six months to not even have the necessary founding role to play. What you give because of the current crisis as a possibility will become a rule. Who will give the investor's security in the investment funds in the future if he doesn't have the initial founding capital, as prescribed by the law, in the first six months? You're not making an exception, you're putting in the first position of Article 11, and normally, everyone's going to act like it's a rule; and it's a rule of how you define it. As for investment funds, you can spread the red carpet of bills whatever you want, you can offer them the most liberal terms, and you offered them here, you just know, like me, that nothing will be worth it; from 13, two funds are already closed, they will still be closed, because they no longer have the promised contributions, or expected donations. Because the economy doesn't work, the good part of those funds is based on what's called production, so they buy their investment units. You know why? In Croatia they learned the work of investment funds from Slovenia. Slovenian and Swedish funds came to them, picked up the kajamak, and Croatian participants in the investment funds market learned the job. Where did they pick up the Kajmak? You want me to say it or you? In the Serbian market, it starts with the FIMA fund and so on; slightly Montenegrin and Macedonian. Investment funds set up here, domestically, it doesn't matter whose, who's the owner and who's not, they have nowhere to go to buy a Kajmak. It's not just a financial crisis because it's not worth speeding up in this way, which I'm not going to use a more difficult term for, but it's really inappropriate. It's not worth giving in, no matter how much you give in. Is that even the reason why investment funds are held as something that makes the financial market develop, or is there some other reason? Is this a complete laxity of connected faces and entering into the ownership of other funds, private funds, with almost complete release of the framework, the possibility of fantastic money laundering that we will fight by passing some other law, establishing some new organs or something like that? This time, I'm not going to give examples and I'm not going to give answers and opinions to the authorities, but I really intend to say, you're even the rules that the Securities Commission has brought on this matter, literally, by adopting one such, unreasonablely liberal, law. A complete failure, the adoption of a law on investment funds, with which you have not proved to be a government worthy of these MPs to decide on, or governments that care about any development that should be based on some real criteria. I don't think the amendments we're going to explain in some regular procedure are going to be any pleasant matter we're going to talk about. I'd like to say just a few words about the mandatory insurance of motor vehicles. Mr. Ilic, you were a representative of the Ministry of Finance when we passed a law that allowed the privatisation of the DDOR. The fact that the owners of the "Fondiarie" are rebelling today saying that they're not really in favor of this law that you're making, I wouldn't say it's full of truth, but there's truth in it. It's scary for me, and for domestic insurance, it's terrible that this law that speaks of compulsory insurance of motor vehicles is the indirect fulfilment of the conditions that we qualified at that last session to get the first 50 out of 150 million dollars in aid, for making us aware of our private, domestic participation in insurance companies by a few more percent. You are well aware that, in light of this law, it cost to reduce participation in the banking sector and in insurance companies. Do you know how many cases for the shut down insurance companies are still in court? Do you know how the remaining domestic insurance companies operate, and from what the power of the Lords of Triglav Insurance says, "We line up those who need to control us in the National Bank," not choosing either the place or the time to make the announcement? I have no paranoia at all about the existence of Serbia as a colonial country in any other sense than when we allow economic laws that coloniality, and it's about some bit of unhappiness or some bit of sweetness, as our people would say. I really think that way... I see, you were surprised, you know what they say – we didn't buy DDOR because it has a nice administrative building in Novi Sad (it's really beautiful), we bought it because of a network of distributors, or those who sell policies. Do you today, by this law, when you allow the branches of these foreign societies to do these jobs, assure us that you are fighting for the development of what is called the domestic financial industry in the insurance sector? When we read the laws, we see how many pawns and stories that you're doing hollows; just words that don't have any works behind them. I'm really sorry that you didn't deserve to vote at least for one of these three; I'm really sorry that you allowed us to talk about them in this procedure. But my grief is small to the material damage that will be called the loss of the Serbian economy in the insurance industry and in what is called loss of reputation, which will not be able to recover in a decade, in terms of investment funds. When it comes to state aid control, I hope you still have a chance to correct the amendments and at least put this country in order, in line with those in which the aid goes gladly, and don't get lost where it doesn't belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21953	Thank you. There are two minutes left for your parliamentary group. Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21954	Madam President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to answer a few remarks in a few minutes, the suggestions we have heard so far, and also to say a few words about this issue of Europe and its effects, and some of the deeper issues that we can see as an illustration of something good, and some perhaps bad, in terms of Serbia's sovereignty in this process. As for these laws, those concerning insurance, that is, the financial industry, the Ministry of Finance held a public debate and every participant in the industry had the opportunity to see a legal proposal, and he was also able to suggest. There were several round tables that were transmitted by the media, printed and electronic, so it is in no way true that any of these laws was prepared in a dialogue that was not completely open to all participants. It is very important to note that although this is not always possible, these two proposals are fully in line with market participants, not in the sense that each of them is fully satisfied with what was done, but all arguments have been exchanged and they know why such a law is passed. I'd like to start with the insurance law. That law is, and we've heard it in the debate so far, very necessary. The system proposed, the bonus-malus system, is one of the largest and most positive insurance market innovations in Europe since World War II. As former finance minister, I can tell you that here we have the equivalent of insurance and insurance that will reach our citizens, insurance that regulates rights and obligations in the event of traffic damage. This is an innovation that can be measured in the same way that value added tax was an innovation in the domain of fiscal policy. Unequivocally, all countries that do not have a bonus-malus system introduce it, because it has proved to be, on the one hand, as a way that the target is approaching what is an optimum, which is that those who respect the laws show a dose of caution do not pay for those who do not have this dose of caution and responsibility, and on the other hand, the system in general is sustainable, i.e. is able to deliver damages to those affected at the given moment, which is the original, noble idea of the entire insurance concept, so that we can all take a little apart today and find the necessary money for those affected at a certain point. In this way, we can have more economic life and people being able to move into certain activities that would not be possible without insurance. Why do some of the provisions of this law come into force gradually? That's how it went rationally in applying laws like this. One such change requires organizational, information and human preparation. It would be irresponsible to introduce one such system overnight and it was one of the elements of the discussion to introduce such changes as soon as possible, that our insurance companies could be able to implement them without it being something that could lead to a disturbance in their business, especially at a time when the active insurance companies situation is very difficult. In the best possible way, through an open discussion, an optimum was found, which is one year, two years. Those provisions that have been discussed, in terms of what would take effect at the moment Serbia enters the European Union, really concern those things that are obligations of an EU member country, but which would be too much of a cost to our system, and would bring little to the moment when Serbia is preparing to join the European Union. The bill promoter, Government, and the vast majority in the Assembly will support such a rational introduction as soon as possible, but without additional costs that are not necessary in our system. In that sense, we in the Government of the Republic of Serbia would be very pleased, and we will try to make such an effort through further discussion, that a very broad number of our MPs in this House support one of these laws. Like what the VAT introduced in Serbia's public finances, the bonus-malus system introduces much more justice in tariffs, allows for a better system and stability in the insurance system. It's about changes that are of a technical nature, but they make a huge improvement in what is very important for a huge number of our citizens, which is that they pay the right tariff and be provided in the right way in our roadways. Therefore, I believe that this is a law that we can call European, and maybe we don't have to; it's a great law, it introduces a system that has really shown itself in developed countries, in transition countries, and all countries are preparing to introduce it. It's time for Serbia to do the same. As for the investment fund law, there were several arguments. I think we can all say that the way to finance our economy will long be based on funding through the banking system. It is also today, essentially, the way in which economic activities are financed in continental Europe. We can even say that this crisis, unprecedented, was caused by the fact that one number of investment funds was without sufficient regulatory control, and we can especially say that this control was largely divided between several regulatory bodies. In particular, in America at this point, therefore, the crisis has begun, working to connect one number, already four on the merger list, because they were unable to fully see what was going on in those funds. Here's a domain where Serbia has made an effort to have a way of controlling which is very clear. We have two regulatory agencies and it is not an accident; it has been done through a comparative law analysis and, more importantly, experience, and we have come to the National Bank, on the one hand, and the Securities Commission, on the other hand, which share this responsibility. Some have talked about who will pick up the Kajmak, what it is that can be done through the development of this industry. It is clear that it is in the interest of our country that our savings are, above all, for the development of our businesses. When I say our savings, I didn't say it was necessary for those investment funds that are active with us to have majority Serbian capital. The most important thing is that the largest amount of savings is used to develop our economy. One number of countries well regulated it, the other a little less. There is, as in everything in life, a particular economy, a real balance and balance between, on the one hand, directing those funds collected through investment and pension funds (which are not on the agenda today) in what are the potentials of our economy... We can say, when this law was passed, including the Pension Funds Act, a large number of market players said that there was a great commitment in many things to go into Serbia's potential, and that we should not forget the second objective of the investment fund, which is to ensure diversification of citizens' investments, which means that there is an interest in investment in our country and investment in alternative, other securities of value, which would allow for the diversification of risk for those who invest. There's an interest in protecting the interest of our savings, of those who invest in investment funds. What is proposed in the amendments and additions of the Investment Funds Act is a proposal for a balance that should ensure that, on the one hand, our investors have security in what they invest – in this sense, there is no big relaxation, but a harmonisation with a number of European directives that regulate what the financial services industry is – and, on the other hand, to enable us in an operational way to ensure that investment funds, which have problems with the global economic crisis, are falling globally (there has also been a correlation with the stock market in our country), can lead this business in one rational way, not because someone has a specific love for these investment funds, but because there is in Serbia's national interest that there is an investment fund industry that will represent the link between finding the savings and investments in the charters and thus enable them to develop them. It is about recognising the reality that the stock market in Serbia, as well as elsewhere, has fallen significantly and that one normal functioning should be allowed, not that quality funds disappear at this time. That's the whole point of this law. Our investment fund industry has shown it's capable of having a good start. She's still in overdrive. It is certain that we will have a long time to fund our economy through the banking system. I would like to say, since there is little talk about it and I think that Mrs Tabakovic has had several very interesting views on this issue, we believe that as far as the insurance issue is concerned, we have a source of funding for our economy which has been under-exploited. If we look at the German experience, the way Germany developed after World War II, we can say that, among other things, it was essential that insurance companies and reassurance in Germany be able to invest on a long deadline in the development of German companies. In this way they had long-term resources and time to develop and were not immediately exposed to what, by nature, the short-term stock market requirements. It's the difference that existed between German and Anglo-Saxon capitalism. In that sense, the future of all insurance companies in Serbia, especially those where our country has majority capital, I am talking about the Danube Insurance, is of first-class importance to our country. This is not on the agenda today, but we must say that this law regarding compulsory insurance in traffic, given that it is a key insurance market, that a large part of the premiums received by our insurance companies are coming from this source, will actually enable the real development of our insurance companies, including that function that was mentioned earlier, and these are long-term investments in our businesses, in such a way that they can withstand the competition of regional companies, including multinationals. In that sense, here's a big subject, and I'm sure we'll have a debate on this very important moment very quickly both in the government and in this esteemed home. The third law is a law on state aid control. This law needs Serbia for one good reason, because despite this crisis and the rebalancing we had this year, items are appearing in the Republic of Serbia's budget where certain programmes can be implemented. It is important that these programmes be arranged, that there are criteria under which legal entities, natural persons can receive state aid from the Republic of Serbia. It is one of the great conditions and one of the envisaged commitments to the SAA, but this first reason is much more important. In this regard, transparency has been ensured, all reports that will be completed by the commission will be reported on the government of Serbia's website. The fact that it is multi-sectoral, that it has a representative of several institutions, and that this time there is an orderly way of seeking justice and state aid is a big step forward. Lawmaker, the government of the Republic of Serbia will pay close attention to all suggestions from members of parliament. Here's another law, and that's how I understand the intervention so far, which is for most MPs and, I'm sure, for all parliamentary groups, and not only the ruling majority, absolutely in place, it's time to adopt it. Here is another balance: we are adopting it, but we are also predicting five years of transition period to agree fully with very demanding conditions, which are primarily bureaucratic and due to the difficult EU system. This is at the same time how we, after obtaining candidate status and the qualification of our financial system, will be able to provide much more significant resources from the European budget. This is how we will align our system with what is necessary to get the taxpayers' money in Europe. For including my exposure, I'd like to say a few words. Mrs. Djeric talked a little bit about this, about the various reports, about who wants us, who doesn't want us, who said anything, whether there are any secret reports. The right to tell you, it's the least important. Basically, what we have to say is that our country, after about ninety years, is sovereign again. Our sovereignty no one can take away from us. Serbia, as was the case of restoring its statehood 200 years ago and a few years ago, is a country that can voluntarily enter any form of reduction or division of its sovereignty. That is the meaning and European integration. We do not have to come out of European integration into European integration. The Member States of the European Union have the opportunity to exit the Union. As one analyst, the British, said, the European Union is specific about this – the European Union is the first common empire to enter fully on a voluntary basis, from which it can come out if it no longer wants to stay there. There are some debates to be avoided for which there is no room. Serbia should go further into European integration and other integrated processes, only if it is in its national interest. This is the way other countries that are in the EU set that goal, share in information and sovereignty where they are in their best interests. For example, is it in the interest of the Republic of Serbia to have with it the power of the world's largest trade bloc at the moment of negotiations in the World Trade Organisation? There is, because this way we, as a future EU member, will have the opportunity to have arguments that we ourselves do not have. This is why even bigger economies than ours have the interest that, with their membership in the World Trade Organisation, they belong to this great duty-free zone called the European Union. On the other hand, there is thinking, and there is a great debate at this point in the EU, and very quickly there will be debate with us, whether, for example, in the area of the financial sector, there should be more integration at the continent level, to protect the citizens of Europe, in order to avoid a situation where a number of banking and financial institutions in Europe, Germany, Italy, went into risks on the US market, and afterwards, that has had an effect on other EU countries, which may have had a more stringent approach to the supervision of these financial institutions, but since there was no common European approach to this issue, it was later, too. It is now very current that question whether one controller, one institutional regulator, should be established at the EU-wide level to monitor it. It's going that way. Of course, national interests are also present, and lobbys, and the fact that not all institutions coming from a given Member State are at the same level of development and participation in the market. As a result, such a reform cannot be easy, nor will it be quick. Here is another example where through experience, which is bitter, Europe reveals: Member States, sovereign countries, for which no one can take a word and say – no, you are silent, someone else will decide on your behalf, consider carefully, gradually where it is in the common interest to share certain things. In that sense, it is in Serbia's national interest to pass these three laws. On the one hand, we have a law that will provide a much clearer and cleaner market, greater security and better tariffs, much closer to what is the real risk of a given driver. It is in the national interest to adopt one of these changes in the law, which is caused by this economic crisis and by harmonising with European regulations, as regards investment funds, but the national goal is to preserve the capacity of the national investment fund structure, which will focus our savings on our country's development. Finally, it is in our interest to have transparency in the way state aid is being implemented and at the same time qualify for much more abundant funding from the European budget, so, as far as all these issues are concerned, I think we need to look at Serbia's interest. Serbia's interest overlaps with our European integration in many ways. If it does not overlap, we will review this first, and not this second, but experience has shown that, in globally, European integration has had a positive impact on the development of these countries, on the standard of living of their citizens. This does not mean that this structure is perfect, we have seen it in elections for the European Parliament that have just finished, but here is a structure that has had a great and positive effect on all those who participated in it, and so will be with Serbia. Dear ladies and gentlemen, you have three laws before you that are good for Serbia. There are three laws before you that are good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You have before you laws that are good for Serbia's economy and therefore be assured that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will make this additional effort to respect all the objections and suggestions, regardless of whether they come from a position or opposition, to bring them into line and adopt them, hopefully, with a very broad majority. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The ministers will be there to answer, or we will talk when we talk about the amendments and it will be even more detailed, if necessary. The word is Mr. Buha. Replica? There's no basis for replication. I really didn't find that there was a basis for replication. You don't get it, do you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21956	I really think it's necessary just to specify one term. Mr. Djelic will understand how right I am. You deliberately replace the terms "savings" and "investor". Investment funds are not savings and they are not savings, they are investors in investment funds, which expect 10 per cent and more. Savings should be promoted... Even investment funds claim to be run by bankers and pension funds against them. If it were someone else, I'd say it's ignorance, but you're very conscious, promoting savings, in fact, replacing the term "investor" with the term "savings".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21957	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21958	In short, investment is a form of savings; you have from a macroeconomy, and it's not very complicated, four or five large categories. We can say that you are right that various forms of savings must be accessible and very well explained for different categories of our population. Of course, this crisis has somewhat disrupted the normal curve between yield and risk. By the nature of things, you're expected to make a bigger contribution than what's more risky. It is very important that Serbia, it can be said, was ahead of the transition countries, because from the very beginning, it has been very careful to pursue and punish and make sure that no market participant promises what is not to be maintained. There were many ugly examples in countries in transition, where investment funds guaranteed offerings and thus attracted investors, which are one form of savings, who expected that money, which they needed for their families, to invest in something that is certain... For example, today in Serbia, you have a state guarantee for your stake in the bank up to 50,000 euros and therefore should not be allowed at all, nor is anyone allowed in Serbia to guarantee any form of contribution from any investment in securities of value, because no one can guarantee it. Not to get into the details, there's something possible through the option contracts, but, hand to heart, this crisis has shown that these optional contracts don't stand when there's system disorders, like we saw since July last year, so everyone has to consider these possibilities. All we can say is that this change of law allows one segment, not the whole... I would repeat, for a long time it will be a small part of the way of funding our economy, but at the same time, a new form, a saving class that can and should be opened to those professional investors who are informed of the risks that exist, and also to our citizens who have available resources and who are fully aware of the risks and want to invest in securities of value through these forms. So much and hopefully we'll have a lot of opportunities to talk about these things even more often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21959	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21960	I'll be very brief in my replica, since Mr. Vice President mentioned me personally and what I said. I'll just remind him that before the Fari Islands game he was in parliament and that at that time he very freneticly invited us to Europe, by the New Year there will be a Schengen visa. There's another game again tonight, and we've got a similar frenetic call to Europe, and it's all happening over and over again. He doesn't have to answer me, but he might wonder why the elections in the EU have just won the national parties and national forces. The European Union is beginning to think differently, and Mr Djelic, who has both private and professional contacts with Europe, knows why this is happening there. Secondly, I have seen here very often about all these laws repeating the issue, that is, the problem of the crisis that we are in, and no one is arguing that we are in a serious economic crisis, in which, ultimately, the world is in. Now that crisis is, I'm afraid, an excuse for a lot of things. Two weeks ago in the media, I saw Minister Dinkic, who said we were just on our way out of the crisis, so now I don't get it. Two weeks ago, I was convinced that we got out of the crisis, I hope that's an exact statement. Or maybe in the government ministers and vice presidents don't talk? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21961	Thank you. The word is Mr. Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21962	Ladies and gentlemen, in my discussion, I will only talk about one law. I think that in this set of laws, this law is the most important in its essence and form, for the purpose of adoption; at this point, it is very important what kind of law we are going to adopt. The Serbian Radical Party has come seriously to this legislative project. I'm sorry that the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development are leaving because of certain suggestions that I have as rapporteur on behalf of the SRS. It is vital, important, fundamental changes to this law that we have tried to install through amendments, but the very essence and form of this law are very bad and it is difficult to change it fundamentally because much of what should have been covered by other legislation is incorporated into this law. What exactly is this about? The Treaty establishing the EU has systematically resolved the basic elements of state aid. He is essentially asking, and we had to install it in this legal project, two things: firstly, state aid, as a basic category of basic species, the way in which state aid is granted and state aid users, and special (or even this) legislation should regulate the control of this state aid. First of all, we had to make a strategy to process the separation and division of state aid. Within that strategy, the bill promoter had to identify the objectives to be achieved through the allocation of funds through state aid; then, types of state aid; conditions of state aid; state aid providers; what is specifically set out by the national programme of the Republic of Serbia, what regions stand out (in this case I mean autonomous provinces) and what local authorities single out. In addition, this national strategy had to contain an annual state aid programme, which will be verified in this House through the budget or through certain funds. We have the Development Fund, and the Development Fund is alimony of certain funds that represent state aid. In addition, an annual financial allocation programme must be established for state aid; then, sanctions for non-compliance with all the elements provided for in the grant of State aid, etc. So all of this had to be an integral part of the national strategy for the separation and division of state aid, which represents one continent. State aid control must be covered by a special law, or it should be an integral part of this law on state aid, but we are here "strewn" both; these things are intertwined in the law itself, we are talking about control, we are talking about state aid types. What did we get from the promoter? The promoter is talking about investment in the economy, social investment (meaning population), investments due to natural disasters, in order to eliminate the damage caused by natural disasters, then investments due to serious economic disorders, investments in the protection of cultural heritage, etc. At least we're talking about investment and state aid going into the area of economy. Article 1 The bill said that this law regulates the general conditions and procedures for the control of state aid in order to protect free competition in the market by applying the principle of market economy and fostering economic development, ensuring transparency in the granting of state aid, as well as the implementation of commitments undertaken under the concluded international contracts, which contain State aid provisions. No provision of the law speaks of how free competition on the market, or any provision, is violated. What does that mean? We'll leave it to the commission, who will assess it on their own when there's a distortion of free competition on the market. We're not gonna let that happen. Furthermore, Article 1(2) states: “The provisions of this law do not apply to primary agricultural production and fisheries. ” In the amendments submitted by the Government on a proposal for this law (have a total of nine), it itself carried out a correction, an amendment, and it says – Article 2(2) amends the provision of the Bill and reads: "The provisions of this law do not apply to agricultural products and fishery products". The question arises whether the separation for agriculture and fisheries is considered State aid or not? Is there a control of state aid, as you say, or the Government, in this amendment, for agricultural products and fishery products? You've replaced the thesis. Issuing and investing through the agricultural budget in the area of agriculture and fisheries is state aid. According to European legislation and the Treaty on the formation of the European Community, no control is carried out, the state can single out as much as it can provide for material and financial opportunities. Article 88 of the Treaty provides for what does not fall under State aid. There's got to be state aid here, and we need to be in control. Why? Because of political volunteering, because of politicians who are in power and who stand out. Where do they stand out? They stand out in their midst. There is no strategy, there is no program, but we have allowed, that is, they have taken on themselves to share what they think they should share. What is mentioned in Article 2(1), where you define state aid, is absolutely not in line with the definition used in the EU. Let me just say that that task force that was formed in 2004 gave a far better definition of state aid and you had to install it here. In point 2), when you define a state aider, you had to tell what would single out the central government through the budget and through the funds, and what would separate the autonomous province and local self-government. You have to limit it. Political volunteering and volunteering is so strong today in Serbia that local powers do whatever they want – today they pave, tomorrow they give, the day after tomorrow they take away, etc. This must be resolved by law, but by law on state aid control, which has specific powers and competences and sanctions for those who abuse everything provided for in the law. In Article 3. The bill of law states that State aid granted in any form, which violates or threatens to distort competition on the market, unless otherwise prescribed by this law, or which is contrary to the concluded international contracts, is not allowed. What is the meaning of the legal provision “that violates or threatens to disrupt competition on the market”? How do you determine that? What are the elements of the distortion of competition in the market, and free competitions, which can lead to market disturbances? Vocabulary, linguistically, this must be processed, shown through the basic elements, because otherwise, the commission will do what it considers to be the moment. In another situation, they'll solve it the other way. Furthermore, why do you mention here – permitted state aid? In accordance with Article 88 of the Treaty on the The Treaty establishing the European Community is said to be set aside for natural persons, for citizens, for people with disabilities, etc. does not belong to state aid. Why is it allowed? Why isn't it allowed? That's where you need to be clear. There is no need to regulate it in the state aid control law; it is regulated by other regulations. But if you'd gone into a complex state aid law, then yes. This is how you said in an extended sentence in Article 2: “Allomented state aid is social assistance, which is granted to individual consumers without discrimination over the origin of goods, i.e. products that make for concrete assistance. “ Then you put in there a provision regarding the granting of aid because of the damage caused by natural disasters or other emergency situations. When you define a state institution to deal with state aid control, you've defined yourself as a state aid control committee. I think it's a good solution from the control point of view, but it's not a good solution to who makes that commission. The Commission shall be composed of representatives of the executive authority who are the bearers of the strategy, of the establishment of the situation, of the resolution of the situation, of the funds, of the preparation of all financial plans by the Republic authorities and of the various other state bodies, which are in the function of executing all that they are doing – this is a strict conflict of interest. The Serbian Radical Party proposed the following – that state control in granting state aid be carried out by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Provision of Article 98 The Constitution gives authority to the Assembly to exercise control over the executive authority. It is a division of the government, when the representative body, in this case the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, controls the execution of all procedures and actions by the executive authority. There is no control when those who participate in all actions are ultimately in control. There's no control, it's a conflict of interest. You've got to fix that. This is an inadequate solution. Why did the European Union set up a special European Commission to exercise control? That's exactly why. It's a neutral, special body that controls. It cannot be controlled by a representative of the ministry who has participated in the creation of all procedures. The Serbian Radical Party has deleted all provisions relating to the state aid control commission. As such, it is unacceptable for us. Surely, the Constitutional Court will declare that it is contrary to the Constitution, as you have conjecture it with this bill. When I talk about control, we are witnessing daily abuses of the executive authorities both in determining the amount of funds for state aid and in the system of placements of those funds. In particular, it was present during 2008 because of the economic and financial crisis. I feel the same way this year. We know what problems the agrarian budget has in providing adequate resources. The question of legality is raised, given the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, including the Budget Law, when we do not carry out certain commitments according to the budget that we had to implement in 2008, so we are now implementing them and we will implement them by the end of the year. This violates the basic principle of the budget, which is the annuality of the budget. All that is beyond that must be specifically understood and supported by appropriate decisions, including legal regulations and amendments, which must come to this congregation. This violates the provisions of the Budgetary System Act and the Budget Law, but who takes care of it. When we talk about types of state aid, you don't mention them here; it's meant to be state aid in the area of economy. The bill promoter missed, in any case, in the provisions, because he mentioned in two or three members investing in the economy through state aid. We have in practice, the government has come out with three programmes of measures to combat the economic and financial crisis. It's all part of state aid, but you had to install it into this regulation. You had to install, you had to determine the conditions under which this aid would be granted. You had to install a system of return and help, because not everything was given humanitarianally or irrevocably, there are also feedback, but you have to install it through the law. You didn't install that. That's why the law is incomplete and that's why you have to build it, you have to pull it back. It's best if you pull it back. Especially what I said – state aid, especially state aid control. Don't mix it, you've mixed it up, etc. In five members you have collected everything that should be one complex matter that applies in the first part, if you go to one law, state aid law, in terms, way, kind, and then after that comes state aid control. We, in practice, have, as regards the type of state aid, subsidies, we have preferential loans, we have state guarantees, we have tax and customs exemptions and exemptions, we have the purchase of repromation with certain benefits (in particular it was present earlier, under the Transport Tax Act), we have various stimulating measures for buying agricultural products due to disparity, etc., other incentive measures. What is, in my opinion, very significant, where the state does not take account, does nothing, is particularly current with this government, it is the ownership structure in public enterprises and banks, insurance houses etc. There's absolutely nothing you're doing. There's your gold reserves. You've tried now through an amendment to the profit bill to transfer all profits to the budget. But what's going on? Public enterprises are knowingly entering the loss, without any consequences. Look what happened to NIS. The banks have a similar situation. Loss – long-term gain. Why? They're going through without any sanctions. The government of the sea, or you must force banks to make rehabilitation programs, cannot go from loss to loss from year to year. On the basis of the actions it has in these banks, the state must benefit. It could be a state policy, it could be state aid, not to kill dividends, but it has to be designed by law, as a form of relief, fiscal relief. Losers don't pay, but they can't be losers year after year, especially in the banking sector. You've consciously brought banks and other financial institutions into a position that I can't do better than they do business, but don't do anything to correct all those failures... (President: Time. Bring the end, finish the sentence. I'll turn myself in later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21963	The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21964	Madam Chairman, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the list For the European Serbia-Serbian Renewal Movement, I will say that for the first time since World War II in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the law on state aid control is a law. We have survived many systems, periods in which neither the national representatives nor anyone else should have asked those who decided on public finances where the aid went, on which basis it went, whether it was used on purpose. I think the legislator's intention is good. I've also looked at the amendments, and there are very interesting amendments. I haven't seen the evil intentions of any amendment and it seems to me that there will probably be room for some of them to accept. For us from the list For Europe's Serbia, it is interesting to establish total control of public finances. This is one of the segments in that public finance control. Our citizens who had the opportunity to live in countries that were arranged the way the list For Europe's Serbia wants Serbia to be arranged have always told us that these are serious states and that every dinar is being taken care of there, that every dinar is being controlled. I think this law will be a good basis for state aid control. Objections that this law does not apply to farmers, that they are discriminated against, does not stand, because of the fact that other laws, regulations and decisions of the Ministry of Agriculture, and we almost had in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, regulates the way and forms of assistance to agricultural producers, which the SPO is extremely interested in. What seems most important to me – many examples of misuse of state aid have been behind us for decades – with public disclosure of data on the spending of state aid everyone in local areas has examples of abuse of state aid will be able to intervene. It is certain that in the future we will face numerous abuses, but what is interesting for us, for the list of ZES, is that we MPs from that list will give full support to this legal solution. The second law, which is truly extraordinary, is fully European, a law that fully goes to the order of damaged persons, introduces the full order into one very important sector, into the insurance sector, or additionally introduces order, because with previous laws, with every law and amendments and additions to the insurance law, the order was getting better and better. The owner of a private insurance company was told, after a few months, that it was only then that he realized that it was in the best interest of insurance organisations. If there is a magnetic resonance in medicine that can show the state of our health at any moment, then the way financial control is established, but seriously, by the NBS both in the public interest and in the interest of damaged persons, and in the interest of insurance companies, because for every adverse event you have to reserve damage. At any moment, it is known whether you are above or below the line, at any moment you know how much damage you have and can be estimated how many potentially harmful events that have occurred and have not been reported, the insurance company can predict, and thus separate the reserve funds, which must not be used for any other purpose. This insurance law is in many ways truly remarkable. We from the Serbian Renewal Movement do not belong to Eurofanatics. We are the only right-wing political organization that is a European commitment. We seem to have been absolutely Eurorealists with all the legal proposals, including these. I'll try to make concrete legal provisions that, I say, are extraordinary... It seems to me that I will commend the entire team working on making this bill for the fact that, after an extraordinary public debate, many suggestions have been accepted, and that is precisely the suggestions of those who are dealing with insurance and who are living, daily encountering problems arising from insurance business. Why is this law, first of all, in the interest of damaged faces? First, because of the fact that many times in life, damaged persons have been asked if they have the right when a harmful event occurs to compensate for the damage caused by the insurance policy with which they have concluded a mandatory insurance policy for third party damages. The previous legal solutions did not allow this, but the damaged person had to seek compensation from the pest or its insurance company. This law extends the rights of damaged persons and provides for the possibility that an insurance company that is not an insurance undertaking, whose insurance undertaking is not responsible for the damage, can collect damage from it, and then replace it in a regressive procedure from the pests. Secondly, in Serbia today, we are witnessing total disparity in terms of the criteria for compensation for material and immaterial damage. Many countries in the environment have different ways of regulating criteria that would be quite clear and that would, in any case, greatly assist insurance companies and damaged persons, as well as courts in the case of a court dispute. It seems to me that the solution provided for in this law is the most similar solution the Republic of Macedonia has, because the government has taken the obligation to bring closer to its decision the criteria for compensation for material and immaterial damages, as well as their maximum amounts. This is very important because of the fact that there have been numerous abuses, because in everyday practice a damaged person with one and the same physical injury, the same qualification of the same injury, the same consequences of injury in the north of our country gets a significantly higher percentage of physical damage, disability or reduction of general life activities compared to, say, southern Serbia. Therefore, in this case, if we are talking about compensation for damages on persons, criteria will need to include, above all, artificial judicial medicine and their associations, then, judicial and medical committees, the Association of Doctors of Serbia, in order for criteria to be unique to the territory of Serbia as a whole. If this law is prescribed and the highest amount of immaterial damage, let's say, for mental suffering due to the death of a close person, it's something that will make it completely easier for courts to work, because we won't again have the influence of local lawyers and local lobbies to determine the height of the damage. Secondly, this law will save many expenses and damaged persons will be spared from harassment. The number of court proceedings will be reduced, as the law stipulates that a damaged person is to be contacted by the insurance company within a certain time limit, before the court proceedings are initiated, with complete documentation. The insurance company must respond to the request within a specified time limit. Believe me, in practice, it has often happened that the insurance company offered to pay off the undeniable part of the damage, and that the damaged person would not receive it. There is now an obligation to receive the payment of the undeniable part of the damage, of course, with the detention of his right to seek and judicial protection if he considers that the compensation is not adequate for the rest of the damage. There was also abuse by insurance companies because of the fact that they did not want to pay even the undeniable part of the damage. With regard to the criteria for compensation for material damage, there are several associations of judicial experts that have completely different criteria for compensation of material damage. That, in any case, confuses insurance workers and damaged persons, court and court. If the government prescribes clear criteria for compensation for material damage, it will make it easier for everyone to work. Secondly, the guarantee fund has so far been stationed at the Association of Insurance Organisations of Yugoslavia and has served to pay for the damage caused by an unknown vehicle or vehicles that have no insurance coverage. Now the guarantee fund is treated as a special legal person. His role, authority, rights, obligations are clearly defined. What's particularly interesting to us, is that such regulation will again protect damaged persons, that they will not wait to end bankruptcy proceedings, as it has been, that lasts for several years. Imagine a damaged person who has both material and large immaterial damages, who applies for damages or sues the insurance company, she goes bankrupt, and the court makes a decision (so before) that damage compensation can be achieved only after the bankruptcy procedure can be completed, which may take years. That's why this solution is extraordinary. As for so-called international damages, these are damages caused by a vehicle of foreign registration in our country or our vehicle abroad, various combinations may be possible. This law fully goes to the hands of damaged persons and provides them with a wide range of opportunities from whom all and by what procedure can charge damage. It seems to me that the obligation for damaged persons to be treated by insurance organisations prior to the initiation of the proceedings, or insurance companies, will reduce the number of court proceedings. By doing so, damaged persons won't have to pay court fees, lawyers, they'll be more likely to claim damages. Also, this law weighs and states insurance companies that within a very short period of time following the submission of the damage claim and the documentation of the damages. As for the bonus-malus system, of those who have experience with the countries that we are now editing long before us, those who live in EU countries, we have heard the most common stories and experiences related to persons who belong to so-called. risk categories; these are persons who, for example, over one year make more car accidents. So far, those individuals have had the same status as persons who, for example, have never committed a car accident in 50 years of driving. They paid the same insurance premium and were thus rewarded for their haughtiness and caution because they were bad drivers. On the other hand, persons who were excellent and safe drivers were thus punished for being safe in traffic. Believe it was in practice that one person made seven-eight car accidents over one year, to do damages measured in hundreds of thousands of euros, to take several human lives, and to conclude next year the insurance policy for which he paid a premium of, say, the current four, five or six thousand dinars. So far, we have heard that in the European Union countries, the person, as a risky person, has an obligation to pay several thousand euros in insurance premiums. I don't know whether the government will establish its criteria any closer to the rules in which bad drivers will be sanctioned, but what's for sure, these will be sanctioned, pay much greater insurance premiums than safe drivers, as well as safe drivers will have a bonus, or discount due to the fact that they are safe to drive their vehicle and do no material or immaterial damage to anyone. It is also good that the person who entered the motor vehicle whose use of the damage caused, who knew that the vehicle was illegally withdrawn, has no right to compensation for damages. Car theft is everywhere, and in the modern world it is one of the most present forms of organized crime. We had examples in practice that the person who stole the vehicle and was an accomplice to the robbery, since most often thieves drive at high speed, experience a car accident and appear with a claim for damages. This law, of course, does not provide such a right to these persons and that is something that is a completely European solution. This is where the experiences from our recent past were mentioned. In the 1990s, the mandatory insurance law allowed founding capital to be established by insurance companies, for example, only ten, twelve or fifteen thousand dollars. These provisions have been amended long ago, but it is also good that the insurance limit, the insurance company's liability, is increased by this law. This means, if more people are injured or killed in an accident, that insurance companies' obligations to pay for one harmful event will now be 1m euros, and for material damage of 200,000 euros. So far, there have been 100,000 or 200,000 euros, and that amount has doubled in car accidents where more people have been injured. This is also something that's good. So damaged faces will be able to fully achieve material satisfaction due to the damage suffered. Also, there were doubts, as there were different solutions to PIO, health insurance, disability insurance, regarding the rights of regression towards insurance companies in situations where their costs were caused by a car accident. This law very elegantly and precisely regulates it, and that is something that is good, because in court practice and in life there have been many concerns. I'm someone with a lot of experience working in an insurance organization. In order to improve this law, which is remarkable, it seems to me that it is primarily about some technical corrections, I have submitted several amendments, so in the debate in particular I will use my right to point out once again to the citizens of Serbia how good this law is, how fair the law is. This is one of the laws that we from the list of ZES are completely satisfied with and we believe they will really give the effects we expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21965	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. Mr. Nikola Savic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering proposals for three laws: state aid control law, investment funds law and mandatory traffic insurance law. We are considering all three laws in the principle debate, although I am not 100% sure that the business conditions are met, because yet, each of these laws has its specificities and if we were to ask, we can find more differences, according to which we could not place them in a joint search. But since that's the case, I'm going to try to say a few things about each of these laws, because every one is equally important. However, I'm going to say more about the mandatory traffic insurance law, because it is the law that concerns all our citizens in the most direct way. But, let's get this straight, first of this state aid control law. I have to say it's nice that the government was thinking about some kind of help, some kind of giving, but that's the only thing that's nice about this law, and that's where it ends. Simply, this law is not defined enough, even in the very reasoning of the law, it is said that, according to European criteria, there is no strict and clear definition of this aid. The means to implement this law should be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The application of this law will begin as of September, and we know well that there are no funds in the budget for any of the most important items, and by September, I hope not, I would like that not to be the case, but I suppose there will be even more problems when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If this law is adopted in this form, and the budget, as predicted, is its basic source of funding, Madam Minister, you will have to rebalance the budget every month. When it comes to state aid, the first association of our citizens is the agriculture which the legislator rules out in this law already in the first article, through one unmistakable explanation, regardless of the natural disasters condition that aid is given. Article 2 of this law provides that the beneficiary of state aid can be any natural person, and the individual consumer is also mentioned. To me, I must admit, it's not very clear whether it means that every citizen will be able to use it. Because most of our citizens are in crisis because of credits, debts and general financial crises, and we know that this financial crisis is one elemental accident. Accordingly, I think all citizens could fall under that notion - state aid users. The question arises, why is the formation of another government agency, which in this law is not called an agency, but a commission, when we know that the Ministry of Finance is behind all of this, and the Ministry of Finance is practically doing these jobs? This law provides that members of the commission should possess the necessary expertise in the area of state aid. I want to ask you what is the educational institution in this country where the necessary expertise in the field of state aid is obtained? I also want to ask you which of the persons who give such professional assistance to those who need it? As I said before, the law says that the budget provides funds, and we know that there is a crisis and there is no such funds in the budget. Furthermore, the law says that the government provides space, and we know from experience that there are problems there too; we only remember the case of the State Auditing Institution. If they are users of this assistance and non-profit organisations and institutions, this means that private schools and private universities can use such assistance. On the other hand, recently, the Law on the Budget of State Schools and State Colleges has made a commitment that 40% of the funds made by their own actions return to the Republic of Serbia's budget. There is another thing that appears in this law that is not the usual right, which is that some of its provisions are applied before the law itself enters into force. My colleague Buha spoke more about this law; I hope that later, if there is time, he will say more about it. I want to move on to another law, or the next law from this set of laws, which is the Investment Funds Act. The amendments and additions to this Investment Funds Act were obviously written by the present minister, i.e. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mr Ilic, because practically these changes are identical to what he said and what he was talking about at the Finance Committee in April of the month here in the Serbian Parliament. When it comes to the very notion of investment funds and that term, Serbian citizens are not familiar with it enough, but the bottom line is that these funds are tied to businessmen from our country whose companies are registered in the Canary and some other islands. This investment fund law was introduced in 2006, to the insistence of party G 17 plus, where the justification was – all countries in the environment have this law and it is time for the state of Serbia to pass one such law. We passed that law and we see, not long after that, we move on to his alterations and additions. I'm not even surprised that we're going to go into his changes and additions, because the law is written as if it's going to be applied in an extremely regulated state, not in the state of Serbia, and it's going to be applied in ideal economic conditions. When the law is written, all the facts must be taken into account, all the elements. We see that the law that was written at the time is no longer worth it. Let's go through the members of this law. Let's start with Article 1 that predicts directly, or through connected persons, gaining up to 20% of the value of the fund's assets. We have a paradoxical situation here: instead of making the most of our citizens invest their resources in these funds, because these funds represent this, we are now going in reverse – we are allowing fewer people to have control over these funds, in this case 20%, and through the control of these funds have an impact on overall economic developments and economic flows in Serbia. If this member has already been changed with the aim of making the rich even richer, why didn't you make sure that those poorer, ordinary citizens who possibly have funds in these funds can withdraw their funds in the bankruptcy of these funds, or that the state guarantees them that, as is the case with banks? We know, we had a turn recently and these laws, that the state, when it comes to banks, guarantees citizens up to a certain amount. However, here the legislator did not deliberately remember to protect small investors. This law is also planned, or written with a story that investment in the investment fund is one good thing, that it is much more favourable, that investors have and draw more profit than if they invested in banks, but good. Let's move on. Article 2(1) and (2) of this Act allows a portfolio manager, who is usually a foreigner, to manage several funds. I want to remind you that the global crisis has made, as I would call it, "financial democracy", meaning, various brokers, portfolio managers, authorized dealers and others, and we allow them to gamble with other, ordinary citizens' money, but good. Let's move on. Article 3 does not foresee almost any sanctions for the management of the fund and the responsible person in the fund. On the other hand, amendments to Articles 8, 9 and 16 create an environment where, for example, some anonymouss can make a lot of money very quickly and quickly. This is seen from deadlines that are drastically reduced and allow the capital to be transferred to another place in no time and washed. How come we're, say, down from 30 to eight days? Indeed, at least when it comes to deadlines, and deadlines are about all the laws, this thing is unusual. Furthermore, Articles 9, 10 and 11 give much greater authority to fund administrations, instead of talking about their responsibility for the things they are in charge of, because they are in fact in possession of other people's resources. The amendments to the law in this sense also apply to the so-called open funds, which collect and fund anonymous investors. The Securities Commission of these changes creates an environment similar to what exists in the banking system, where foreign bankers are simply given an ambience that they do not have in their own countries. If so, we heard today from this room – foreign banks have drawn huge money, huge profits from this country, that is, from this people. I wonder why the legislator so cares about the fate of investment funds, when the risk is an integral part of their business? You know, there's no investment without risk. A risk-free investment would be about the same as, say, sports or some sports encounter without the possibility of defeat. There can be both this and that result at the game, and you're trying to practically protect the administrations of these investment funds with this law. Article 23 sets out provisions whose application began prior to the entry into force of the law itself. Some provisions have been applied since March 28th, but I've already talked about it. What's this about? Here, as always, the legislator calls for general interest. This general interest is a stretching concept and I think it's being misused in this sense. As time goes by, it's three laws, and I said that I would focus most of my exposure on traffic insurance law, it's time to move on to this law. Of course, as I said, this is a very important law, I am talking about the mandatory traffic insurance law, because in the most direct way it concerns all citizens of Serbia. However, like all your laws and this law, there are many indeterminations and provisions that cannot be applied in real life. This law should be compatible with the Obligation Insurance Act in Transport, but if these two laws are looked at and compared, it can be seen immediately in many things that these two laws are in a certain dissension. This is just one of the shortcomings of this law. I will now try to count in general some more of the shortcomings of this law, and later, through the analysis of the members of this law, I will point to concrete shortcomings. We are here from the speakers before me, Mr. Chikiriz, who is the authorised representative of the Group for European Serbia, meaning the ruling majority, heard praises about this law. Of course, since he's saying he's coming from that branch, it's his job, I don't doubt he knows the matter, but my mission as an opposition MP is to point out what's wrong with this law. First of all, I don't see why this law on compulsory insurance in traffic is in such a hurry, when we know, and it is in the law, that one third of this law, and the essential members relating to insurance, will not be able to be applied until Serbia enters the EU, and no one knows when it will be. What is the fundamental lack of this law? The lack of this law, you can see when you read the law a little bit better, is that here you prepare the ground for foreign insurance companies – just like you did with the banks. So, clean preparation for foreign insurance companies. This law and the application of this law will inevitably lead to the collection of mandatory insurance, and we know what that means at the time of this general financial crisis for our citizens. But someone will benefit from this; they will, as I said, have strangers, for whom you prepare the terrain to come and win space in this area. So, this government doesn't know how to do anything, but it hits the driver's pocket right now. That's the easiest. The easiest thing to do is hit the driver's pocket. The driver's pocket is hit and when it comes to mandatory social security and, we saw today, when it comes to the price of gasoline, because we know that the price of gasoline in Serbia is currently higher than in any country in our environment. I understand that you have problems with the budget, with the budget filling, but this is the easiest way, everyone can do it, and the government needs to think and look for new ways, some new measures and some new things to fill the budget, not just in the driver's pocket, excises, etc. Next, what is the lack of this law? All insurance-related jobs are related to insurance companies -- the National Bank of Serbia. It's completely out of the profession and professional association of this business; it means there's no automotive alliances, associations, engineers' associations, technicians' associations. Like I said, here's just the goal of getting someone extra profit out of all this. So it's all in the hands of bankers and financial powers, and they're responsible for this financial crisis. I highly doubt it, in fact, I'm quite certain that ordinary citizens of this law will not benefit at all. Next, I have to say something about a guarantee fund, which is a special story of this law. The guarantee fund is nothing but another 150 agencies (or about 150), as much as this government has. However, I'll talk about the guarantee fund later, although he is one of the essential things in this law. Let's go through this law a little bit. We'll start with his first member talking about the types of mandatory insurance. There's no mention of rail and rail traffic here, and we know that rail traffic is the oldest and still extremely represented type of traffic. In Article 3 of the definition of a car accident is not in line with the Traffic Safety Act, which I initially pointed out, so there is a certain discrepancy between these two laws. I will remind you, mentioned law, the Transport Safety Act provides for the fulfilment of the following conditions for the occurrence of a car accident as a traffic incident: 1) at least one vehicle in motion, 2) causing certain material damage and 3) injury to the person as a participant in a car accident. However, in this law of yours these conditions are not met, so it is not in accordance with the Traffic Safety Act. When it comes to this Article 3, there is again discrimination against rail traffic as if it were a newspaper, and everyone alive knows that the train is also a means of transport. I will remain on this Article 3, which is full of inaccuracies; it is said that "the territory on which the vehicle is normally located represents the territory of the European Union". Indeed, if this member is looked at, it can be concluded, let's say, that it is unusual when a vehicle is located in Serbia's territory. By further conclusion, we could come to the conclusion that we are an unusual people, not to use another and more difficult word. One of you may have gotten carried away and thinks Serbia is in the EU, but I also want to tell you: Serbia is not in the EU, when it will be, we don't know; however, in Serbia you can live well and can live better, you should just act differently, think more about these citizens, not just yourself and your own interests. Article 4 of this law does not cover railways again, and remember many train accidents on the railway. The latest example of a major tragedy was in Montenegro a few years ago, in Bioche. Practically, according to this law, so damaged or injured would not have the opportunity to exercise their right. Article 5 states, among other things, that I will quote: “The insurance company cannot refuse an offer... “ not to quote the whole article. I'm asking you, what if the carrier, let's say JAT, wants to be secured by an insurance company, which is the insurance company, that is, its management is aware that he doesn't have the possibility to compensate for any damage because JAT is, after all, one big carrier, one expensive company, and you're practically pushing him through this law, so he can't refuse the offer, he has to accept the offer? It's just that if someone doesn't have the economic ability to get into a certain job, it's normal that they won't do it, and you're making him do it. However, this may not be an accident. You are consciously creating opportunities for the collapse of the insurance company, as we have previously had the situation of the collapse of companies and other companies, and workers remain hungry. We've seen almost people in despair begin to cut their own fingers, and it wouldn't be surprising if there was an amputation of extremities and other organs. This is very important, which I do not want to skip: in these laws (I mean these three laws, which is the case with all your laws), a large number of foreign words and expressions are used which are not known enough to the professional public, let alone ordinary citizens, without these parties expressing themselves a little bit better and more in detail. On the other hand, the translation of certain provisions is not the best and most correct done. We'll give you an example right away. It's about Article 3 of Section 1 of point 8; it's about special drag rights, so it's about plural, not unity, as it says in the translation of your law. Since I started this topic, these laws meet expressions such as: portfolio manager, actuarial principles, bonus-malus system etc. I'm asking you, how many people in Serbia, and maybe even in this room, knows what a portfolio manager is, actuarial principles, a bonus-malus system? I'll remind you, for the sake of the public, not because of you, I know you know perfectly well what it is, say, an actor. Actuary is a court scribe who runs archival books. I understand the law is a matter of professional character. I also understand that the law and thing is a legal-science character, but I don't understand the intention of whoever writes this law better tell whoever translates this law, that there's no hearing that this law should serve everyone and that it's the best law that everyone understands. Imagine, I must say, that Branislav Nusic, in his works of the court scribe, called it an actuary! How much would his work be worth? Certainly not as much as it's worth now. Everyone knows, and even those who haven't read, for Peru's scribe from that department, but if he were an actor, then that would be completely different. However, you seem to have read neither Nusic nor anything but Harry Potter. When I get my hands on this, so I don't turn out to be giving a lecture here, I'm gonna have to use this time to read you Stefan Nemo's legacy, when it comes to his message and his legacy to the people about language. I quote: “Keep on the watch, my dear child, the tongue of the earth. The word can be lost as the city, as the earth, as the soul. And what is it, people, if he loses his tongue, his earth, his soul? Don't take someone else's word in your mouth. If you take someone else's word, you know you didn't win it, but you made a difference. It's better to lose the greatest, hardest city of your country than the smallest and most insignificant word of your tongue. The earth and states are not only conquered by swords, but also by languages. Know that the alien has conquered you so much and conquered how many words he has stolen from you and made his own. A people who lose their words cease to be a people. There's a disease that attacks both language and body. I remember such infections and the seas of tongues. It is most often on the edges of the people, on the hands of one nation with another, where the language of one nation is tarnished by the language of another people. Two nations can be and can be calm, two languages can never be reconciled. Two nations can live in the greatest peace and love, but their tongues can only war. Every time two languages meet, they mix, they're like two armies in battle to life and death. As long as one language and another language is heard in that battle, the fight is even. When one of them starts hearing better and more, he'll prevail. There's only one sound at last. The battle is over. There are no people after the lost language. Know that this battle between languages does not last for a day or two, as a battle between armies, not a year or two, as a war between nations, but a century or two, and that is as small a measure of time as for a man for a moment or two. That's why it's better to lose all battles and wars than to lose your tongue. After the lost wars remain the people, after the lost language there is no people. The tongue is harder than any misery. Where our word echoes, where more verbs, where even as an old goldsmith turns our word, know that it's still our country, no matter who rules it. The emperors change, the states fail, and the language and the people are the ones who stay, so the part of the land and the people will be taken back to their tongues and their native people. “ A quote has been completed. Maybe I'm a little tired of you. I really think it's a good idea to keep this in mind. After this, I would ask you to keep an eye on when you translate laws, when you write laws, to have as many Serbian concepts as possible, or as few foreign terms as possible in those laws. If it's necessary somewhere (of course, we know that modern trends are moving towards it), that it is, at least put an explanation in the laws, because, believe me, there are a lot of people who meet the laws and literally don't know what they mean. I hope you don't sell your tongue, because that would be the worst privatisation you've ever had. Okay, let's move on, to the law; let's go to Article 8 - from his second position is unclear who and when he owns a European traffic accident report. Also interesting is Article 10, which speaks of data collected from insurance companies. In this article, the legal solution to data collection is the most serious abuse of personal data. Here, in Article 10, it does not stand on whose request anyone needs, even if it is the insurance company, to provide information on a particular person. Here, let's say, someone comes out of nowhere, and according to this law, they can look for information about a person and whoever owns this data is obliged to give it to him. I simply want to remind you that there is a law on the protection of personal data and that, no matter how much they use, there must still be no choice, because the abuse of personal data is present today and we have many examples of it. Here, I come from Nis and I will remind you only – in contact with a single television program a viewer, a citizen and set an example that a man who has been dead for ten years regularly receives court notices for incorrect parking, and this man had no driver's license while he was alive and never owned a car. I supported this with one example. With this information provided for in Article 10, and I think Article 9 also treats this database, it still needs to be cautious. Next, Article 14. I think Article 14 should provide that vehicles for driver training should be treated as other vehicles in public traffic, because these vehicles are also registered for six months, as well as other vehicles for public transport. This article should also delete the obligation to impose the name of the insurance company, when it comes to a private vehicle, for example, a taxi vehicle. I don't think there's a need to necessarily highlight the name of an insurance company, because no one is obliged to advertise anyone for free. We're going to Article 15. As you wrote it, there may be some situations: let's say someone comes to the bus station, pays for a peron card, cell service, but doesn't travel. Since I'm a professor at a traffic school, I know that according to the curricula and the program of traffic organizations, people on buses and other stations are being treated as passengers. For example, someone, a parent, comes to escort their child on a trip, summer or winter trip, and that's common, and he, regardless of being a passenger, should be treated as a traffic participant. So this is how you deny certain rights. All the laws you write are designed to leave a lot of space and countless possibilities for manipulation. The value of each law is, above all, in its accuracy, and everything that is not clearly defined can lead to different interpretations and, of course, reduces the value of that law. As for Article 21 of this Law, his first attitude does not make it clear who is damaged and who has done the damage. I really ask you, there are amendments there, to consider it and to define it in a better and more precise way. Furthermore, this same article speaks of something that is completely unusual, which is that the transport of nuclear material is carried out by auto-responsibility vehicles. We know, and that's what the law says, that vehicles that are responsible for auto responsibility are usually passenger vehicles. If the legislator puts this into law, then the question is, does he have any knowledge that nuclear material is being transmitted to these vehicles? If there is no such knowledge, or if there are, it does not matter, then it is practically a matter of traffic security. Article 23 of this law provides for an excessively short period of three days to inform the responsible insurance company of a car accident. Practice shows that this deadline is too short. We know that the owner of a motor vehicle cannot exercise any right without the record of insight, he can't, and often it happens that that record doesn't arrive or be late, especially in cases where there are fewer environments or when the vehicle was operated by a person who didn't own that vehicle, so I think that this deadline should be extended and we have amended it and predicted it. In Article 29 paragraph 1 of point 2) of the proposed formulation, it cannot be clearly concluded whether the insurance rights are excluded because the driver did not have a driving licence with him or because he did not pass the motor vehicle management test at all. This same article says: “... if the driver has caused the damage on purpose.’ I really don't think anything like this can and can't stand in the law. For cases like this, there's professional skill, there's doctors, there's psychiatrists, here's Mrs. Slavica, traffic engineers, traffic police, witnesses, etc. It must first be professionally determined whether any damage has been done on purpose, so when it is established, when experts find that any damage has been done on purpose, then it can be handled in accordance with that fact. Article 41 should contain provisions which will be closely referred to damages to the exercise of insurance rights when they suffer damage, in particular when they suffer damage from a vehicle by registration. Since the weather is coming to an end, and these viewers will be watching early, around 3:00, who's awake, I'm going to hurry up a little bit. In Article 42, the legislator does not take into account the market value of the vehicle, so an absurd situation may occur that, for example, the premium of compulsory insurance is greater than the market value of the vehicle. Indeed, it stands in this law. Speaking of this mandatory insurance premium, in practice so far, it is related exclusively to motor vehicle volume and, I must say, precisely because of this fact that I have stated ahead does not reflect the real situation, and it is always handled by the owner of the vehicle, or by the one who pays, especially because we know that the average age of the vehicle in Serbia is 15 years. If the engine volume, for example, is 2000 cubic metres, it is not the same value of the vehicle which is the year 2009 and the year 1989. I see the minister is looking at me, I know what he's trying to say, but I have to say this for the public. Article 44 says that the sale of insurance companies’ policies can only be done by a person employed in that society. I don't think this was necessary in law. That would be about the same thing as saying in some law on trade – selling bread in a self-service can't be done by a city traffic driver. I don't think this formulation had to be found in the law, unlike some that were so far. I'm still in article 44. This member should be completely deleted, for another reason – because the text of this member does not correspond to the actual state. When it comes to insurance and technical checks, the situation in practice is completely the opposite of what you are predicting in this law. After the technical examinations most often, almost always, there are insurance companies, which give all possible logistics, provide space, even a real facility and all, but, of course, under one condition – condition them to sell their insurance policies. Now the matter of Article 44 needs to be resolved systematically, in a different way, so that what the law says is about what is in real life, or about the fact that it is. I have to mention article 49. It is said that if the damaged person does not find justice in the insurance company, he may seek it in court. It's not much advice, you haven't told him anything new. On the other hand, knowing how efficient our courts are, a certain number of damaged ones will certainly give up on everything and will say – it will cost me more costs than I will possibly collect. This law should therefore provide for certain sanctions for insurance companies if they carry out their legal obligations untimely. Of course, this would benefit the damaged citizens, and believe me, the insurance companies themselves would benefit, because by fulfilling their obligations in a timely manner, they would have a positive reputation for their clients. Article 55 suggests that it is not desirable to seek justice in court, as in this case the damages claim cannot be filed with the damage compensation bureau, which you also foresee in this law. Let's just say, there's a car crash, a damaged vehicle has been damaged, and he's got curses, insults, and what I know, from the one who damaged his vehicle, which, of course, is not unusual in our society and mentality. In that case, you can't go to court for causing mental pain, because it's more important to you material damage, and if you separate these two things, then you can't go to court again, because you can't sue twice for one car accident. That's why I think there's something to be done about this, because we've seen that some basics can be the case of a court case, and another subject of damages. If we were to deal with this member a little bit, it could all work out a better way. I'm not going to go into a lot of criminal provisions of this law, because I'm not saying anything is clear that it is your urgency that these criminal provisions are as great as possible, and yet they are inappropriate to the conditions and circumstances in which our citizens live. Through these criminal provisions you forgot that there is an economic crisis in the world and in Serbia, but well, what is there. At first, I said something about a guarantee fund. It says here in the law that the guarantee fund for its liabilities corresponds to its assets, but the law doesn't say at all how much the asset of the guarantee fund is and whether it even exists. It is important that the guarantee fund has a president and board members, to be appointed by the Government and it is important that they have a certain fee for their membership in the Management Board. Also, the law prescribes conditions to be met by the president and members of the board of directors, as well as by the director of the guarantee fund. The law stipulates that they are experts in the field of insurance, rights or economy. I agree with that, but I think we should add engineers and people to technical professions here, because these are also professions, professions that and how they deal with this and these people understand these things. The last thing, I end up with is Article 117, which speaks of the delayed application of certain legal provisions. I must quote: "Some of the provisions of this law will be applied from, and that: 1) Provisions. 6, 27, 33, 34, 36, 37 and 38, Article 42, Article 1, Article 1. 46th to 49th, Article 50(3) and Article 8th position, Article 51, and so on, "from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union". It'll apply, but no one knows when. 2) The provisions of Article 22, which, at the end of three years from the date of entry into force of this law, are also in force. This shows, if only a comparative analysis is made, that it can happen (only theoretically, in practice it will not be) to take effect after Serbia enters the EU, which does not make any sense. 3) Provisions of members of this and that - at the end of one year from the date of entry into force of this law; 4) provisions, not to quote all members, as of 1 January 2010; 5) provisions of Article 96 of the date of accession of Serbia's WTO. I'm going to end up with this, so give me some law in a normal state and every member of the law has come into force at a different time. I repeat what I said at the beginning, there was no need to rush with this law; only from this last thing I said it seemed to stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-10-0.u21967	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on state aid control, the draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act and the Proposal for a law on compulsory insurance in traffic. I thank Mrs. Secretary and her associates. I thank all MPs who actively participated in the work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 125 MPs are present, and in order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. There are already designated representatives of the parliamentary groups who want to request a notification in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure. First, Mr. Vladan Batic.
