ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18309	Madam Chairman, I'm reporting precisely for the reason that none of the motionaries are present. I don't think we can keep working on this very important agenda point without any of the promoters being there, and especially Minister Jeremic, who needs to be present here for this part of the agenda. I think we need a break until Mr. Jeremic gets here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18310	You are under obligation to call for a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You are right that the proposing representatives and invited must attend. All those invited will be informed whether they have sent an excuse or an explanation for why they are not here. On behalf of the promoter, we will be joined by the invited representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Do representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups want a word? The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18311	I don't want to waste time here right now, but Mrs. Comic, there are some basic preconditions for normal work and I ask you to meet these preconditions and allow MPs to do their job normally. Article 152. The Rules of Procedure – the procedure for ratification of an international contract or other agreement, the draft law on ratification of an international contract or other agreement contains the text of an international contract whose ratification is proposed. This is the point of the bill on the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel between citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Russian Federation. You are obliged to provide us with a proposing representative who will explain this item of the agenda. Otherwise, there's no need to come here at all, since the campaign is a savings campaign, why don't we cancel the Assembly! Let's not come here at all, each of us will deal with some other business, it'll be cheaper work, it'll save time, and that way we'll solve these pointless situations. Someone here has to represent a proposing, to explain this point to us on the agenda. Either we respect or we don't respect the Rules of Procedure. See how many empty seats there are for disrespecting the Rules of Procedure. Give us the respect of the Rules of Procedure and let the representatives of the Government come and explain this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that is our need.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18312	I ask the MPs to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not to repeat the already stated objection as a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since this is not permitted by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have to repeat the explanation. In the course of the debate, we will be joined by the State Secretary who has been invited, and if he does not appear, we expect an explanation, as in previous cases. It is not a business obligation to quote, but I agree with you that our established practice is to have a representative present at the session, to listen to the MPs and that MPs can get answers to questions that arise during the debate or whatever MPs want to ask. National MP Nenad Popovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18313	The President-in-Office, I am advocating Article 27 of the National Assembly to carry out the work provided for in the Constitution, but this is particularly important for the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This goes to Article 152 – the proposal for a law on ratification of an international contract or other agreement contains the text of an international contract, whose ratification is proposed, etc. You're telling us, and you warned me last time that I didn't respect the Rules of Procedure and you threatened to punish me. What is our way of protecting ourselves from your will, that you do not respect the Rules of Procedure? Is there a way, I'm not on the Administrative Board, I don't know the Rules of Procedure in detail, but is there any way that we can protect ourselves from your will to begin without a proposal? Someone needs to explain this proposal. This is an extremely important proposal. Maybe it's because they didn't come, they don't care. This is an extension of ignoring and disrespecting the congregation. The draft budget, which was the most important document, did not come to the prime minister and not all ministers came, and now no proposaler representative has come. I think this is really humiliating the assembly and insulting its dignity. I ask that you, as chairman, our chairman here, our colleague, do not violate the dignity of the Assembly by wanting to start a search without a proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18314	There's no damage to article 27. (loud disdain of MPs.) I'm taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. (Nenad Popovic, from the scene: Throw us out – let's go out. ) National MP Nenad Popovic throws away. Now I give you a warning. Then you will protest again to warn you of the respect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. To throw to the chairman or fellow Members of the National Assembly is forbidden, so I warn you not to do so. An explanation for the respect of Rule 27 has already been given twice, and I warn you not to repeat already the objection made to the violation of one of the members of the Rules of Procedure – as it is prohibited by the same provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which you are referring to. Minister Vuk Jeremic will provide you with an explanation and apology for why he is not present today, and the Secretary of State will join us during the debate that has just begun and will be able to listen to all your remarks, so that the application of Article 27 is ongoing. National MP Miroslav Markicevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18315	Dear Chairman, I'm calling on article 100 right now because I think you're in violation of article 100 as chairman. In Article 100, paragraph 1, says: “The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly. ” You've been doing it all seven-eight minutes. Do citizens who watch direct transmissions and all of us MPs, are we blind to the eyes – we see here that there are no representatives of the government, and you in violation of the Rules of Procedure continue the session of the National Assembly as if nothing was happening? You are announcing a written apology from Minister Jeremic. We will not and Serbian citizens expect no apologies from ministers, expect to come here to the National Assembly and account for their work, or to explain the legal regulations that are in their respective ministries. So stop the session, bring someone from the government and keep working culturally and nicely. It's the only thing that requires the opposition as far as I can tell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18316	People's MP, there's no damage to article 100. Please, if you would like to report and apply your right under Article 100, do so carefully by reading the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which you consider to have been violated during the procedure. A member of the 100th would have been injured if one of the MPs, who sought word for injury to the Rules of Procedure, had not received that word, which has not been the case so far during the procedure. I warn you that we do not abuse the right to answer the word asking to describe the injury and which member of the Rules of Procedure was created during the session immediately before you answer the word. Abuse of the Rules of Procedure is also the basis for speaking out, and I beg you not to do so. I note that in my first explanation, I have said that I agree with the protest of the MPs why we must ask that the proposing representative be there, but this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that we will receive explanations from the minister and during the session will be joined by the State Secretary at the Foreign Ministry, who currently has other obligations. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18317	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. You didn't understand me, and that's why I'm advertising article 101. Unlike other colleagues, I have very precisely cited a member of the Rules of Procedure who does not allow us to continue the debate before a representative of the legislator of the bill appears here to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. This is Article 152(2) – The proposal for a law on the ratification of an international contract or other agreement must be reasoned. Instead, you tell us that the Secretary of State will come here – which cannot speak in the Assembly, and that we will have a debate in the meantime, and that agreement only gives us this unmistakable photocopy, which can't even be read. What do we need to discuss? For example, who will answer me – what are the specific conditions of national security that allow, foreign signatories, or to deny the respect of this agreement? Russia is full of refugees from our judiciary – on what basis and in what way? We want to talk on that basis. So you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are clear and there must be a representative here. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. I reported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, pointed to a member, and you said – I violate the Rules of Procedure. There's no question of abuse. I don’t call on Article 27 — that’s what my colleagues used to do before me. I've called in accordance with Article 101. You didn't read me well. The Rules of Procedure do not allow you to continue this debate before a representative of the motion that must explain this agreement appears here. This isn't even an explanation. We can't even read this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18318	National MP, you cannot call for a violation of Rule 101, nor can you claim for yourself the right to a replica in relation to the explanations of the chairman, and you can ask for the already stated violation of the Rules of Procedure to be declared by the Assembly. I ask all MPs to read the Rules of Procedure carefully. The provision you have already quoted for the third time says the proposal must be reasoned – the proposal is reasoned. The interpretation that the interpretation must be oral is a matter of practice with which I have agreed, noting that I ask you not to abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, reading in the views of members something that is not written, and agreeing with the practice that the proposing representative must be here, with an explanation that the State Secretary will be present. Article 101, as well as Article 103, or Article 103, is, but the Article 101 to which you have called cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The reasons for the law were given in writing, and if it were not for the draft act, it would not be in the procedure during the session session of the National Assembly. National MP Nenad Popovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18319	Dear Chairman, I would like to point to the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 194 and 196. We speak here in a very cultural tone, very appropriate to this institution and what we demand is a minimum of what should be respected by the government, respecting at least a little of this assembly – but there seems to be no such thing. Article 194 says - The right and duty to represent the Government in the National Assembly means the right and duty to represent the Government, when considering all issues from its jurisdiction has the Prime Minister. Furthermore, the government determines members of the government who represent a particular issue on the agenda of the National Assembly, etc. Article 196 states – with the draft law, other regulations or general act or other material submitted to the National Assembly, the Government shall inform the National Assembly of its representatives or trustees for meetings of the Assembly and its committees. No matter how many threats you make, Madam Chairman, we will insist on our democratic right, on respecting the Rules of Procedure – that the proposing representative is required here to attend. There is no reason none of the government's representatives attend today's session. History has really shown that this has never happened. Please don't introduce any practice in this institution that exists long ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18320	None of the provisions quoted in Articles 194 and 196 have been violated. The government has informed you of this and this is respect for the views of members 194 and 196. who will be the representative. The government has sent an orderly act, and you abuse the Rules of Procedure, with the desire to say repeatedly an objection that I did not challenge you, which is that the motionary's representative should be present at the session, with the obligation and with the attitude of the MPs not to attend the session or to seek a break until that happens. It doesn't say anything in the Rules of Procedure, and it's my duty to warn you about it. National MPs Jovan Palalic, Zoran Nikolic, win during the explanation. This is prohibited by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Nikolic continues to throw and violate Article 104. This is prohibited by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as the discarding of places and rude and inappropriate behavior. My duty to warn you and to explain whether or not they have been broken. 194th and 196th quoted by MP Nenad Popovic. None of the provisions have been broken. The practice I'm talking about is the practice of having a representative present and that, without discussion, I agree with you and I explained that you will receive a notice from the minister, and the Secretary of State will attend. National MP Nenada Popovic, I ask that he no longer abuse the Rules of Procedure. It is clear, and as far as I'm concerned, that the wish of the MPs to control the government is justified. One way is this, but according to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to speak on behalf of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18321	I call on Article 104 to bring down the dignity of the Assembly, that's what you do and stop warning and threatening the MPs more. Your primary task is to protect the dignity of this House. When something comes to the agenda, then it's the obligation of whoever proposed that law to attend and defend it here. It is yours to protect Parliament's integrity and ensure the presence of the promoter. Don't fight with sound logic, defend something that's indefensible. It doesn't matter if the deputy minister, minister or cactus is here. We don't need cactus here. We need a representative of the government so we can discuss a point on the agenda. Fulfill all the conditions that are normal in each Parliament or as you like to say – in accordance with European tradition. No European Parliament can discuss any law here without a representative of the government. Give me one example, and I'll take back everything I said. You can't specify him. What is particularly annoying, and what makes us particularly angry is these warnings of yours. Stop warning. Stop pretending to be smart. You're the mediator here. You need to create conditions, not verbally harass us with your explanations, which, I repeat, and that will end, have nothing to do with sound logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18322	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. I'm warning you always before I give a measure which is required to be imposed on the basis of article 100. If you carefully read the members of the Rules of Procedure to which you are calling, you will see that it is my obligation to give the measure to the MP who reiterates the objection that has already been made, not wanting to be unpopular, unpleasant, above all unpopular and unpleasant, procedures, such as the statement of notice, immediately and on the basis of Article 100 which obliges me, I say, I warn you, and I will do so in the future, with a desire to remind you to consult a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are calling. Article 104 is not injured. Members of 104 were injured by MPs Jovan Palalic, Zoran Nikolic and Nenad Popovic by obtaining from the bench, violating Article 104 by interrupting the chairman and acting unworthy and therefore giving you a warning. There will be no warning now, with the hope that we will continue to work together and form a practice of mutual respect and respect for all provisions and members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MPs who have committed injuries to Articles 194 and 196 are wrong. The injury was not done and I ask you to prove, if you want to see it, that the injury occurred during the procedure and to support it with some member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Palalic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18323	I appeal to Article 194, which says – the right and duty of the Government's representatives in the National Assembly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18324	People's MP, you can't call for a violation of the procedure that has already been made during the National Assembly session. I ask you to consult article 100, all positions of article 100, and see what your rights are and what your duties are. Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President-in-Office of the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I advertise Article 31. Rules of Procedure. I'd like to read it: Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly are helping the president of the National Assembly to do business in its operation. The President of the National Assembly, in the event of temporary prevention, replaces one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, whom he appoints, which he informs all vice-presidents and secretaries of the National Assembly. If the President of the National Assembly does not determine which of the vice-presidents is replacing him, it will be replaced by the oldest vice president in the event of temporary prevention. Mrs. Komic, I will not enter into who is the oldest vice president and whether you have special authority from the president of the National Assembly, but it is obvious that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, for the reason that you avenge the President of the National Assembly, because the Assembly cannot begin to work because it is interpreted as something that is completely unnatural. Someone came in, so these chairs that Serbian citizens paid dearly for thirty and a few minutes are completely empty and the question is, isn't it embarrassing for someone from the government not to come to this house? I guess we worked this gym so that the government's representatives would look us in the eye here, not sit like they used to, and it's perfectly normal for someone from the government to be here with the MPs to discuss this important law. I would really like to ask you, and I would like to join all the MPs who warned you about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18326	None of the provisions of Article 31 have been violated, and an unfounded call for infringement of Article 31, especially during this procedure, because I am taking care of the orderly and coordinated work of the bodies of the National Assembly and I respect both Article 31 and Article 27. National MP Jovan Palalic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18327	I'm referring to the provision that I'm misread. I wanted you, Madam Chairman... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18328	People's MP, I've already said you don't have the right to reply to the President's explanation. Please respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You will receive a word every time it is the basis for a word in one of the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MP cannot have a replica of the explanation given by the chairman, and after the suspicion that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, it is not possible. The right to replica is the discretionary right of the chairman during the discussion given to participants at the session, and you can ask the National Assembly to declare that the chairman is in breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can look for any other member who's involved in the procedure. You can't go straight to the replica. It's an abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do you want a word again based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18329	Your Honored chairman, you have violated all members involved in the procedure. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18330	National MP, you are required to quote a member, the descriptive representation of all members involved in the procedure, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. You want to talk about the Rules of Procedure again? National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18331	Dear Chairman, you have violated Article 1, 2, 3, 4, 5... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18332	National MP, the members you quote are not concerned with the procedure of the session of the National Assembly. I urge you to read article 100 and see that the violation of the Rules of Procedure can only be said for the procedure immediately during the session at which it is present and for which the injury is pronounced. The articles you started to quote are not related to the session procedure. Thank you. National MP Milos Radulovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18333	Madam Chairman, you have violated Article 27...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18334	National MP, the violation of article 27 has already been made during this session. I remind you of the provisions of article 100 which stipulates that you cannot speak twice about the injury of the same member during the procedure, that is, the course of the session we attend. Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Milos Radulovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18335	Madam Chairman, I appeal to Article 195: "The right and duty of the government to present itself in the National Assembly when considering all issues from its jurisdiction is borne by the Prime Minister. The government shall determine the members of the Government representing it on a specific issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of the Committee. ". Madam President, you are an MP, just like us, with the right to hold a session, or chair a session and to take care of the order in this session. At this point, we should discuss a very important agreement, ratification of an agreement between the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the conditions of mutual travel between citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Russia. I don't think you have the right to explain, or you're not a representative of the government that explains this law, and you're obliged to ensure the presence of one of the ministers, or a representative of the Government, who will explain the law. Madam Chairman, the way you act is precisely in favor of what the ruling majority wants, to make this assembly a black hole.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18336	National MP, there is no violation of Article 195, nor does he refer to the procedure. You are allowed to explain with hope that you will put in any connection the course of the session and the provision of the Rules of Procedure which you have read, which is not the case. I'm really warning you not to abuse your right to a word. Abuse of the right to a word by the MPs is as much a violation as our joint criticism for government representatives who do not respect the National Assembly. It is unacceptable for you to give yourself the right to abuse the Rules of Procedure, and for others you deny the right to abuse the same Rules of Procedure. I have said three times so far and I will repeat - I agree with the government's obligation to send my representative. I believe that the government is obliged to send an explanation and apology, if not some of the members of the government are able to attend the cabinet session, and the State Secretary and Assistants must be present at the session. I ask you, MPs, that you do not abuse your rights, that you do not leave me without the space of another, but that I give you measures of caution, such as in the case of the MP Milos Radulovic, who is calling for Article 195, who has nothing to do with the sitting. It is forbidden to abuse the Rules of Procedure, no matter how much understanding it has for all the objections raised by MPs, calling for different members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18337	Thank you. I just started with Article 1, maybe I made a mistake, though I don't think so. Now I'm going to start with the last member of 252, which says...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18338	People's MP, please read article 100 and see what you can say as a violation of the Rules of Procedure during the session of the National Assembly. Thank you. (Zoran Nikolic, from the post: I report to the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP, you are disturbing order at the session of the National Assembly and you are acting contrary to Article 104. It is my job and my obligation to know what it says in which member of the Rules of Procedure, because it is necessary knowledge for the conduct of the session. (Zoran Nikolic, from the post: I report to the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to speak, thank you. You have no right to speak, you abuse the Rules of Procedure. Please take your seat and do not disturb the session. National MP Zoran Nikolic does not have the right to speak because he abuses members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (Zoran Nikolic, from the place: You will never take that right from me. It's a business thing. I'm looking for a 100th word, according to the Rules of Procedure. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? (Zoran Nikolic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to speak, MP. National MPs Marina Ragush wants to speak as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18339	In the first place, I must express the astonishment of the SRS parliamentary club, because there are no representatives of the government in a situation where we should talk about such an important agreement. I didn't answer to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because radicals traditionally dance on very thin wire and always take risks. Mrs. Komic, I am fully convinced that there are no MPs here who can understand this debate in the way we are starting today and frankly, no apology by the government's representatives will be accepted. We are completely upside down trying to start a debate that should give us some answers to certain dilemmas, especially when it comes to the Russian Federation in the context – in the first place protecting Serbian national interests from all international existing institutions. What's unheard of is that we begin this debate without any explanation by the promoter regarding such an important agreement. The fact that they will send us a written notice, an explanation of why they were prevented from attending such an important topic, I say in front of the SRS parliamentary group, at the beginning we will not accept. I think this is very incorrect and completely inappropriate to this political and historical situation. He's present, I suppose, a gentleman who doesn't even have the opportunity to speak to us as MPs. We have a really large number of important issues here. Here we can present information that may not be official, and yet we expect the official representative to react. We're not getting that today. Today, we will have a debate, debates, and that is what is inadmissible for this Parliament. And the government, who knows which way, treats an institution like this, like the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. To move to the agenda point, I would not risk, to talk outside the framed agenda, what is most important for the SRS is that this is the first chance to talk about relations with the Russian Federation, about what climate and what context we are trying to achieve co-operation with an exceptional and significant partner, with a world force that should help Serbia in the first place preserve its territorial integrity and sovereignty. The SRS, of course, is not a secret, which is what our traditional political action, the political programme, sees Serbia's future through co-operation in the first place with the Russian Federation. We see economically recovered Serbia with the only country that has so far shown a well-intentioned view of the Serbian people, even in those times when there was a completely non-Russian and anti-Russian government at the head of the Russian Federation, even though we were not bombed. We will try to frame Serbia's relations with the Russian Federation through topics, but also how do we think we can touch the important topics that we think are certainly in conflict with the national interests of the Serbian people and what should be the trend in bilateral relations with the Russian Federation, which is the EU lobbyist campaign on Serbia's territory, which goes directly against even good relations with the Russian Federation. But we will try to first, unfortunately, expect the Proposer to do so, give a certain political and historical context within which we should talk in one reasoned way about a very important agreement that should take two brotherly peoples and two friendly countries to connect even more. We hope that there will be room if, at least during this debate, someone from the competent ministry finds it appropriate to answer such an important topic and to appear in the building of this prestigious home, to round up one of the most important topics from the beginning of 2009, to ask questions and get answers about what awaits us when we talk about the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, what really are our perspectives before the International Court of Justice. At these moments, when we should talk about such an important agreement, in Brdjan, an angry conflict between Serbs and EULEX representatives, in Brdjani, with the support of Eulex, is being restored to Albanian homes. Parliament is silent, the public is not responding. The hills use rubber bullets and certain rounds of ammunition. We also wanted to talk to the official representatives of the government. The Serbian people are at the mercy of the Albanian population and completely illegal and illegal authorities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. But unfortunately, Serbian citizens should see this picture and realize that the government has no interest in good neighbourly and truly extremely high-quality bilateral relations between the Russian Federation and the state of Serbia. Someone in this country and someone in this country does not care, apparently, that Serbia strengthens relations with the only force that can do something for Serbia and the benefit of the Serbian people. So, the SRS MPs' club is just gonna talk about it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18340	The word is by MP Nenad Popovic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18341	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS will vote in favour of this bill. I will return to this humiliation of the Assembly, but it may not be by any chance – that no government official, except for the honourable secretary of state, is here. Can you imagine the situation that this visa waiver that we're doing with Russia right now, if it weren't for this topic today, but if it were a topic -- the visa waiver from the EU, today the whole government would be sitting here, we couldn't live off the marketing and those false promises that were. When it comes to Russia, none of the government's representatives. If it were the EU, we'd all be sitting down. Government officials, this government, prime minister, all ministers have a lower-value complex. Let me tell you something, if Germany, France had this law, if their visas were lifted, believe me, the entire German government would sit here, to lift visas for the citizens of Germany with the Russian Federation. In the French Parliament, the whole government of France would be if Russia would lift their visas. That's what this is all about. This government has no respect for the Russian Federation. This is a fantastic message from the government about the non-compliance of the Russian Federation, when no single minister comes to the bill, which is one of the most important and economic laws for the future of the Serbian economy. But it's a matter of this government. I want to say a few sentences about what Russia's moves were compared to Serbia. First of all, Russia has generally supported Serbia in the fight for Kosovo and Metohija all the time. That's the only reason why the whole government should be sitting here. No, this is a clear message from this government to the Russian Federation. There were never any conditions on the part of the Russian Federation regarding support for Kosovo and Metohija, because they stood clearly in defence of international law, and thus also in defence of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, Russia has given Serbia, the only country in Europe outside the Association of Independent States, to enjoy the benefits of the duty-free regime in trade with the Russian Federation. It is an unprecedented impulse for a Serbian economy which, unfortunately, has not yet been used enough, but will certainly, by correcting the economic situation, come into place. Third, what is Russia doing further for Serbia? It's building South Stream through Serbia. Although it is certain that the South Stream through Romania would be cheaper and more economically cost-effective for the Russian Federation, the government of Vojislav Kostunica has during that period managed to agree and we are truly grateful to Russia for this support that it has decided that the South Stream is passing through Serbia, thus ensuring both energy security and the economic future and a very important element for Serbia's economic development over the next decade. Fourthly, it is this visa-free regime for Serbian citizens. No country in the EU has such an agreement. Although the EU, to inform you, proposed to introduce this in December 2008, Serbia is also in this case in a privileged agreement with the Russian Federation. Russia is our largest foreign trade partner. Four billion dollars is our annual turnover. That's $500 million worth of exports. After the South Stream and the entry of Gazprom into NIS, Russia is also the largest investor in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, Russia is the market with the biggest economic potential for us, and we have the best preferences in free trade – the 150 million market, and indirectly, if we look at countries with which Russia has free trade law, that is close to 250 million inhabitants. Today, to inform you, close to 40,000 Serbian workers are working on the territory of the Russian Federation, they are privileged to finance their families and relatives here in Serbia. By abolishing visas, and Serbia has already abolished visas during the government of Vojislav Kostunica to the citizens of the Russian Federation, the Russians, as the most desirable tourists in the world, will have the opportunity to come to Serbia, to see everything Serbia can offer today and also to affect the economic situation throughout the country. Of course, I would not talk about the historical friendship and co-operation of the Serbian and Russian people, it is known to everyone, because there are no today in a world closer to two peoples than Russian and Serbian. As far as energy stability is concerned, we have already said that by building the South Stream, Serbia will become a key energy hub for Western Europe and Russia, in this sense, is very helpful to us, that we will become a much more desirable EU partner after the construction of the South Stream. Let me tell you what the answers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are to these concessions made by the Russian Federation. First of all, the government, as usual, has no policy strategy with the Russian Federation. The first example is NIS sales negotiations and South Stream construction. In the Republika Srpska Assembly, 220 lawmakers ratified the agreement, the best economic agreement Serbia has signed in the last 40 years. Then the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Economy, the man who should most propagate what has been ratified by the Assembly, leaves the task force in an upcoming manner, attacks the agreement that it is bad and cynically sending messages to the Russian Federation what the Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks of them. It is the worst possible message this government could do, but this is the attitude of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards concessions from the Russian Federation. The second scandal took place in December, or is happening these days. The government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to send its soldiers to NATO maneuvers in Georgia, although Russia is categorically against these maneuvers, even though Russia said these maneuvers are the biggest provocation and coup against the Russian Federation. Never has a Serbian soldier set foot on the eastern borders in history, never was a Serb soldier on Russian borders. The government, by a decision of December last year, that is, by stretching this decision now, will, for the first time, allow the Serbian foot to set foot in the east. It never happened and it's a shame. We insist that this does not happen in any case and that this decision, this reckless decision, this disastrous decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia must change urgently, because it is the biggest provocation for the Russian Federation. Both of these examples, around the NIS and about sending soldiers to the NATO maneuvers to Georgia, which has not yet been withdrawn, show that the government has no relation to politics, or political relations with the Russian Federation, although it has them in front of all other countries. Of course, I want to say that the potentials offered by our co-operation with Russia are still not used enough for essential reasons, because the Serbian economy in the years of sanctions, the bombing was indeed decapitated, and it takes years and years for the Serbian economy to return to a large door to the Russian market, as it was in the 1970s and 1980s. Germany is the largest trading partner of the Russian Federation, followed by America. Both countries have made a strategy for political and economic relations. Let me tell you that on these maneuvers in Georgia, since Russia said it was a provocation, there will be no German soldiers, there will be no Italian soldiers, because Berlusconi is doing everything possible to have the best possible relations, both political and economic, with the Russian Federation. There will be no French soldiers either, because Sarkozy, in his economic plan and what the previous prime minister did before, is doing everything possible to establish the best possible political and economic relations. The Serbian government, the government, which has promised and lied to citizens that it will have 1,000 euros of free action, which has promised citizens 700m euros that Fiat will invest in Kragujevac, the government whose vice president has said that by the end of the flag government's mandate, millions of cars, the government that has promised to lift the white Schengen list has cheated and lied to its citizens. That is why he will see the citizens' reaction in the next elections. This same government has no strategy for relations with the Russian Federation. I would have to say that the lack of results, despite the concessions made by the Russian Federation in free trade, must not be demoralised, but we must do everything to make economic co-operation happen with Russia at all levels, from chambers of commerce, from the government, from the Assembly, from all agencies and from all the necessary institutions in Serbia, because the future for the Serbian economy is like when it was strongest, it was now in the 1970s and 1980s. I must say, the largest Serbian firm Genex, Progress, 70-80% of the trades were made annually with the Russian Federation. We have to go back to the big door there, but we have to invest a lot in ourselves, in the economy. With this government, it's going to be hard, because the government, I'm going to repeat it again, there's no strategy. I don't have to say that it is necessary as soon as possible to develop a strategy of political and economic relations between Serbia and the Russian Federation, because we, apart from the energy security and the excellent economic concessions we have, must do our utmost to ensure that trade, especially in the direction from Serbia to Russia, that is, the export of Serbian products and co-operation with joint ventures, with Russian firms on the Russian Federation market and on the Serbian market, is established at an as high level as possible. The strategy would include a wide range of those that are necessary to involve it, first of all another government, the Assembly, chambers of commerce, associations of businessmen, entrepreneurs and associations and on a clear platform of organisation of future economic relations to create a strategy that would not be short and medium-term, but long-term, for the next 10-15 years. I keep saying, Western European countries have seen these things 30 years before us and they have associations of economic co-operation with the Russian Federation on a much higher level, although they do not have these concessions that we have only today practically in the world. Also, I think that Serbia's development programme is under conditions of the economic crisis done by the DSS and one of the main elements and is in our programme that necessary co-operation with the Russian Federation, because without it, under the conditions of the economic crisis, Serbia has no chance of achieving what it has planned, which is to preserve jobs and preserve domestic economy. Serbia needs in relations with Russia to show respect and respect for the positions this country has in geopolitical relations in the modern world. It's a question of our relationship to a super force, and we can't forget that fact. Russia, I repeat, has shown respect for the Republic of Serbia with full support, unreserved support in preserving the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and the definitive construction of the southern flow and entering the NIS. Russia has shown this respect and attitude towards Serbia and there is no single reason why we do not show this respect for Russia. There are many synergy effects, if Serbia had more respect and respect and if it made a strategy for political and economic relations with the Russian Federation, and opportunities would be much higher, especially in co-operation with EU countries. That synergy effect is huge. It's completely untapped today. I think that the EU's respect for the Republic of Serbia after achieving these economic goals in co-operation with the Russian Federation would be much greater, and this will also be shown after the construction of the South Stream, when we will become an inevitable partner and the EU in the relations of energy and energy stability throughout Europe. So I'm saying that this synergy effect is even greater than any positive elements we can have in collaboration with the Russian Federation. All European countries, including America, tend to have the best political and economic relations. They work very wisely with the Russian Federation. I think we need a clear strategy, both economic and political, but it's not there. This government can't do it. I'll use my time for the final word, thank you, Madam Chairman. Once again, I confirm that the DSS will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18342	The word has a folk letter from Nada Kolundji, president of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18343	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so that the citizens know, since the debate has begun very unusually, in fact, what we are talking about today, we are talking about a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel between the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Russian Federation, or, in short, the establishment of a visa-free regime between our two countries. The ZES parliamentary group will, of course, vote for this law, keeping a few things in mind. First of all, starting with the fact that good relations with the Russian Federation are the interest of Serbia, that the deepening and continuous improvement of these relations is of special interest to the citizens of Serbia and, at the same time, taking into account that in March 2008, the government made a decision that unilaterally abolished visas for the citizens of the Russian Federation, and that this law now puts Serbian citizens in the same position as the citizens of the Russian Federation, i.e. this agreement foresees the full equality of the citizens of the two states, and we see this as an extremely important step in establishing relations between the two countries. For us, it is undeniable that Russia is a big and important country. This importance is confirmed by the fact that we are ready to develop relations with Russia from day to day, but also the relationship between the two countries is not an issue of emotion and, in particular, it is not the right of those who run the country. The issue of relations between the two countries is the issue of the interests of the citizens of the country and in the best interest of Serbian citizens, it is that relations with the Russian Federation should be settled in an equal manner when it comes to visa-free regimes. For this reason, I repeat, the fact that, in exactly the same conditions, the agreement defines the rights and conditions for the travel of Serbian citizens, i.e. the Russian Federation to Serbia, the ZES parliamentary group will vote in favour of the agreement. I just want to say that it remains really unclear why someone who is so committed to deepening relations with Russia, to this extent the importance of this act that we are bringing in today tried to reduce the way this session began its work. I want to say that the fact that this is before us today in an urgent procedure shows that it is important for the government, and that it is important for the Assembly, that this agreement is ratified as soon as possible, and I hope that in the day of voting, it will receive most of the MPs in the National Assembly and that in this way one very important issue between Serbia and its very important country, the Russian Federation, will be regulated in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18344	The word was sought by MP Nenad Popovic, the right to replication based on recognition and misreading. I need a stenogram to add that this should enter parliamentary practice, because it is replicated between parliamentary groups that will both vote in favour of the law. Anyway, thank you and be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18345	Thank you, Vice President. You helped me interpret the Rules of Procedure. I'm extremely grateful. I want to replicate to the distinguished Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia. We do not want to diminish the importance of this extremely important document, we are extremely pleased and overjoyed that this law will be passed and we will vote for it. I just wanted to say that this is the government's relationship with the Russian Federation, and I've cited specific cases. I'd like you to be specific to me. Did Deputy Prime Minister Mr Dinkic, when this parliament ratified an agreement with 220 votes, leave the task force and say this was a bad deal, the worst agreement for Serbia? Is that true, Mrs. Kolundjia? I would ask you to disprove me if for the first time in the history of the Serb people, a Serb soldier would go to the East? Will it be the first time in the history of the Serbian Serb Serb military to set foot on Russia's borders, if it comes, if the Serb soldiers go to these NATO maneuvers in Georgia, which Russia has seen as the greatest provocation possible. This is what I wanted to show how this government disrespects the Russian Federation. They repeat once again, if we were to make a decision today on visa waivers, not with the Russian Federation, but with the EU, we would be sitting here all over the government, taking pictures, and we couldn't get a word out of them for months. Television, images, would be folk joy and fireworks, and when visas are lifted with the Russian Federation, with a country with which a single German, French, all EU countries would like to abolish visas, all would like to have the same law, no single minister from the government has come. I just wanted to say it. The DSS is very looking forward to this law. This law is logical and this law will help develop and economic, both political and all other relations with the Russian Federation, which has proved to be a great friend of Serbia and has helped us unreservedly at the most difficult times towards being, both in the past and today, and we are grateful to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18346	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been issued by MP Miroslav Markicevic, deputy president of the NS parliamentary group, followed by MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic. The time available for the NS parliamentary group is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18347	Dear citizens of Serbia, fellow MPs, at first I would like to say that for the law that is right, the law on confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Russian Federation -- MPs of the NS, the MP group of NS, will be proud to vote. As for the stories that today were also the subject, which were especially from the head of the ZES parliamentary group, Mrs. Hope Kolundgia, imposed, I would say on this solemn day, when our country, or citizens of our country, did not know after how many years, because everyone is crying for these visas, or by abolishing visas, we are adopting one law that will abolish visas. As far as the geographical situation is concerned, Mrs. Kolundzija, that is twice the EU. So, as far as traveling is concerned, if we measure it for miles, the adoption of this law will abolish visas for Serbian citizens and they will be able to travel twice as many geographical areas as the EU. I would like to draw a few, folksly, questions, which is the absence of Minister Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister, because there is something in this law in the material that Serbian citizens will not be able to see if someone does not show them, and that is under Article 11, the agreement -- for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Vuk Jeremic, Cyrillic, thank God, beautifully written, for the government of the Russian Federation, Sergei Lavrov. Mr. Foreign Minister is not here in the Assembly today. What message does the government of Serbia send to his resolute counterpart, Minister Sergei Lavrov? If someone didn't get me wrong, I don't blame Mr. Vuk Jeremic at all, on the contrary, I think he's a man, given what kind of government he's sitting in, the kind of party that's running for his seat, he's doing his job very well. I am free to claim that he is not allowed to come to the National Assembly of Serbia today, especially because of what has been happening in the past few months on the political scene of Serbia. Just to remember visiting the prime minister of a neighbouring country in Serbia, so Croatia. It was in the media that the condition for Sanader to come to Belgrade, that the day of the foreign minister of our state of Serbia would not be in the state. As strange and funny as it may seem to us then, it really happened that Mr. Vuk Jeremic wasn't in Serbia, he was in Turkey. And these claims, whether they are tabloids, whether they are serious media or unserious, and their claims have indeed proved true and Minister Jeremic was not in the state of Serbia that day. It was logical that when it comes to international, foreign affairs and visiting such an important statesman, such as Mr Sanader, the foreign minister, would be present. As a man, I want to protect the assistant defence minister, Mr Dusan Spasojevic, who I know is a good Serb and a good nationalist, who, five or six days ago, drew our attention to the existence of an agreement, namely the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that representatives of the Serbian Army participate in NATO maneuvers at the borders of our brotherly Russia, which is the signator of this law, or agreement that we are to adopt today, which concerns hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens, so on visa waiver. So he drew attention to us that the agreement, or decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has been in place for six months. I'm here because of the urgency of the problem, since these exercises, NATO maneuvers at Russia's borders and despite Russia's opposition, very clearly and loudly, as Russia thanks God and knows and how some in the world deserve it, our country remains silent and our army will seem to be, I think these maneuvers are 6. May to participate. A few days ago, I asked for an answer because of the urgency of the issue to respond to the National Assembly, the public and the citizens of Serbia in whose interest it is and whether it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, the Serbian Army, and the Government, and the President, and to the National Assembly and all citizens living in this Serbia, whether it is in the interest, as Mr Nenad Popovic, the Serb boot, the Serb soldier comes, if he comes, to the borders of Russia, unfortunately, the most embarrassing in the history of the world, in the history of the Serbian state. We also had the defence ministry's accusation that it is responsible, that and whether, we will see, we hope not, the Serbian army participates in NATO maneuvers in Georgia, that this is the fault of the Foreign Ministry and that the Ministry of Defence is looking for it, that it was all in the media, that no one has denied the last three or four days, that the Ministry of Defence is asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to abolish the decision. Then we heard from diplomatic channels, you know what it looks like, from sources close to the Foreign Ministry that they weren't in charge of it, and that they didn't even make that decision. After all that is happening in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is a very important and very important issue for the future foreign policy position of the Serbian state, it is my humble opinion, I see that there is no agreement in the Government of the Republic of Serbia either there is no telling who is drinking or who is paying. The reduction of the importance of passing this law, Mrs Kolundzija, did not bring and did not participate in the opposition MPs, who advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but the one who ordered Minister Vuk Jeremic not to come to the National Assembly today. Therefore, I will not use, Madam Chairman, all 20 minutes. I will say once again that the NS MPs, the NS MP group with pride, will vote with dignity for this law knowingly important and give God, brothers and sisters, to lift our visas, as the brotherly Russia has lifted our visas, just to see when it comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18348	Right to replication based on the direct mention of the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18349	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I wanted to say is if there is a sincere desire to send a message to the Russian Federation for all of the reasons that you speak, too, of importance, of power, etc., then it remains unclear why a message is being sent that the government has banned the arrival of someone. So, if one can think about how to read the messages coming from one country and how to interpret them, then someone who is well-intentioned and who cares about developing the relationship between Serbia and the Russian Federation would not say something like that, even though that is not the point of the agenda, that the government was against signing an agreement on a gas-oil arrangement. I remind you that this same government has signed this agreement and that we in the Assembly in this assembly have ratified this agreement. I want to say that my question actually meant, if we care about improving relations between Serbia and the Russian Federation, everyone can have their own reasons why your relationships are important, then the messages we send from here must not be like that to work contrary to that interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18350	The word was requested by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18351	On behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party MPs' Club, I would like first of all to say that this is both a happy and solemn day, and to justify the absence of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is in Novi Pazar, trying to help solve some of our common daily and difficult problems. I find it very embarrassing that the session, which was really meant to be solemn, began to be different and the opposition and the SNS as part of that opposition is not responsible for it. I am pleased that among us is the secretary from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Stanimir Vukicevic, who was an ambassador to Russia, and if you had just tried to justify the delay in the traffic of his arrival, we certainly wouldn't have resented that there was no one at the beginning. First of all, I will say that we will vote with all our heart and emotions and with complete reason to adopt this agreement. I have to say that a small-town relationship, which in this country tends to be valuable, has also shown itself on this case. When you see two guys making deals, the third guy thinks they're making deals against him. Unfortunately, both the agreement and all relations with Russia are experienced in a similar wrong way. It's my impression, and I don't want anyone to rephrase it to me, God forbid it's personal, that many in this country literally feel guilty about co-operation with Russia, and in front of the West and America. I think it's unnecessary because with this same Russia they race to welcome first those before whom some in this country feel guilty at all the forums and its leaders. They race to cooperate economically with them, not to be resented in any way at all. Why should we be ashamed to cooperate with the state with which history and tradition and language and religion and literature connect us? And talking to dear brothers and sisters has no direct original meaning anywhere like that right there. I felt it in one visit last June and my sincere commitment that the full liberalisation of the visa regime on both sides and in both directions will be ratified and put into practice as soon as possible, is not motivated, although I do not mind, by any economic interests of some people, and God forbid there are more, such as Mr Popovic, who work with them. It is not motivated by any direct political support to the party I belong to, unlike some others who hurried to read the telegrams of birthday cards, which went to be photographed there when it was useful during the election campaign. The very interests of developing this country, its accelerated economic growth, the interests of both peoples are motivated by this first step that should mean opening co-operation in all possible areas and all aspects. If in cooperation and conversations with people from the Russian Federation you hear that mothers today mention these prominent businessmen as brands – leather shoes from Yugoslavia, our wines, our food, our textiles, if we were once the promised world for them, I see no reason not to work every day and with much power to develop these relationships. There is one additional reason why we should look forward to ratifying this agreement. Russia's support, which we had all the difficult and especially decades ago, was proportionate to their strength on the world political scene, so from their landing at the Slatina airport, through their struggle for international law, and thus us, in the UN Security Council, through the support we have in the International Court of Justice on the irregularity of Kosovo's declaration of independence, to their struggle to abolish The Hague Court -- all of these are evidence that we and our people need to show that someone great, powerful and aware of what is international law, human values and human rights are fundamental to the relations we are going to develop. On the other hand, that doesn't mean that any of us in the SNS, and I can personally confirm, thinks that in these relationships of good understanding and good principled foundations, there should be another rule of love other than love and cheese for money. It's an old saying that no one can blame us. The partnership relations we want to build co-operation on are the principles that need to work, and when we talk about EU accession, co-operation with Russia, with BRIK countries, growing, India, Brazil, China and everyone else who wants to see an equal partner in us. In that sense, there is no cause for shame, there is reason for pride and great caution. I am convinced that no Serb soldier will be found in maneuvers in Georgia. I wish someone in front of the government would give us the confidence of this species. It really wouldn't be right for someone to think that we can be friends in trouble and on the opposite side, because Russia has proven many times that we are friends in trouble, and we who are building friends on all sides, these friendships should be strengthened, supported and strengthened every day, very much taking care of every move and every word we use. With pleasure, on this solemn day, on behalf of the SNS, we will vote for ratification of the agreement, which means bringing two peoples together in every sense, from tourist to economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18352	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly... Yes, the word was requested by MP Vladan Batic. He has the right to speak for five minutes. I'm just asking you to register in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18353	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I can support the proposal for this agreement, but it is no historic act, it is not some solemn day, it is a simple protocol, perfectly appropriate and normal in international communications and in the modern world. This was even Russia's commitment to us. Serbia has long abolished visas for Russian citizens, who have been honestly told to them much more necessary than theirs. So it's just respect for the principle of reciprocity and nothing else. Now it's a glorifice in some big words, that it's history, a ceremony, it's nonsense. One more thing, since some parties are obviously uninformed, uninformed or illiterate when it comes to international relations. The Russian Federation is not in favour of abolishing the Hague court, it founded it. So, the Russian Federation founded Mrs Tabakovic for your information, The Hague Court, as a permanent member of the Security Council. The Russian Federation cannot influence the decisions of the International Court of Justice. It is the highest international judicial institution. That may be your idea of how justice can be affected. This is mentioned in the pre-election campaign – that some judicial rulings will be reconsidered, but now this brings it into the context of visa waiver is completely pointless. The same Russian Federation has not respected our demands for the extradition of some of our citizens who are to be found on the defendant's bench. We remember, at the time of NATO intervention, that the Russian overseas fleet left the Black Sea to prevent NATO intervention and seems to be still traveling. Let's just drop those stories of patriotism, brotherhood and things like that. This is a technical job. This is a good thing, that people don't break into embassies, consulates or interior ministries to get visas. It's an elemental thing that doesn't have anything to do with emotion and love. It's absolutely one protocol and technical thing. I didn't hear the Russians celebrate and proclaim the historic day that Serbia abolished visas for Russian citizens. Let's narrow it down to the measure he deserves. So, as an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, I am for this agreement, but not to make some historic event out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18354	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs submitted parliamentary groups - Nova Srbija, DSS and the SRS. We're going to the debate, and we're going to do it on the floor. The first registered speaker is the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic, followed by the National MP Marina Ragus.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18355	Madam Vice President, by respecting your personal authority and authority of this assembly, I cannot believe that you have sided with a government that hides and does not send its representatives, at least at a time intended whenever it comes to relations with the Russian Federation. Is it possible that, apart from the government and you, as well as the president of this assembly, it falls under the influence of the anti-Russian lobby depicted in the image of Mladjen Minhauzen, who has failed to bring down the energy agreement, and has been doing it over and over again, wouldn't it ruin any useful relationship between Serbia and Russia, as one of the few countries that has a partner-respect relationship with us, not the expectations of a type - a long stick and a small carrot? Is it also why the backbone of this yellow-party light and red card is constantly giving in relation to Russia? Does your pre-election promise and the obsession of the EU have no alternative, with the promise that we will finally come to the famous Schengen list, automatically exclude the importance of a special relationship with Russia and the abolition of visas for Russia to Serbian citizens? I fully agree with Mr. Nenada Popovic – that this government and its exhibits in this assembly do not respect the importance of any agreement with the Russian Federation. I agree with the already named remarks by the creator of the economic programme for Serbia's development in terms of the economic crisis -- that everything related to the Russians by the government and the ruling party is somehow shyly dragged, almost at a small door. If it were to lift visas for any, or even the smallest, EU country, this would be the whole set of ministers with all assistants, cabinet heads, state secretaries, and of course it would not have excluded the presence of the largest marketing expert, or person in the role of Serbian President. Last December 25th, the government decided on all of this to send our troops to Georgia for the initiative of the Sutanovic military minister, pardon Sutanovac. At Easter, while Orthodox believers celebrated the greatest Christian holiday, information appeared in the media about sending our soldiers to NATO military maneuvers in Georgia and published as a kind of cowardly egg within this Easter egg story. It was likely to go undetected for Serbian citizens. However, New Serbia, the deputy president of the NS Parliament Club, Mr Miroslav Markicevic, asked the question at the time – who decided that Serbia's army would be among the 19 NATO exercise participants in Georgia? The former and soon-to-be Serbian prime minister, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, also called for the authorities in Serbia to immediately withdraw a decision on Serbia's participation in NATO maneuvers, because Serbia is militaryly neutral, saying -- Serbia's participation in NATO's manoeuvres at the borders of our friendly Russia offends the deepest feelings of the Serb people, because it has just marked the ten-year-old NATO aggression on our country. We therefore warn the government that it respects the decision on Serbia's military neutrality and that it does not play with the dignity of the state and the dignity of the Serbian people. Two days later, three MPs here asked a question about the shameful sending of our troops to NATO maneuvers. It is about Ms. Marina Ragush from the SRS, Dragan Shormaz from the DSS, and I, on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, requested the resignation of the competent and responsible minister, Mr. Sutanovac. What is very important today is that Serbia's Dvori and more than 20 NGOs launched an initiative and action titled "Let's Change NATO Minister in the Government of Serbia". The action has so far been supported by 50 prominent public figures from all areas of social life. Support has just arrived from the deputy editor-in-chief of PC World. It is obvious that Serbian intellectuals, the Serbian public, responded to this shameful attempt to resent Russia for no reason. Resolution 1244 envisions sending the army to Kosovo. In Kosovo, it is not the Serb army, but that is why the Serb armies will be in Georgia. Secondly, here we heard from the representatives of the yellow party in our time that no Serbian mother would cry again. Is it possible that, in addition to all this, someone is making a decision to send our troops to Georgia to participate among the 19 other NATO exercise participants, and to throw ourselves out once and for all? What is very important is that the National Assembly of Serbia, as the state body with the largest democratic legitimacy in the country, has adopted a resolution on Serbia's military neutrality and, as far as I know, the resolution has not changed until today. On the basis of whose authority and what authority, then this military minister, who doesn't know how many bullets he has in his clip, decides to send our soldiers to NATO military maneuvers in Georgia? Why does Serbia keep quiet, although there is a very organised action, a petition involving all important Serbian intellectuals, young people, 20 Serbian NGOs? Why is it silenced that it is really embarrassing and embarrassing for the Serbian people to make such a decision at the time when Russia's President Dmitri Medvedev suspends co-operation with NATO over military exercises at the Russian border and when Georgia itself does not know the political weight of Michael Sakashvili's regime, since the opposition's major protests are under way with a request for his shift? Our military minister, impertinently repealing the decision of all democratic institutions of Serbia, voluntarily sends our troops to help NATO the pact and dictator Sakashvili. Earlier, the deputy head of the NS Parliament Club said there was a certain animosity in relation to the foreign minister, animosity from some other members of the government, which we could see in the reactions written in the journal "Blic", where Minister Sutanovac took off his responsibility, trying to attribute and project this responsibility to Mr Vuk Jeremic. Then it came back, again according to sources B92, the Foreign Ministry said that such a decision had never been made. However, the defence minister responsible is Minister Dragan Sutanovac, and I really demand this time to answer the parliamentary questions that have been asked here, above all, to the question when the minister will resign. As far as today's agreement is concerned, every normal man may not be too brief a moment, but it is a very important moment in which Serbia somehow returns its dignity and re-enters partner relations with a Federation such as the great Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18356	The word is a folk letter from Marina Ragush, followed by the messenger of the people, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18357	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the bill of law as it is about confirming between the two governments, the two states, such as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel of the citizens of the two countries, are most often said to be technical matters. However, since our bilateral relations and what is the political commitment of the ruling majority are burdened by many political disagreements, Serbian citizens are not the clearest way to go, when 56% of people, according to the "Iria" survey, think the government is on the wrong path. First, we have the first stage of very cold relations with the Russian Federation, then the phase of warming relations with the Russian Federation. We confuse citizens, and we're all a little confused, so this certainly can't be, at least for the representatives of the SRS, a technical matter. One such agreement arises as a result of bilateral relations. Such an agreement arises as a result of relations between the two countries. It would be a shame to talk about the relations of the Russian Federation and the state of Serbia in the context of such an agreement only from a technical point of view. What the opposition tried to draw attention to today is another additional argument, which is totally ignored by the executive authority of this parliament, so that with the impression of it, and that is our political confidence, and it is legitimate to plow with political beliefs, that there is simply power behind the executive government, but in the shadow, and that instead of Mr. Cvetkovic, Mr. Boris Tadic is the real and real prime minister of the Serbian government. It is our belief, and it seems to me to be growing confidence and citizens of Serbia, and every day we get confirmation through the government's relationship to this Parliament and such important topics. So for the SRS, this thing can't be a technical question. This thing raises a number of other questions that we have not received an answer to, although we have used the parliamentary opportunity to ask for and receive concrete answers, especially regarding the embarrassing fact, and it is the participation of two senior officers in the NATO command centre, in maneuvers at the border with the Russian Federation. What we had the opportunity to hear, very officially, was a sharp protest by the president of the Russian Federation of Mr. Medvedev, also a very sharp protest by Mr. Rogozin, a very unmistakable response, mostly through the writing of media representatives of the resolution ministries. But there is a fact that at some point the government has concluded that two Yugoslav Army officers are participating in NATO maneuvers at the Russian border. That's the most embarrassing fact, and that was six months ago. No matter when it was, if we're counting on the support of one force, we're the Russians, we're not hiding it, we think it's the way of our recovery, and I'm not hiding it, and that's our concept. Here in this House we regularly have a conflict of two dogmas and two concepts, one that says that co-operation between the East and the West, which is impossible, because the West has destroyed bridges with the East. One of the latest evidence is maneuvers at the border with the Russian Federation by the NATO Alliance, a bigger finger in the eye could not have happened. We would like to hear – how the executive government thinks it makes something that is incompatible. Besides, if the West wanted really good relations with the East, Serbia wouldn't need to be a bridge of that co-operation. It is obvious that some of Serbia only needs it as a corridor to go to the eastern market, let's say in the territory of the Russian Federation when it comes to the automotive industry, so we had a very drastic response to Mr Sergei Sjojgu, who refused to have Fiat's cars on Russia's territory, for this very reason. It is our legitimate right to not only talk about such an agreement as a technical matter, because it is extremely significant, that I can partly agree with what the previous speakers have said, that it is very important that a unilateral vote for this kind of agreement is put forward as a conclusion from this Parliament, just when it comes to a concrete historical and political moment. But in this regard, you will allow, it is inappropriate not to have representatives of the proposings sitting there who should have at least the beginning of the story we are trying to talk about in an argument. Why it is also important for the people of Serbia to understand that this story cannot have a technical character, is the next fact. Unfortunately, Mr Batic is not here, but I would only refer to what he said – the Russian Federation, it is the official stance of the Russian Federation, at least according to the stages of Mr Curkin's SB is the next – the Russian Federation advocates reviewing and reviewing all decisions of the UN tribunal. If the minister in charge were present, he would very likely confirm this fact. There are stenograms from session SB, that's what anyone can really see, to make sure of it. What was inevitable was that we heard, what we expected was a certain review of the relationship between the Russian Federation and Serbia, also to hear the importance of good co-operation with the Russian Federation in the context of significant decisions before international institutions, such as the International Court of Justice. We also expected to hear what are the most significant and recent conclusions from many diplomatic visits and negotiations, but unfortunately, we were denied that kind of debate and indeed the only logical conclusion that is imposed on this occasion is that executive power has no interest at least in this story. We had certain topics these days that were not technical, so certain resolution ministries, or their representatives, were not present. Mrs. Komic, I really hope that this practice will change and that we will finally have sessions that will really look like the fulfillment of the nature of the parliament itself, even under the Constitution of the Serbian state. To finally return to the topic, and all of this is a broader context of this topic, what is significant for Serbian citizens is that in a warrant of 4 February of this year, published on the Russian government's website, the foreign ministry has been ordered to sign an agreement on behalf of the government between the Russian Federation and the government of the Republic of Serbia on the conditions of mutual travel of citizens of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Serbia, following an agreement with the Serbian side. The warrant also includes the text of the agreement, which states that the parties sign an agreement driven by the desire to develop friendly relations between the two countries and the tendency to simplify the way Russian and Serbian citizens travel. If we are talking about the very text of the agreement, which Serbian citizens need to know what it is, we also see that this cannot be just a technical issue, but rather a very important debate, especially as we expect from the Russian Federation really significant assistance. Article 1 of this Agreement states that citizens of one side enter, exit and reside in transit and stay on the other side's territory on the basis of valid visa-free documents – you will agree that this is also very important for the citizens of Serbia, provided that the length of their continuous stay does not exceed 30 days from the day of entry. The exception is to citizens with diplomatic or official passports, for which the visa-free regime applies for an uninterrupted stay for up to 90 days. Also, citizens referred to diplomatic and consular representations or representations by international organisations, as well as members of their families who live with them, with diplomatic or official passports, can enter, exit, be transited and stay in another country without visas throughout the period of validity of their accreditation. Visas will not be necessary, and I believe that this is truly of great importance to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are preparing to travel the path of the Russian, brotherly, Federation, and based on the discussions that we have had the opportunity to hear or merely technical confirmation of the agreement, they would certainly not know, therefore, that visas will not be needed for citizens of any foreign signatories who have a permit for temporary stay on the territory of the other side or a document confirming the right of a foreign citizen or a stateless person to remain in Russia for visa-free entry into Russian territory. The entry of citizens who come to the territory of another country due to work or attending classes is made by visas issued in accordance with the legislation of the country to which they are coming. The minors travel on the basis of valid documents or valid documents from their parents with whom they travel. We expected all of this to be heard by the proposing representatives, but unfortunately we didn't. The Agreement does not restrict the right of the competent authorities of each party to prevent the entry or stay of citizens and citizens for reasons of national security, the preservation of public order or the protection of public health in accordance with the legislation of its country. Each party may, for the same reason, suspend the application of the agreement, in full or in part, which must be notified by written means, diplomatic channels, no later than 48 hours before the suspension. The last article states that this agreement shall take effect 30 days from the date of submission to diplomatic channels of the last written notice that the parties have completed the necessary procedures for its entry into force. On that day, it will cease to be an current agreement between the Soviet government and the SFRY on the citizens' mutual journey, signed in Moscow on 31 October 1989. Since we assumed that the debate would take place in this course, unfortunately we will not have all this, which was necessary, to hear from the promoters, we have prepared for the citizens of Serbia who are interested in this agenda point, especially for all those citizens who make their bread work in the territory of the Russian Federation. What we could find on the Embassy of the Russian Federation in Belgrade is a press release from February 20th 2009, that in Moscow, the foreign ministers of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Serbia, Mr Lavrov and Mr Jeremic, signed a new agreement. That Agreement shall enter into force on 30 days from the date of receipt of the last written notice. From the moment of entry into force of the agreement, Serbian citizens can enter, exit, travel in transit and stay on Russia's visa-free territory, provided that the period of their continuous stay is not longer than 30 days. In addition, it is very important to bear in mind that Serbian citizens can travel to Russia without visas only on the basis of new, red Serbian passports. For those who possess the old passports of the SRJ, visas will be required. For persons, Russian and Serbian citizens travelling for employment or education, the visa regime will remain in force, i.e. the necessity of obtaining appropriate visas in accordance with the legislation of the country of entry. The Russian Embassy in Belgrade voices confidence that the application of this agreement will significantly facilitate contacts between citizens of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Serbia, also contribute to further improving bilateral relations and developing mutually beneficial co-operation in all areas. Because of this strong belief, we will try to continue the presentation and during this debate on a very important agreement for these two countries, touch the areas of co-operation that we think it is valuable to meet citizens of the Serbian state at what level and at what level are relations between the Russian Federation and the state of Serbia. In the first place, what is significant is that we have received, precisely for this kind of approach, without being technical in nature, which is to improve the relationship between the Russian Federation and Serbia, a mandate of over a million voters who came out in the May elections in 2008, expecting economically done Serbia, but first with the help of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18358	The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has the word, followed by the MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18359	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by saying that the chairman failed to justify the business absence of Mr Vuk Jeremic and the government's representative, and it is hard to imagine that today the representatives of the government would come, because the moment they agree with those with whom they are due to agree on the departure of the Serbian army to the Russian borders, it is difficult to imagine that they will come to the Serbian parliament today and promote Serbian-Russian co-operation. That is why these vacant places for government members are also talking about how the government of the Republic of Serbia understands today's international relations, today's geopolitical situation and how it understands Serbian interests. At first, I'd like to say that this government has slept through an important event. She slept through the 2008 event, that there was no more world to run from a single centre. As one government had previously slept through, also an important event – the destruction of the Berlin Wall. Now, with the paradox of the political situation, the parties that slept through these two important events rule Serbia. These two events – the destruction of the Berlin Wall and what is now happening – resulted in the collapse of the sovereignty of states, the weakening of states, the destruction of international rights and promotion, as was then said, democracy and democratic values. In fact, the consequences of this were weak states, the divergence of national sovereignty, the disintegration of everything considered important for the survival of one nation and one state. It is the Russian Federation, which today concludes an important agreement, in 2008 on two important and large examples, with Serbia's support in preserving its sovereignty – the fight for Kosovo and Metohija and the post-aggression events of Georgia in South Ossetia and Abkhazia – that has shown how and how a fair world order should be established where sovereignty will be respected, where international law will be respected and where the countries will be respected. We now, in this situation, close our eyes to that fact, see that it is those who want to preserve the order that brought the most accidents and casualties to the Serbian people, the Serbian state, that we are now agreeing with them and sending the Serb army to the borders of Georgia. On this occasion, I would like to point out to those who make such a decision that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 140 clearly states that the Serbian Army can be used outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Those who have constitutional powers over the military, the president of the Republic, the foreign minister and the defence minister, if they do so, directly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is not possible to bypass the National Assembly in making such a big decision. I would like to say that at this point, the Russian Federation, with its strength, by its strengthening, by fighting for international law, by fighting for another value that is being avoided in Serbia in all possible ways, by fighting for freedom to choose power by its own will, by the will of its people, indicates that Serbia should not only be seen as political patterns of the West, but also by examples of how the state is being strengthened, how the government is properly formed in the Russian Federation. We, ignoring that fact, not respecting the establishment of a world in which there will be equality of the people, give in to those who have in every way destroyed sovereignty. So we allowed Eulex to come to Kosovo and implement Ahtisaari's plan; so we allowed us to apply unilaterally the SAA, where we directly harm the Serbian economy and the Serbian state; so we gave in to the fact that we are applying the contract with the "Fiita" and not them as the other contractual party; so we gave in to the Russian borders, to the Caucasus, to participate in NATO's pact maneuvers; and we are giving in pressure to continue breaking Serbia, proposing an anti-constitutional statute of Vojvodina. Who do we give in to, what values, what political interests? Instead of seeing that at this point there is no more important for Serbia than to decide for itself what its national and state interests are, to allow its citizens to decide who will rule Serbia, rather than the authorities to decide the foreign forces, to decide the influential tycoons, what the Russian Federation has long been reckoning with. We have the opportunity to develop our co-operation precisely on such political examples and on just such examples, and not on those whom we have been prone to for years. International law, which was the strongest guarantee to defend our sovereignty, our national interests, we ignored. We have now left that those who have brought this international law down for decades, who were not in the interest of it, but the breaking of states, the implementation of the force policy, are now our partners in implementing our national policy. I think the moment that the Serbian state, that the Serbian government is realistically looking at what our national interests are, and the most important national interest of each country is a strong and stable state, is a state of order, is a state that guarantees social rights and all other obligations to its most vulnerable citizens. We have such examples in partnership with the Russian Federation. In that sense, I call on the government of the Republic of Serbia not to send the Serb army to the Russian borders at any time without the consent of the National Assembly, because it participates in a process that can no longer return. There can be no more return of a world ruled from one capital, one state, from one center. The world is moving towards partnership, the world is moving towards collective security, and the call for collective security was sent by Russian Federation President Dmitri Medvedev last year to establish one European security, in line with the co-operation of all European countries and all partners in the world. The DSS will strongly support this bill, but will strongly advocate even wider and stronger ties between the Serbian and Russian people, between Serbia and the Russian Federation, because we also have as a political party an agreement with the political party "United Russia" and all our capacities and all our potentials we will use to strengthen this important partnership for the Serbian state and the Serbian people and thus strengthen our country and, above all, defend our territorial sovereignty and integrity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18360	The word has been given by MP Dejan Radenkovic, followed by Parliament MP Marina Ragus.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office of the State Secretary, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia abolished visas for citizens of the Russian Federation for stay in the Republic of Serbia for up to 90 days. For the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the visa regime for entry and stay in the territory of the Russian Federation and the adoption of this law by emergency procedure would be established an equal regime of entry and stay in the territory of the Contracting States. The signed agreement fully reflects the character of relations between the two countries and will contribute to further development of contacts between citizens of Serbia and Russia. A simpler way of mutual travel, as well as travel to third countries through the territories of other countries, while maintaining the necessary control of the level of entry and residence of nationals of one country on the territory of another country. The agreement expressed the interest of both sides in the development of human ties, which depends on economic, cultural, scientific and other co-operation. What is important, we are confident that this principled support of the Russian Federation ensures Serbia preserves the country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. Our people also know the deepest sense that Russia's support has historical significance for Serbia when it comes to the fight to preserve KIM. What I would like to say in particular, and it may not have anything to do with this subject, to get to know and warn the public that a real war is being waged in Kosovo Mitrovica right now. KFOR forces, with a large amount of tear gas, bomb shock and rubber bullets, attack innocent civilians protesting the construction of these Albanian houses in Kosovo's Mitrovica. They have launched huge forces, so I appeal to KFOR forces, they are under Resolution 1244 there to carry out peace, not to attack innocent Serbs who only defend their hearth. The conflict over the hill dates back to 1999 when the first conflicts took place. The 2000 agreement agreed that they could not rebuild the house without the agreement of both sides. I'm taking this opportunity to get to know the public, once again, over 200,000 displaced Serbs are with KIM. At no time could the international community and the KFOR forces provide Serbs south of Iber to return to their hearths, and now the fama is so high around the five houses in the north. We are witnessing a large number of power outages in Serbian environments throughout KIM, allegedly due to non-payment. Electricity doesn't pay more than 35% of the population in KIM. I just wanted to, I took advantage and I abused a little bit, I wanted to get to know the public that there's really one mess down there, even one young man was wounded with a rubber bullet, there's no further outcome of that whole situation. I am taking the opportunity to get to know the public that the state authorities, the foreign minister and others are taking some steps when it comes to protecting the Serb population there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18362	The word is a folk letter from Marina Ragush, followed by Parliament MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18363	Exactly what is happening in the territory of Kosovo Mitrovica is very important that we cannot only talk about this topic as a technical matter, but rather talk about this matter essentially, because we as a state expect, given the campaign to recognise the independence of KIM, that the Russian Federation uses what are the prerogatives of a real and elevated force and helps Serbia preserve territorial integrity and sovereignty, that is, the right to the life of all citizens in the Serbian territory of Kosovo and Metohija. So what is also very important to know, and it seems to have affected the picture in Serbian opinion, is just a few stages in the development of relations between the Russian Federation and the state of Serbia. What we can talk about today is exactly writing one of the experts and honorary member of SANU Dr Jelena Guskova, who was a witness and an expert hired during the internationalisation of the Yugoslav crisis. She testified firsthand about a campaign aimed at destroying the former Yugoslavia and finally clocking the Serb people at the pre-Khumanov border. According to what Mrs. Guskova writes, concerning Russia's foreign policy in the Balkans in modern conditions, Russia faced the process of globalising the growth of its entities' activities in the early 1990s. I think this is important for the citizens of Serbia to take a brief look at the context of the creation and signing of this agreement. This is the beginning of the 1990s, in terms of the two countries it was actually the hardest time of history of the Russian Federation's collapse. There was no other desire in young Russian diplomacy within the new Russian state, except to build a whole new form of relations with the countries of the West. There was no other strategy but to become an equal member of the international community and as a great country to influence the course of decision-making in Europe. At the time, it was the priority of diplomacy at the time. Russia's foreign policy since the early 1990s has passed a complex path of inactivity, focusing on attempts to mark national interests towards active participation and events in the Balkans. Russia's foreign policy in the Balkan direction since the beginning of the tightening of the SFRY situation has actually taken place in several stages. Given the then government in the Russian Federation has created a certain public opinion on Serbia's territory. The first period was from 1991 to early 1992, related to the Soviet Union, its traditional foreign policy orientation in the last years of the Soviet Union and in the first months after its collapse. The second period is related to 1992, the time of the formation of political structures and the determination of the country's country-wide policy of the Russian Federation. At this time there was no scientific basis and foreign political concept of the Russian state. As a result, politics in certain directions was built quite spontaneously. That's exactly the case with the Balkan politics of Russia. The Balkan problem arose when the country was dominated by an anti-communist patho, when all elements of the foreign policy of the communist past were denied, including spheres of influence when all allies of the former Soviet Union were rejected, as did its opponents. Europe and America have baffled Russia with the ideals of democracy and economic well-being. The foreign minister declared that Russia must strive as a major force to join the family of the most advanced democratic states in the so-called. Western society. The third period of Russia's foreign policy in the Balkan direction is recorded from 1993 to 1995 and is linked to the attempt to include it in the process of regulating the crisis in the territory of the former Yugoslavia as an equal partner of Western states. Russia has fully agreed with their choice through regulation. The basic characteristics of the period became the complete lack of independence of Russia's foreign policy, Russia's diplomacy achieved political activity within the limits it was allowed. Moscow was still trying to capitalise on its historical influence in the Balkans, but was increasingly losing the image of a fair and strong state that cares about balance and measurement in European international relations. The fourth period, between 1996 and 1999, Russia's foreign policy could be called a period of disappointment in rapid integration and the Western system of European values. Russia has stopped being a factor that determines the course of events in the Balkan region. All of us, according to Dr. Guskova, hoped for a sharp turn in foreign policy, linking him to the new foreign minister, Mr. Primakov. Primakov has indicated new parameters for Russia's foreign policy, speaking of them unintrusively. That made a sense of caution. As early as March 1996, he said of active policy in all azimuths, whose goal was to create the most favourable conditions for the preservation of Russia's integrity, to play the role of counterbalances of those negative trends in international affairs, to try to balance those unfavourable moments arising from the dominant role of only one country in the world's international transition from bipolar world to unilateral. Shut down those destabilizing factors that exist in the world and actively participate in the liquidation of conflict situations. By strengthening Mr. Primakov's position and his external political concept is becoming more precise. Russia's diplomacy has been trying to show examples of independence, initiative and activity, and what emerged in the Iraqi crisis, in solving Kosovo's problem, and also in condemning Afghanistan and Sudan by the United States on 20 August 1998. Russia also categorically rejected NATO's application of force in resolving national conflict in July 1998 during the Contact Group meeting in London, an accent in Russia's stance aimed at not allowing NATO to apply force against Yugoslavia. In September 1998, Mr Primakov was removed from his post as minister and appointed Prime Minister. The final and most dramatic period of developments in Kosovo has already been linked to the name of Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov. When the bombing of Yugoslavia began, Russia seemed to have taken an active position, but it could not maintain a later solid course. We must pay attention that during only two months of the most difficult for the Balkans, Russia's attitude has changed several times. The Russian Federation's top leadership was not safe in its moves and hesitated. First, he was exhibited, though inconsistencies, an attempt at independence within the limits of obedience, an even timid threat of force. It ended with Russia playing the role of the pressure and intimidation instrument of Yugoslavia, just like NATO's variant. Mr. Chernomidin's appointment as president of Russia to regulate the situation around the SRJ has shown to America that Russia will not oppose NATO's plans. The fifth period since 2000, Russia's foreign policy has finally been linked to the name of the new president of Russia, Mr Putin. The essence of our political view in the Balkans at the time, according to Dr. Guskova, could be expressed in the words of Mr. Putin in June 2001. "The strategic importance of Southeast Europe is defined for Russia not only by geopolitical factors, but also by historical traditions, cultural, religious closeness of our peoples, as well as by the geographical proximity of this region and the Russian border. Its policy for the Balkan course of Russia fits into the common context of creating a stable, democratic system of common European security. The main task is to achieve a region of solid, fair peace, secure security and stability based on fundamental principles of international law and, of course, international community decisions. First of all, I have in mind the Dayton Agreement, Resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations 1244." Mr Putin then appeared publicly with the initiative to conclude agreements with countries in the region, but also among countries on mutual recognition of sovereignty and territorial integrity. At the time, he thought of strengthening Russia's economic presence in the region. However, during that period, the Balkans was not the main direction of Russia's foreign policy. With the new president, they began to design, develop, build and implement the general principles of foreign policy of Russia in the 21st century. This is all what we should have heard from the motionary's representative. Unfortunately, that's not an opportunity, which is why we're talking about it now. So, starting in 2000, Russia's main foreign policy task was to activate Russian diplomacy in all the basic world policies, to form a real foreign policy course. Such a course had to become even more initiative and even more dynamic. The realisation of the real impact on the course of events in the world in line with Russia's national interests, the expansion of the circle of our partners and like-minded people in the world, the leadership of the Russian Federation wanted Russia's voice in the world to have its weight and precision after so many years of the collapse of the Soviet Union, especially in terms of solving crisis situations. Soon a concept of Russia's foreign policy was drawn up, which for the first time highlighted the country's national interests. The main among national interests is security, strengthening Russian statehood, growing the well-being of the people, developing democracy and civil society. It is very important for Russia to organise systematic resistance to international terrorism, organised crime, drug threats, human trafficking, illegal and illegal arms trafficking. Russia also comes forward against the militarisation of cosmic space, the spread of weapons of mass destruction and its reaching into the hands of terrorists. As a lawyer, Mr Putin also advocates the principle of primacy of international law in all international organisations, relying on the UN organisation's statutes, as well as on solving key global problems based on multilateral co-operation. There is now no major international problem, whether it is the issue of countering new threats, regulating conflicts and crises, strategic stability, updating the process of globalisation, in which the solution has not been and will not be hired by the Russian Federation. Taking into account developments in the Balkans, Russia has consistently advocated that the UN organisation remains the central body of the entire system of international relations. This does not diminish the importance of different international institutions that should form a system of international relations in the 21st century. The brief review of the Russian Federation's relations with the Balkan issue, and thus also towards the state of Serbia, was necessary to understand that a force, which they tried to force to put to sleep, woke up, stood on both legs and stood in the protection of Serbian national interests. We are also witnessing that on the basis of the Yugoslav crisis and the continuing killing of the Serbian national issue, the entire architecture of international institutions and the world's position as we know it is changing. What will continue on the Kosovo problem will actually be resisting the neoliberal occupation of the US and Brussels administration. What is true, two concepts will finally conflict in Serbia's territory and across Serbia's territory, and it is up to us to identify which one will bring Serbia first in economic recovery. One Brusselsian and Washingtonian, which definitely means a neoliberal occupation, a shut down of sovereignty and a removal of territorial integrity, and another, the eastern path of the Russian Federation, which means recognition of territorial integrity, sovereignty, the right to statehood and economic recovery of the state of Serbia. So, this agreement for Serbian citizens, when it comes to the brotherly Russian-Slovenian people, is never, nor will it be only technically, but, as you can see, a fundamental issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18364	Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, I am informing the National Assembly, and on the basis of Article 85(5), that we will be working today after 18 hours of debate on a point that is on the agenda at that time and with a delayed television broadcast. If there is any change in information, I will inform the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this government that already has an epithet in the people, deeply rooted, as incompetent, has finally delivered to us a proposal for a ratification law, which we can all vote on in this assembly, but unfortunately, at the first step has brought this assembly back to one unpleasant situation, the humiliation of the Assembly continues, as unfortunately this very important agreement does. Ms. Nada Kolundžija, as representative of the ZES parliamentary group, because we have advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because in these 20 places where the Prime Minister and ministers are to sit, no one has sat down, Mr. Secretary of State later came, no one has explained the importance to us, which is otherwise the government's duty to do, this law, has tried to blame us for saying that in such a way it reduces the importance of this agreement to transfer to us who have advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The government that doesn't sit here and that doesn't seem to show that it's behind this agreement, is the one that diminishes the importance of this agreement. It was completely naive to think that we were sending the wrong message, be assured that both in Washington and Brussels, and in London, and especially in Moscow, a picture arrived, and they whispered about what happened here at 1200 hours, even if none of us had spoken, it would have been well known in all these countries and in all these centers, and especially in Moscow. We said this primarily because of Serbian citizens who have the only transmission of this National Assembly, as an opportunity to hear the real truth about what is going on in Serbia, since the ruling coalition, unfortunately, continues via electronic media that controls, and most written ones, deceives citizens as it did a year ago, when the election campaign began, as it is now. But not being present here, it tells me that this government should deserve another epithet not only of an incompetent government, but also of a government that came with only two ministers on Friday when the budget was being discussed, and everything else in the media was more important, all the other news that day than that debate on the budget, it says that the government is not behind what it is doing, that it is hiding and that in some way even the cowardly government. It is said here that we must look at the interest of the Serbian citizens, as Mrs Kolundzia also said when we make decisions. Well, of course, that's why we're going to vote for this law by the DSS, because all economic indicators, all economic experts in the world, say to the public, the United States or the EU is no news, now, in mid-2009, show that in the 21st century, economic development carriers of the whole economy of the world will be so-called. BRIC countries, i.e. Brazil, Russia, India and China, and then, of course, it's our interest with such countries, and of course with Russia, to sign these agreements, to ratify them in parliament and start applying them and working on it. God forbid there's more. It is also indicative that all these four countries that I have listed have supported our efforts, although something else should have been done, but this authority has decided to seek an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice in The Hague, but it is interesting that these four countries, Brazil, Russia, India and China, have supported Serbia in that court, have given their opinion, which supports Serbia's position in that court, and the US and Great Britain, for example, have done the opposite. The foreign policy of this country, represented by two people in the country, Mr Tadic and Mr Jeremic, is doing everything to Serbia's harm. Since the day the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed, the situation in our southern Serbian province of KIM has been growing worse and worse since that day. We warned that would happen. The SPS gentlemen are now saying what is happening in Kosovo Mitrovica, but they have stepped behind the agreement, they have stepped behind EULEX's bringing to Kosovo, and now they are asking the state to react in Kosovo, and the state itself is tying its hands with such decisions. The same state, we heard on October 5th 2008 from US Ambassador Cameron Manter that Mr. Jeremic promised that Serbia would agree that Eulex would come to Kosovo. Later we heard, there were MPs who tried to deceive the public and say that Russia voted for something at the Security Council session when a decision was made on Eulex, so neither Russia nor America. No one voted because it wasn't decided. It was a presidential statement on the basis of an agreement signed by the government without our decision and without this Parliament's decision as part of Resolution 1244. No one for these alleged six points, and French Ambassador Tevel tells us that it's not six but 53 and that these six can't be separated from these 53 when it comes to the engagement of EULEX in Kosovo. What do we got? We've got chaos and we've got what Ahtisaari's plan envisions, making a NATO state not a kiM with the help of Eulex. It's a foreign policy that's being run, and in all this time Russia has been supporting us and today it supports us in efforts, and without anything, it doesn't ask for anything in return for what it's doing. It doesn't work because it's brotherland, which it is, but it does because it's justice and justice, and it helps us in that way. So they support us all the time, all the time, they're behind our diplomatic activities. What are we doing? Six months ago, apparently constitutionality, that now, a few days before the exercise begins, the government is making a decision to have our soldiers participate in NATO exercises in Georgia, whether two or two hundred. Mr. Palalic said well, based on article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia cannot make such a decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is making a decision to hire the Army of the Republic of Serbia and its members abroad. That paper never came here. We asked the Prime Minister on Thursday, he was sitting here when that decision was made, who made it. A man sits and shuts up, won't answer. During that time, ministers in the government, Sutanovac and Jeremic, who are responsible for such a thing, are again fighting. So we're sending our soldiers to the border with Russia. Who are we helping? With whom we want to participate in these exercises, regardless of what we have decided on military neutrality and that Serbia will not be a member of any military alliance, and currently there is only one in the world, it is a NATO pact, no other military alliance in the world exists, and I am sure that the world would be a much better place for life if there were no military alliance. That other one that stayed when it went off, we have nothing to look for as a state, that same alliance only ten years ago, it wasn't that long ago, remember, it bombed us. Then their spokesman Jamie Shay said – Serbs should be quietly bombed, all of this will soon be forgotten. Four years later, in 2004, when the Albanians again attacked the Serbs in Kosovo and Russia stood by us again, the same Jamie Shay said those people are rebelling because they are unemployed, because 70% of the people are unemployed in Kosovo, because there is high social pressure on the temporary Kosovo institutions. That was the answer to the NATO Pact, that was the U.S. response, that was the answer to Brussels, London to what was going on down there in 2004. Today in the world because of the global economic crisis, according to some indicators, 20 million people are out of work. There's a lot of social pressure on all the countries in the world. I don't know that someone's burning other people's graves, that someone's burning up other people's monasteries, churches, houses and banishing people because they're hard to live for. It was then, and today is a lie. And day and day, we bear the consequences, I've already told you about this assembly speaker, the direct consequences. Only cancer dies almost twice as many people, infertile marriages, spontaneous abortions, deadborn children, children born with severe defects, little Nikolina born without eyes. No one from that NATO pact has ever said I'm sorry. At that time, an independent G17 expert group said the damage was $30 billion since the bombing. No one's ever offered a penny to help because of what they did. They never showed any remorse about what they did, and now we are making a decision of the unconstitutional, incompetent and cowardly government of the Republic of Serbia to send soldiers to the border with Russia. Who did it, Jeremic, Sutanovac, Cvetkovic, Tadic? It doesn't matter. The explanation is – this is an action within the framework of the Partnership for Peace. So what – in the framework of the Partnership for Peace can we choose what we will participate in, what projects will we support, what will we not? It's not our obligation to participate, not one. The partnership for peace should remain, because it is, for example, and Russia there, but to say that the withdrawal is now, after the pressure of the public, that they will withdraw, and there is that in the media – that they should withdraw these soldiers for saving, it is absolutely ridiculous. I've been looking days in the media at an explanation -- that it's cheaper for Serbia to enter the NATO Pact, so Serbia has economic benefits than that, and now we don't want to send two soldiers to Georgia for savings. You're always contradictory. That's not true. Look at the Romanian indicators and you'll see that NATO's pact costs more, precisely because of missions like this. There is nothing Serbia can ask for, no Serb soldier in those who organise such exercises, nowhere in the world in my opinion, and especially at the border with Russia -- ever. Whoever wants to go after a handful of bloody dollars can do it through the Legion of Honor, can go as a mercenary or as a legionnaire, but cannot go under the markings of the army of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. We will support this law from the DSS, but we warn you, although we think it's time that you don't do anything else, but to resign and get out of the way, because you're completely incapable of running this country, and you show it every day, that you don't make any more mistakes like this. Until you've retired and come to your senses to return the country's foreign policy to the course on which it was, as Mrs. Hope Kolundji said, by March 2008, when all this started to work. It started a long time ago, but the first paper we did was in March 2008, and now we're done. It is better to return to that course than to waste time, position and weaken Serbia in this way, which is done by the incompetent Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18366	MP Dejan Radenkovic. You want a replica based on the mention of part of your exposure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18367	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable President and citizens of Serbia, you have just had the opportunity to see pure political demagogy by members of a political party. Last February, when KIM's independence was declared, no one asked the Serbian state's leadership about KIM. On the day of the declaration of independence, the KIM prime minister did not find it appropriate to land on KIM but then called on the presidents of municipalities, the co-ordinators of the time, and we know well that there were double co-ordinators, to come to Belgrade to give them moral support. Some other political parties held a press conference. This is the pure, petty collection of political points when you're in opposition. When the SPS was in power, when Resolution 1244 was adopted, then we were accused of capitulating, of selling Kosovo. You were full of mouths that Slobodan Milosevic and SPS sold Kosovo. When you came to power, the only straw of salvation was Resolution 1244 and today we all swear on Resolution 1244. The proof of your government regarding KIM, don't, and I've said a hundred times that I don't want the public to deal with it. This should be done by the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia. For patriotism, you filled your pockets. You're not ashamed and you're still talking about Kim. Don't talk about it anymore. You have no moral right to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18368	National MP Dragan Shormaz, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18369	First, I have to ask you, on the basis of article 27, to keep an eye on – it is said here that someone was filling their pockets. Who was filling their pockets? Who? Shame on you! Who are you talking to? Based on what? Hiding behind immunity now? Who was where the 17th -- the entire DSS parliamentary club was in Kosovo that day, and all ministers in the government were in Kosovo that day. I didn't talk when you were talking. Try to be brought up, besides telling the truth. Who ever said in front of the DSS that Resolution 1244 is not a good thing, ever? During the bombing, we've been attacking NATO all along, remember a little bit. As a result, it was the highest and jumped the rating to Vojislav Kostunica and broke Slobodan Milosevic after that in the elections. Therefore, do not say things that do not stand. The DSS has never criticised Resolution 1244. Talk to those who sit in government right now, talk to them about it. So, we spoke then and now we say that according to Resolution 1244, KIM belongs to Serbia, and otherwise to history, in the roots, according to the Constitution of the Serbian State, Kosovo is ours and will always be ours. Say it, if you may. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18370	Right on the line, MP Dejan Radenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18371	Mr. Shormaz, I really have no reason to argue with you here, time will show you everything. Time will show everything, and that's pure political demagogy, I'm going back to it again, full of Kosovo's mouth. Don't say that. Let's do something together. We need unity when it comes to kim. Don't say that - Kostunica beat Slobodan Milosevic because the resolution was good. No, you attacked everyone that we capitulated, don't say that. Don't mention it now, and then your party president, when he called the community of Serb municipalities, when he was fenced from their announcements. Don't let me take it out of your paper, so we can read it here and prove who it is and what it's saying. The SPS didn't say anything wrong with KIM for a moment, and it remained consistent in the fight to preserve KIM. We have succeeded and supported this government, which has managed to bring KIM back to diplomatic level with its ties in Europe, that we have support and that we have reduced the number, even below all expectations of Albanians, how many countries have recognised KIM independence. If it had remained the kind of policy you led, all countries today would have recognised an independent KIM. (The disdain of DSS MPs.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18372	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz – right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18373	So what Vojislav Kostunica was doing for Kosovo is saying and the results of the election in KIM always, he says and when he leaves today, several thousand people welcome him when he shows up, and that's what the media is hiding -- that your government controls here, but it doesn't matter. Besides, people will see it, it doesn't matter. That's the point now. No one slows down, I never said, or when I said that the SPS was saying something bad against Kosovo? It doesn't matter who says what they say, but it matters who does what they do. That's what they should look at. What have you done? You brought Eulex, sir. You stand behind it? You've brought Eulex, and now you're complaining about shooting at people down there with rubber bullets, and who knows maybe firearms, shock bombs, tear gas, etc. You agreed to Eulex come down. You've agreed to reduce the UN's jurisdiction. You agreed that the courts would come, that the prosecutor would come, that Eulex would make Albanians, who were unable to make a state down there, because they called that state, supported by their NATO pact, by criminals -- you allowed Eulex to come and make a real state for them. You cannot hide from it in words. They speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18374	The word was sought by MP Nenad Popovic, and the basis for looking for the words of replicas based on the mention of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18375	Mr. Radenkovic, you're a young man and it's a shame you're so scarred. Your party supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica for three years. Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS have done everything and have proved that Kosovo is an indivisible part of Serbia. The most important document in this country, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, was brought during the government of Prime Minister Kostunica. You don't have to prove it's black and black, white and white. Everyone knows the position of DSS and President Kostunica in relation to KIM and everyone knows our position, that Kosovo was, is and will be an indivisible part of the Republic of Serbia. Everyone knows the Eulex mission made to implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan. Marty Ahtisaari's plan creates an independent Kosovo, and that's one through one. There's no talking here. There are no six points. You don't get six dots. This government unilaterally implements a six-point deal, all unilaterally implements. I don't want to rephrase to you personally, you're a young man, there's time, but you shouldn't be scarred. There's one thing I'd like to suggest to you, esteeming your future work. I would not deal with the opposition, I would deal with the government of the Republic of Serbia. Prime Minister Cvetkovic was not in Kosovo for a year for a single time, Mr Radenkovic, not once. Because this government will try and it will certainly happen, by accepting Eulex has practically accepted Marty Ahtisaari's plan. You don't get six dots. That's what everyone said. You could have recently read in the list "The Seal", whose editor-in-chief, Mr. Vucelic, is one document, I think the letter is from an EU representative, I think it was addressed to Mr. Solana, where it is spoken of. So please, there's no need for anyone around KiM to prove what's going on out there. The Democratic Party of Serbia has always been very clear in its positions, and therefore many countries have been against us and have helped us leave power. What I want to say once again, talk to your colleagues in the government, ministers have forgotten Kosovo. No one remembers when some minister was last at KIM and the prime minister never once. I think that's, if we really want to help. ..the fundamental problem of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18376	National MP Dejan Radenkovic, right on line and please close the circle of replicas. I hope the exchange explains who said what, so please use this right carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18377	This is going to be the last one. I have no intention of moving in with the entire DSS Parliament Club on the subject of KIM. I will only list a few examples for informing Serbian citizens. When you were in power, the KIM minister was not from Kosovo, State Secretary Prorokovic was not with KIM. You, Mr. Popovic, were the head of the KIM expert team. You had the whole team. No man was with KIM. What are the results of your work? Until today, I haven't been able to get any information on what this expert team you led. You're not with Kim either. No, it's not the government, the ministers didn't go down. It was degutantly during the previous period when the minister of education was more involved in KIM, so he doesn't even know where his ministry headquarters is. Don't say that. Declaratively, no support is given to that people. Declarative battle for KiM is not a good example. Working in the field, working with people. We need these people to help us, and we're doing everything we can. We don't raise our halabuca in public. You'll see the results after a while, who did what. Don't make any more noises. I'm putting an end to it, and I'm not gonna answer it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18378	Right to replication based on direct reference, MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18379	Dear Mr. Radenkovic, without intent, you are a young man, there is still plenty of water to go through to do something in life, and you are already scarred, it is bad for your future political career. You have to do something in life first. Secondly, let me tell you, I was not the head of the expert team, but the head of the economic team for KIM, who, without a single dinar, worked for free, for two years and brought a strategy for the economic development of Serbian communities to KIM, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you also supported as an official document. Many people, young people, economists with KIM worked on the economic team. I want to tell you one more thing, you have to have a goal in life, and when you say someone's not with KIM, you probably want something to achieve that goal. I have to say, my Popovci are from KIM. We don't live in KIM, but we're from KIM. It's written in monastery books. We run the origins from there and we all run the origins here with Kim, all of us. We are all, Mr. Radenkovic, with KIM and we are proud of what the government of Prime Minister Kostunica and DSS did for KIM. That's what we'll do in the future for the rest of our lives. Kosovo has been, and will be an inseparable part of Serbia and all illegal things, such as the Eulex or the Martti Ahtisaari plan, we will never admit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18380	We're continuing our work on our application for word. The word is a folk letter from Marina Ragush, followed by the messenger of the people, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18381	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens, again about what Mr. Popovic mentioned earlier, but here's how I relax this debate, we just need to determine whose descendants we are, whether Mr. Vuk Brankovic or Lazar Hrebeljanović, and then God let us all rejoice. Why am I talking about this this way? There were always two concepts throughout Serbia's history. One who saw Serbia as a strong national state, economically stable enough to resist pressures on the side and another who saw Serbia as part of something that should be a European plan to organise political power. Through the history of Serbian statehood, with all these different colors, we can recognize these very two concepts. One East and one West. History has, and here in our case is confirmed very often, unfortunately most painfully, because we don't take lessons, here history repeats itself in the most dramatic way. What we should have heard from the proposing representatives, and yet on this important topic which has proved to be not a technical but essential issue when it comes to the position of the Serbian state and it is good to have this debate, because at the end of the context of the conflict of two dogmas, two opinions, two concepts and two approaches, we should find the best possible way for the state of Serbia and improve the lives of all of us. What is very important is the practical issue, finally the foreign trade co-operation of the Serbian state with the Russian Federation. It must be said that Russia is Serbia's first foreign policy, or foreign trade partner. During 2008, the value of the exchange of goods reached $4 billion, which is a 46% increase compared to 2007. Despite increasing bilateral relations between the two countries and increasing trade liberalisation, the Serbian deficit towards Russia is still very high. The reason is high energy dependence, as more than 90% of Russia's imports make energy, thus signing an oil-gas deal with Russia late last year was an extremely important step in intensifying the two countries' economic co-operation. Serbian-Russian economic co-operation last year marked the signing of an energy arrangement, as I said. What is very important is that, on the basis of this, Serbia can indeed become a leader in the region when it comes to the oil industry. Also, the project is of particular importance for Serbia in the next 30 years and perhaps 50 years from the point of view of energy security and industrial development, as well as Serbia's strategic positions towards the EU and the Russian Federation. By passing the "South Stream" pipeline's international work through Serbian territory, as well as by equipping a gas storage facility in the Banatski dvor, Serbia will certainly and unequivocally strengthen its position of accession and step up economic co-operation with what the ruling majority has set as a course. With this debate, we want to point out how important the gas agreement was for the state of Serbia. Also last year, several more important steps were taken to boost Serbia-Russia's economic co-operation, a Serbian-Russian business council was formed, a signed agreement on business dialogue, according to the head of the Russian Federation's diplomatic mission, Mr. Konuzin. Mr. Konuzin also believes that each of these structures should find its place in overcoming the difficulties of placing goods on both markets. Russia is a huge market, and therefore it is necessary to unite small businesses. As the SRS, we believe that there is indeed our chance for the recovery of the Serbian economy. Also, Mr Konuzin advocates different forms of co-operation between the region in the Russian Federation and Serbia, as well as between companies dealing with related activities. Special importance in the future bilateral co-operation of the two countries will be energy, traffic, agriculture and banking. Russia is also the first Serbian partner when it comes to imports and in the past year, it reached about three billion dollars. Among import products 90% of oil and gas, large shares have aluminium, copper wire, ammonium nitrate for explosives. On the demanding Russian market, Serbia exports the most undercoats, medicines, trailers, cardboard products, laboratory equipment, machines, copper pipes, and from food products from apples, frozen fruit and vegetables. The long-standing implementation of the free trade agreement between the two countries contributes to the liberalisation of the area. At the latest meeting of the interstate committee, held at the end of the year in Moscow, the Serbian side suggested that cars, furniture, home appliances and rubber products be found on the list of goods not subject to customs duties. In the first half of 2009, the two countries are expected to sign a new protocol extending the list of duty-free exchanges. What is also very important to say in the context of the trade exchange of goods between the Russian Federation and the state of Serbia, we expected to hear it from the proposing representatives, but unfortunately or fortunately we are talking about it. The head of the Russian Federation's trade representation in Serbia, Mr. Jevgeny Kudinov, said some time ago that the free trade protocol, which would allow the release of customs duties on goods from Serbia, should soon be signed and said Russia is interested in investing in the food industry and agriculture. Very important data, given the spilling of the global financial crisis on the state of Serbia, and yet in the context of the debate that we started on budget rebalances. Mr. Kudinov also said he expects a meeting of representatives of the Serbian government and Russian officials will soon take place and a protocol on free trade should then be signed, after which goods from Serbia will be released from customs duties. This is also a very important fact, a very important fact for the budget rebalancing debate, and we also expected to hear from the proposing representatives. According to the head of the Russian Federation's trade representative in Serbia, the meeting will also discuss oil industry, economic co-operation and other issues. It noted that customs duties will also release meat processing, slaughterhouses, sausages, confectionery products, beer, medicines, freezers, refrigerators, wooden office furniture. Then asked the question – whether there is a chance that the list should be extended with a significant issue for "Fiyat", with cars, and very important for Serbia, textile products, it is responsible that the protocol should first be signed, the job followed, and what he also mentioned was Mr. Shojgu's statement that, as far as cars are concerned, Russia will provide the necessary conditions for the Serbian brand, not for a brand that only happens in Serbia, and is signed by a foreign producer. It also noted at that time that Russian companies are interested in investing in the food industry, agriculture, saying that Serbia achieved only fruit and vegetables worth more than $50m last year. Mr. Kudinov also said that any product can find its buyer in Russia. What is necessary over time is that this product has a quality and a proper price. It has been estimated that Serbia has an excellent food industry when it comes to the needs of the Russian Federation, and agriculture, noting that these are the only two branches that will not have a drop in production, regardless of the global financial crisis. This is also a very important piece of information for Serbian citizens and for the Serbian economy. What Mr. Kudinov also said, that this year Russian companies are even investing in agriculture, fruit and vegetables, to have a safe source of these products for placement on the Russian market. The head of Russia's trade representation also reminded that a few weeks ago, Gazprom entered the NIS. He also talked about it, when it comes to mutual co-operation between the state of Serbia and the Russian Federation, at least when it comes to the areas concerned, there is no fear that it will stop. We should have heard that too from the proposing representatives, and then the picture of Russian-Serbian relations would have been more complete. What we have to say, and it's inescapably important, also for this agreement that will enable people who are connected to Russia in this way, is that Russia's economy today is one of the most prospective, with huge expansion opportunities in many areas. This has also been seen by many European and world companies. There are few countries where such sales growth rates can be achieved, the results of which are achieved in the Russian Federation. A growing number of companies are moving from Moscow to Russia's regions where much more favourable conditions are for starting jobs, starting from economic, to administrative. For the citizens of Serbia, who think they overcome any way of the effects of the financial crisis and to provide themselves with the existence, improve the economy of the Serbian state, it is very important to conclude that Russia today is a very suitable country for business, a country where there is a high degree of competition, an unfavourable competitive struggle. The Russian Federation is the largest country per area in the world, with a population of 145 million, a highly educated workforce, a rich natural wealth, has huge economic potential. In 1991, Russia launched reforms aimed at transforming the centralised economy into a free market system. The changes included a comprehensive privatisation process, so now more than 75% of the Russian economy is privately owned. In the last eight years, a constant growth in gross domestic product, which averaged 6.7% annually, has been recorded. Employees' earnings grew faster than inflation, so it was continued growth. When it comes to trade exchange between Russia and Serbia, excellent bilateral co-operation, which occasionally violates certain political decisions, testifys. In only last year, trade co-operation amounted to more than 2.4 billion dollars, up from 300m dollars, as it was in 2000. Serbia's deficit in 2006 was 1.8 billion dinars, as said, precisely because of imports of energy from Russia. What is also important for Serbian citizens, who are considering starting jobs in the territory of the Russian Federation, using the benefits of this agreement, to export goods to the Russian market requires the possession of certificates. The certificate is a form of origin of goods. The certificate shall be issued by the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia or by authorised customs offices. In order to benefit from free trade regime privileges, it is necessary to have a pink form certificate, while a yellow-colored certificate is required for the preferences regime. All standard documents, cargo sheets and long, as well as Russian quality certificates are required, regardless of whether companies already have any of the ISOs or other standards. Any goods to be delivered to Russia must be certified by this standard. The company can verify the products itself, but also complete production. Certificates are obtained from Russian houses, and additional information is obtained from the Standardisation Agency or the Russian Embassy Trade Representation. When it comes to, and very importantly, again in the context of the agreement that we are talking about today, business practices, speaking of the current business problem in Russia, it should be pointed out that today, foreign entrepreneurs have to invest a lot of money and effort in winning the market where all the world's multinational companies have been positioned. For example, it should be pointed out that one minute of advertising on some Moscow television is about $25,000. It therefore advises entrepreneurs to place their products in some of the smaller cities within Russia, which will be easier and cheaper. Companies must also make sure that their production can meet the needs of the large market, where there must be room for quality Serbian products, such as food and furniture products. So what is also very important to say is that business policy is quite strict, that the foreign investor is practically in the same position as the Russian producer or investor. However, the Russians encourage each investor to invest differently, which is the protection of domestic producers. To successfully work and participate in major programmes of the state and its funds, you must be a domestic producer. Significant changes in recent years in Russia have also led to changes in business. In the business of Russian partners there is a very high level of technology, and the Internet is equally used. If anyone would like to have any more concrete relationship in the field of foreign trade with the Russian Federation, what they should certainly know is that, in addition to the embassy of the Russian Federation, the most important Russian institutions in Serbia are: the Russian Embassy trade representative, the Russian Federation's Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Russian House. During the debate on very important draft laws that should allow for better economic development of the Serbian state, we spoke and compared the concept, i.e. two completely different concepts, in terms of the concept that the EU places on the Serbian market and the concepts that the Russian Federation places. In the context of this, we, thanks to the writing of fellow Mr Dejan Mirovic, who is constantly investigating this topic, have actually made a parallel to how Serbian firms can deal with large companies that come from EU territory, and on the other hand how our companies and our businesses pass in the Russian Federation. With this in mind, what should be mentioned is that the company "Ivan Milutinović – PIM" signed a contract in July 2008 alone on the construction of a port in the town of Primorsk on the Azov Sea in Russia, worth 360m euros. Belgrade's Advanced signed a contract in August 2008 on the construction of a shopping centre in the capital of the Republic of Koma, worth $45m. At the same time, it also builds a $70m hotel in the Jaroslav area. These are, in fact, economic indicators and economic facts that are not so easy to play with. It also says that the topic of relations and any agreement should not be a technical issue, that any disturbance of these relations directly means jeopardising the economic and social stability of citizens who traditionally work and co-operate with the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, about what Serbian citizens would be extremely interested in, we expected to hear from the proposing representatives, who, unfortunately, had not yet appeared at 3:10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18382	The word is from MP Djordje Milicevic, the last registered speaker, and according to statements for a word in the debate, in the principle of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18383	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all a few words about the recent debate. There is no doubt that the question of KIM is all questions. I fully agree that political acuity is not needed when we talk about issues that are of national and state interest to Serbia. Of course, we need a consensus on the KiM of all relevant factors on the political scene of Serbia. The SPS has repeatedly said this as a representative of the opposition, and at times when we supported the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica and today as representatives of Serbia's parliamentary majority. I would also like to say that there is no doubt that the basis for finding a compromise solution on the subject of KIM Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council, the positive policy course of KIM 1990s led by the SPS. As far as the agreement today is concerned, which is on the agenda of the Republic's parliament, of course, that the confirmation of this extremely important agreement cannot be characterised as technical, but as an essential issue. That's where I fully agree with my colleague Ragush. I will draw a few details from the very agreement that has already been discussed, and I believe that they are of paramount importance. First of all, I would like to say that the SPS-JS parliamentary club will support the Agreement on the conditions of mutual travel between the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Russian Federation, above all because we believe that the friendly relations between the two countries should be deepened, on the one hand, and, of course, it should go towards simplifying the way the citizens of Russia and Serbia travel. That Agreement shall enter into force on 30 days from the date of receipt of the last written notification by diplomatic means that the parties have carried out the internal procedures necessary for its entry into force. This implies that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must previously ratify the agreement. Also, I would like to say that, from the moment of entry into force of this agreement, which has already been said, Serbian citizens will be able to enter, exit, travel and stay in Russia's visa-free territory, provided that the period of their continuous stay is not longer than 30 days. Of course, the same principle applies to Russian citizens when travelling to Serbia. As has already been said, the exception is to citizens with diplomatic or official passports, for which the visa-free regime applies maximum to continuous stay for up to 90 days, as far as I can see. When it comes to citizens referred to diplomatic and consular representations, and that has already been said, when it comes to their families, as well as international organisations’ representations, they can certainly enter, exit, transit and stay without a visa in another country throughout the period of validity of their accreditation. As for persons travelling for employment or education, the visa regime will remain in force, of course, in accordance with the legislation of the country of entry. The reason for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, in order to establish an equal regime of entry and stay in the territory of the Contracting States, is in our opinion fully justified. Of course, economic and cultural, but also scientific co-operation, which has already been discussed, can be related to this agreement in a certain way. In addition to essential importance, it should be stressed that the adoption of this Agreement would replace the provisions of the agreement in force so far in this area, signed on 31 October 1989, and it is perfectly logical that the provisions of this Agreement have been overcome and do not reflect the needs of the development of mutual relations and do not comply with the legislation of both countries. Once again, I would like to emphasise, at the very end, the SPS-JS parliamentary club in the voting day will be given a positive statement on the proposed agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18384	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want to speak to the president, or to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word will be delivered by the Parliament of the People Marina Ragus, followed by the MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18385	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens, I am really glad that we agree with our ruling coalition colleagues that this issue is a couple of excellencies and that it cannot be brought down to just a technical question. It is important to note, then, that it is of great importance that the debate in this course is on this subject and is allowed just as an exchange of arguments and concepts. In this final part of the remaining part of the time foreseen for the SRS parliamentary group, and in the first place thanks to the exhaustive, continuous and dedicated work of my colleague Mr Mirovic, we are in a position to use and compare certain concrete economic indicators that actually speak for themselves. What is of great importance, and yet in the context of both economic and economic power, all other powers are being drained. It is very important that we have a picture with which the Russian Federation still has significant co-operation and that Serbia, as a state, with huge problems of political and economic nature, can count. In this context, it should be said that Russia has good relations with Iran, whose shares in world supplies reach 26, 74% or about 15 cubic metres, with Qatar, whose shares in world supplies reach about 26%, with Saudi Arabia, whose stakes reach about 7%, with Algeria whose share in world supplies is about 5%, with Venezuela whose stake reaches 5%, with Turkmenistan, whose share in world supplies reaches 3%. It wouldn't be a surprise if an announcement about the creation of a global gas cartel were made in the next period. Economic data also show that almost all of the EU in 2006 depended on Russian gas supplies. In Bulgaria, Finland, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia's dependence was 100%, in Turkey 78%, in Austria in January 2008 an agreement was signed on the takeover of a 50% gas storage facility in Austria by Gazprom. This warehouse is the third largest in Europe and was envisaged as an important point for the pipeline: 78% in Hungary, 76% in the Czech Republic, 75% in Poland, 66% in Croatia, 65% in Romania, 63% in Slovenia, 51% in Germany, 40% in Italy, 31% in France. So 32 countries of the world import gas from Gazprom. The Russian firm owns 156,000km of pipeline network, and 514.000km of distribution networks supply Russians. Also, all those who are truly on the side of a fully-versed concept of accession and exclusively co-operation with EU countries, what we expected to be a bit of a waver and possibly a little wider perspective, is the opinion of a number of experts. So, according to the example, Vojin Vuletic, Secretary General of the Association for Gas of Serbia, Russia has an extremely well built infrastructure from northwestern Siberia to the interior, which account for more than 20 master pipelines of about 5,000 km. Expansive and magnificent infrastructure gives great power. Mr. Dragan Nedeljkovic, editor of the Energo portal site, points out that Russia is an energy force, where that force draws its political position and its political power. Not only does it have large energy reserves, but it's specific that everything it uses makes up very quickly for finding new sites. What could have been found if we were looking at our neighbouring countries, and yet in the context of what is a one-way view of the EU, let's say, the director of the London-based oil land gas consulting company told the Croatian magazine "National", Russia was in front of bankruptcy ten years ago, and today the third in the world is on foreign reserve and thanks to energy. Russia is controlled by huge amounts of oil and gas and has the whole of Europe in its hands. The companies under Russian government's control are expected to move more seriously towards Europe. From our neighbouring countries, not only are Serbian or Russian sources, Croatian journalists and experts stress, the Serbian oil industry will be in a much better position than the Croatian INA, because it will get a strategic partner and, as important as the agreement that has been ratified here, one of the strongest partners in the oil and gas business. In this regard, it should not be doubted that Serbia's political influence in the future will be significantly greater than it is today. The INA for a strategic partner has a Hungarian "Mol", which cannot be measured with the Russian giant, and for years it has been dependent on Lukoil, another Russian oil company. It also concludes that Serbia has won a strong partner, both in energy and in political terms. This is what we expected to hear from the promoter's representative. What is it? It's here. In this context, Mr. Alexei Miller, chairman of the Gazprom Management Board, said -- this job will allow Serbia to fully resolve all its energy issues. Serbia is becoming a major European gas transit and storage centre, while at the same time providing safe supplies for natural gas, oil and oil processing. Also, just to add to the findings of experts, Mr Dragomir Jankovic of the European Economic Institute believes that the agreement with Russia is good and that it is not contrary to the policy and dogmoma chosen by the ruling majority. It is said that the EU itself is making deals with Russia on gas, there is no obstacle for Serbia to sign the agreement with Russia, because Bulgaria, which is a member of the Union, did not consult the Union when it signed with Russia a South Stream agreement. Serbia will earn about 200,000 euros annually from transit taxis, according to estimates of competent ministries. Now, for transit fees, Hungary pays 100,000 euros annually. Andrej Mernier, secretary-general of the EU Energy Charter, also openly said that the competitive pro-Western Nabucco pipeline project, due to gas shortages, is still a still still a stillborn. Branko Terzic, an American of Serbian origin and an energy expert, wrote a section dealing with the planet's energy future in the essay of prominent world politicians and experts titled "World Crisis and beyond Iraq" specifically for Serbia: it is a good deal, because natural gas in Serbia is currently more expensive than in any other European country. The topic is not exactly gas, but the agreement we signed gave us strength on the entire political scene, and yet it is in the context of visa relief for all those who co-operate with the Russian Federation. In addition to charging and transit taxis, and the price of gas, not entering the price of the whole package, the contract has brought Serbia really many benefits. As we can see, everyone in the environment is still looking at Serbia. Serbia has finally won a very important and strong strategic partner. What is good news is, it seems that we will also have a unique access to bilateral relations with the Russian Federation, which seems to be the most significant message from this part of the territory. What we had the opportunity to feel during the whole signing campaign of this agreement was a campaign against a Russian partner, even certain illogicalities that occurred during the transition to the Serbian market and the realization that the big problem that arose was property that was somewhere undefined, a final account that was very strange. These are all the facts to be considered if we want to count on a strong lever of power, such as Russia and China, and finally the Eastern market. These are concrete messages in which work is being done in the state of Serbia and what indeed those who really see Serbia as an economically recovered country in Serbia's territory and meet. That's not illegal, of course. In every country, there are lobby centers that are well paid for propagating certain interests, but these are facts that are worth public speaking about and so that it finally stops somewhere. So when all these propaganda phrases, which actually come from Union territory, which is really by standards for so many years and decades ahead of the Serbian economy and Serbian products, are rejected, and if concrete economic data are analysed, there is in fact an alternative to this Western concept, namely the Brussels concept of economy, that is, for us, for the SRS specifically called the EU. What we think and that is our political belief, traditionally, we admit, we are Russians, is that Russia, based on everything that has been said so far and what I'm talking about, is the right economic choice for Serbia. Serbia is the only country west of Karpat that has a single free trade agreement with Russia. That's also a fact. Such a gift would be desired by any economy in Europe. So, unfortunately at some political moment in the state of Serbia, what was a vain fact was the statement by former Russian Ambassador Alexei in July 2007, which said that Serbia's increase in exports to Russia was an ongoing issue. He also said that we should use a free trade agreement more actively, which is unique because it does not exist between Russia and countries outside the Community of Independent States. Also, unfortunately, that is when the wind went to the words of Mr. Andrej Hripunov, a trade representative of the Russian Embassy in Belgrade, who claimed that all Serbian products could be sold on the Russian market. Any competitive goods Serbia has can offer the Russian market. The best example is "Metalac" in Gornji Milanovac, more than a third of the production goes to Russia. The goods are competitive and there is no problem in selling well in Russia. What is also our political belief, based on this particular data, that all these moves were somewhere in vain because of a suicidal economic policy, dogmatically turned only and exclusively towards the EU, was indeed a tragic situation, out of 212 exporting goods groups with Russia, in 72 there are no indicators, only about 5% of Serbian exports to Russia. Instead of exporting Serbian companies to the Russian market, where they have preferential treatment and thus reduce the huge external trade deficit, the largest in the history of the Serbian economy, which is a direct consequence of the senseless idea that Serbian companies can compete with, say, French and German monopolies on the EU market, there has been a new exploitation of the Serbian economy by the West, precisely through the use of the benefits of the contract with the Russian Federation. (President: National MPs, time at your disposal as an authorised representative has been used. Please bring the end. ) So, finally, based on these extreme facts, and there is still a lot, unfortunately, we are limited in time, the SRS will vote in favour of this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18386	The word is by MP Nenad Popovic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. It's available for three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18387	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS will vote in favour of this agreement. It is very important to say, I will repeat, that Russia has done a lot for Serbia in recent years. First of all, it clearly supported us without any conditions, unreservedly around Kosovo and Metohija, supporting not only the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, and above all respecting international law. On the other hand, Serbia is most privileged in trade relations with the Russian Federation, with a duty-free arrangement for 97 products produced on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which has no other country in the world. Third, thanks to the government's co-operation with the Russian Federation, there was a signing of a contract to build the best economic agreement signed by the Republic of Serbia, which is the construction of the South Stream. Fourthly, the visa-free regime for Serbian citizens has shown Russia's attitude towards Serbia. I will only point out that the visa-free regime has asked Russia for EU countries in December 2008, but Russia has not allowed them to do so. Russia is our largest foreign trade partner. We and Russia have four billion dollars a year. We import far more than we export here and there is the greatest chance for Serbia's economy, to take advantage of the best possible potential there is and to go out to that world's largest market. All European governments headed, above all, with the German government, the French and other European states, as well as the United States, are making every effort to get into the demanding Russian market, using all the potentials that their governments provide to them, their chambers of commerce and other institutions. The biggest foreign trade partners today with Russia are Germany and America. And we don't need to discover water or build a wheel, we need to do what all European countries do, what the United States does, to define the strategy of the best possible political and economic relations with the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the current government, is making several major mistakes that threaten to destroy relations with the Russian Federation. Fortunately, these relationships are much stronger and this government will not succeed, and I will list two concrete examples. The first example is - the best gas agreement, which was ratified by the 220-vote Serbian Parliament in this assembly, one deputy prime minister called the government a bad deal and worked in every way possible to destroy this agreement. Fortunately, his intentions did not come true and the agreement was ratified, the agreement was adopted by the assembly and the agreement is already being applied, but it was a very bad message to the Russian Federation government. On the other hand, this attempt to send Serb soldiers to NATO maneuvers in Georgia, which Russia has seen as the largest possible provocation, is indeed unprecedented and must be put on the path urgently. The Serbian foot has never set foot east, a Serb soldier has never gone to the Russian border and that must never happen. That is why we want to point out once again, we must have a strategy of political relations and economic relations with great forces, and in this regard also with the Russian Federation. These relations must be based on mutual respect and respect. (President: National MP, the time at your disposal as an authorised representative has been used. I'm done. The DSS strongly supports this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18388	Before I conclude a unique search on the draft law, I am obliged to ask if the proposing official, Minister Vuk Jeremic, foreign minister, wants the final word? He might want to, but he's not there. I am concluding a unique search of the bill. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle and in general in the voting day. I ask the National Assembly's service to invite the finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Diana Dragutinovic, who we know is in the building, to enter the National Assembly. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the 2009 amending and supplementing financial plans. Mr. Žododine of the Republic Fund for Penzijan and INVALID HAVLID HALIJAK ZAJAK, the Republic of Slovenia FOR ZDRUČA ZALIĆ ZAK ZAJAK ZAŽAK ZAŽAČAK ZAŠKKKKOČA KALIĆAK KOLAKK, Oto Kišmarton, Zoran Antić, Tomislav Budimirović, Milet Poskurić, Vučeta Tošković, Mićo Rogović, JORVANKA TabAković, Milan Knezević, Igor Bečić, Zoran Babić, Jelena Budimirović, Dragan Žaljić, Ljiljana Miladović, Gorjavić, Gorica Možović, Boris Obradić, Radojko Obradić, Vjerica Rade, Dobraža, Dobrabić, Dobrabić, Dobražnabić, Nebić, Nebić, Nebić, Nebić, Ivan Žbić, Slav Žbojdić, Žaljan Žaljan Žbić, Žbić, Slav, Žaljan Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Žalić By written amendment, MPs Petar Jojic withdrew to Article 3, Dragan Stevanovic to Article 3, Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 1, Vesna Maric to Article 1, in which the word "credit" is replaced by the words "by taxing property of more than 1,000 dinars" and Donka Banovic to article 6th division 59, in which the amount of "181,842,000" is replaced by "131,842,000". You will receive reports from the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee during the afternoon, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. It will be distributed as soon as the reception and photocopying is complete, given the large number of copies. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has Diana Dragutinovic, minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18389	Good afternoon, everyone. After receiving 360 amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009 and after their analysis, the Government adopted 15 amendments to the Members of the People's Parliament, and this: Amendment of the People's MP Milovan Radovanovic to Article 2, Amendment of the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 2, Amendment of Parliament Bojan Mladenov to Article 2, Amendment of Parliament of People's Parliament of Jorgovanka Tabaković to Article 5, Amendment of the People's MP Milorad Krstin to Article 5, Amendment of Parliament of the People's Parliament of Gorica Mojovic to Article 5, but with correction, Amendment of Parliament of People's Parliament of Arsen Đurić to Member 6, Amendment of the People's MP Milorad Buha to Article 8, Amendment of the National MP Dr Nenad Popovic to Article 9, Amendment of Parliament of the Parliament of Milan Škrbić, Member of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia. Also, the government accepts the amendments, but with the corrections submitted by the following MPs: Radojko Obradovica on Article 1, Nikola Savic on Article 10. Also, two amendments to Article 17, submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dr Zoran Shami, were essentially accepted because they were contained in the same text in Amendment 4. Government. Finally, the text of the amendment of the Finance Committee to Article 5, due to the observed technical error, was also drawn up by MP Zoran Shami, which instead of "950,000", defined for the railway subsidies, essentially has to be allocated nine and a half billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18390	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Finance that when we are in the debate during the session in particular and when the amendments of the Members of the People's Parliament are in order, and they are in the same way as the amendments of the Government and the Committee, that the stenograms are made public saying that these amendments are being accepted. It is a practice that we adopted and we consider it necessary to remind, because the efforts of the MP who makes a good amendment must be marked at least by a sentence that the amendment is accepted and that it has become an integral part of the draft law, as well as a session of committees. So the government submitted to Article 1 of the amendment, and it became an integral part of the bill. The word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure is for the MP of the People's Republic of Slobodan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18391	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have reported for the violation of Rule 149 of this Rules of Procedure. As Members of the People, and especially to us as MPs of the opposition who have written the amendments, it is necessary that we have an explanation for why these amendments have been rejected. We also need to hear the position of the Finance Committee or the Reporter of the Finance Committee, to hear what reasons some amendments have been rejected, but most importantly we expect to get multiplied here by the Government's reasoning which is why certain amendments have been rejected. I don't want to obstruct the work, I understand we're in a hurry, but we had a weekend behind us, it could've been all set up and delivered to the MPs. It's kind of hard, without an explanation in your hands, to defend certain amendments that we've submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18392	You're right. That is why the current Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic verbally said the amendments were accepted by the government. She will be present for all questions, and when the session opens, I said the report will be distributed during our work. I remind you that you have the right to ask the minister directly for an explanation and she will be obliged to answer you. It would be otherwise, but if by the time you are interested in why some of your amendments are not accepted, the minister will be required, or she will be warned and called on my behalf to give you an answer if you do not receive written material distributed and forwarded during the session. On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18393	If I overstep those two minutes around the amendment, count on me to continue some time from the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment submitted to Article 1 is the need to extend the time to discuss the budget itself and the need to lose that time at the very time of the amendment to Article 1, in which someone else can spend your time, but by submitting the amendment, I really want to ask the Government and ask Mrs. Minister why she did not continue to practice as precise and more complete a report on the content of this law as we speak. In order to make it clear to the citizens what I'm talking about, in financing the budget, the principal debt figure, which in the basic text of the law was about 42 million, is now 174.924,000, so I actually wanted to keep an explanation for this huge increase in the figure. I tried to explain the state of internal debt, to which most of this figure applies, to find an explanation for it. So I found that the public debt situation on page 31, i.e. on page 133 of the total text - the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia is 8,900,000 euros. In this context, the state of public debt, which relates to the internal debt, is 3,200,000 and we now have a breakdown of the individual state of public debt – according to long-term bonds issued to the National Bank of Serbia, and the liabilities to the PIO Agricultural Fund, employees, according to the Commercial Bank for the Buying of the Embassy in the Republic of Serbia and the most significant figure of the total amount is actually old foreign savings, i.e. the obligation to the citizens, because it has to the State, that is, to the National Bank, to the banks and citizens. All these figures are given in aggregate amounts of total liabilities as public debt, and internal debt. How much of these amounts of uncontested liabilities apply to this budget – it is out of the reasoning and the very text of the budget law that I cannot see, because on page 135 it writes – it pays the principal to domestic lenders. Only through the explanation under point 1) – that it is the main payment of domestic securities of value, except for shares, amounts to 120,026,000 etc., which is about a billion and a half euros. I do not dispute, Madam Minister, that you with the budget law, that you, with the final plan of category 611 -- the payment of the principal, really do not have the obligation to give this more precisely. But it is necessary for us to grant you the right to this enormous increase in one item, to see what is justified in the 2009 budget that by filling the budget, citizens will be able to pay off, or I'm going to ask a reasonable doubt through the question, and that's not the financing of the liquidity of irregular inflows, through securities of value, which you say don't cost much, so maybe they cost a lot, I don't see it here? What are we doing through this internal debt payment, in such a large number, actually paying off? I'm asking a well-founded question, because all the while you're refusing a direct relationship between external debt and public debt. It's foreign debt, you'll all agree, 21.5 billion euros. It will be increased by three billion euros this year. Next year probably for another three billion. So the total external debt is drawing dangerously close to the 30 billion-euro figure, which you will recognise almost 100% of the gross social product. You're saying it's only a public debt, and that's why I started reading the figures from the budget, where the public debt is about eight billion euros. Do you really think there is no connection between external debt, which is a debt of economy and citizens, and this public one, which is a debt of the state? You assure us that you care for these eight billion, but you worry over the citizens' pockets by having to find funds to return it from the budget. The direct link between the public debt that the state is concerned about, because it is returning through the budget -- because the state has no other income. On the other hand, the total external debt, which approaches a dangerous 30 billion-euro figure, is not irrelevant to the state, because when citizens do not have the opportunity to repay it or, because of the exchange rate, the credit rate from one-third rises to one-third, as Sartide workers claim to be increasingly difficult to live, and they cannot tell them how much this credit is, because it is forbidden in their company to say what pay is, and they are afraid that the full closure of production will mean – the complete inability to repay credit, you have to admit that this will become the problem of the state, because that citizen will no longer buy in the store. It will reduce its needs to the most necessary, and will reduce the inflow for VAT, and for paying municipal services and taxes on apartments, whose base you increase, and all other obligations. When an economy of private debt, which you say is not directly yours, cannot repay – it is also indirect, and almost tomorrow the direct problem of the state. Because when an economy can't pay VAT, pay taxes, when it can't settle all obligations to the state, whose business is that, or care, but states? There's no more methodology to defend it. There are no criteria prescribed at some world level. It's a real life, a lack of inflow into the budget and the inability for the state to perform its functions. In that sense, I just want to remind you that the way the budget is being created and the way you're reporting it, it actually assures us that it's overrated revenues and underestimated credit obligations. That's the purpose of my amendment. I want to warn you while it still makes sense – that the real reporting, in which incomes will have to be shown in their reality, in the sense that it is really possible for these revenues to come, and in the awareness that we are realistically showing our obligations – is your obligation. Change the contiguous plan, please, it's the smallest thing to do. If I read you only three data, which is why Enron failed, these are the biggest, great you know, disasters in terms of the downfall of the largest companies that were – by the criteria, according to the methodology of the most targeted market economies, allegedly controlled and regulated, and people still lost their jobs and pensions. I'll tell you, according to the reports, why their destruction occurred. Enron, Vordcom, Parmalat, Elan and Alston, these are the most famous financial breakdowns, source of irregularity, overrated earnings, undervalued debt. Vordkom – overrated earnings, under the influence of mistreatment and capitalisation of expenditure. Parmalate – underestimated debts, incomes and earnings overrated. Elan – non-consolidation of dependent companies, overvalued earnings and capital. By not acknowledging that from Djindjic's government, which for you started the world, the number of assistants and secretaries from 160 went to 232 and that the 2002 budget increased to eight billion euros in 2008, and that it was not only 2007, when we took over the federal administration after we left Montenegro, where 30% of the previous budget increased by 38% compared to the previous one, I am giving you the information that the budget increased by 2004 compared to 2003. So, more in 2004 to 2003, without joining the federal administration, of all competences, of customs, etc., than when we received these increased national competences. It means overestimating the possibility of funding various services, agencies, employees, which day and day you won't admit to being excess. You won't fire them, because you don't have the money to pay for the severance, but that's why in science institutes, they can have no equipment and pay high-level staff to have no income. The state is sending a bad message about how it will regulate its future. He overestimates the income and underestimates the credit debt, and we said there's no income from privatisation. Where are they? We're just gonna do some research. Please understand the importance of full disclosure of important events, i.e. important data in the amendment, and in this way literally in the next rebalancing, how much tomorrow we're going to talk about here, you bring out precise figures, real figures without concealing certain information, because sooner or later everything comes to a charge through the budget, and all of us as citizens, and it's completely pointless to make our reality better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18394	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Jadranko Vukovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Jovan Damjanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18395	During the debate on budget rebalancing for 2008 and the 2009 budget, the DSS and DSS MPs indicated that the budget was unrealistic, had its shortcomings, had no clear strategy and, among other things, was wasteful. It is this amendment that points to expenditure on expenditure on buying goods and services, where the original amount planned by the budget of 46,365,991,330 dinars is changed by 35,000. 964,081, where the amount is reduced by 10,398,910,300 dinars. This shows that there were unrealistic expectations in the budget, that many items were planned and many expenditures for various supplies of goods and services, which is essentially the biggest cause, and the greatest phenomenon of corruption and some of the actions that raise doubts is this particular item. The Democratic Party has indicated that this budget is unrealistic and that it is expendable. That's what we pointed out when we talked about the foreign exchange and foreign reserve costs themselves. For these very reasons, I have made an amendment to cut by a billion dinars this amount, because in the best way we show that this budget is without one clear strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18396	Anyone else? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18397	First of all, I believe this increase in excise duty is a direct blow to the citizens and to the economy. We, although the distinguished Minister won't agree, are today a European leader, at least we're a European leader, at the expense of excise duties in the price of oil derivatives. We definitely have the highest participation. That's 62%. The price of oil in August was three times higher than today. The pump price is not three times smaller today, it's only 30% lower than it was in August. Why? Because we have an unprecedented high excise duty, the largest in Europe, 62% of the price of oil derivatives at gas stations is excise. On the other hand, this is a direct blow to agriculture. The unilateral application of the SAA directly reduces customs duties and the proposal was concrete that this figure, we believe, would be the means that would be obtained if we cut off the unilateral application of the SAA, that figure would be 14.5 billion dinars and could be directed directly into agriculture. I know someone doesn't like agricultural subsidies. I know and I respect that, but it's the only way to stay competitive on the market compared to other European countries, because they do the same. Just to say that the seed collected from last year by 25%, the fertilizer collected by 14%, the chemical preparations were more expensive by 50%. We must say that the largest manufacturer of the home fertilizer "Azotar" Panchevo does not work and that this will make the price much higher. This is just one example of how agriculture is treated today by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the idea of this amendment was that instead of unilateral application of the SAA, income from customs is used to help agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18398	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18399	I'm sorry, obviously I wasn't fast enough to be seen before, but I certainly can't talk about any concrete amendments. I'd like to welcome Dr Dragutinović. I hope that this debate will be fruitful for the citizens of Serbia, among which all the research on this side is, unfortunately, growing fear of job loss and economic and social uncertainty, rather than fear of the very loss of life. It's a simple environment within which we talk about budget rebalancing. We met again after three months. We're talking about everything that's taken over so we can all understand how we're going to function in a world of financial crisis. I must express my joy that the amendments of some of my colleagues have been accepted. This really speaks of our good intentions to participate in budget rebalancing and to make it better for citizens of the Serbian state, and also of the proposal that in such a difficult and burdensome situation it should try to find the best possible way out. We hope there's no new budget rebalance. We also hope that the effects of the financial crisis will be overcome. You'll allow me, we'll step down from the position of a completely different political and economic belief, and with this in connection, what we think was inadmissible, the situation has again been inherited specifically, and it is precisely that wandering in concepts of recovery and empowerment of the Serbian economy, and therefore, I fully agree with you, that from the position of professionals the new government-new priorities, there is no bad draft budget law and it's completely legitimate. Unfortunately, however, it does not mean much to the citizens of Serbia, what I can say, almost means nothing, because they face daily problems that they cannot come out of. Several examples that speak for themselves and on which we think the executive power in Serbia has fallen is the inability for citizens to collect debts from employers. We saw a brutal example in New Market. Last week about 50 employees of a privatised firm in Kragujevac climbed the top of the building and attempted collective suicide. Also, a few weeks before that the same terrible example, I'm quite certain that you, as a college professor, will agree. We have had opportunities to watch a finished medical student, with an average of over nine, who ends in Serbia in 2009, because he cannot find a job that would satisfy his needs, which is existential in the state of Serbia, but with that secondary medical and technical school leaving Serbia, leaving the EU countries, where he hopes to find and meet his needs. These are concrete indicators of what we are talking about today and here, and the eyes of citizens and the attention of citizens are fully focused on this debate on budget rebalancing. What citizens, outside of all these professional, economic, and mathematical and logical terms, about budget rebalancing, are interested, is -- will they survive from first to first, and that's the only fact we can give an answer to. We in the SRS believe that the government has chosen the wrong path, that it has strayed too much since 2000, that the reform course has not even been launched, and not finished, that this huge state administration, which has grown politically in all these years, is now both political and economic and social problems, what now with all these people who are going to have to get fired. I don't think it's easy for you to get into this budget rebalance, and yet politically, I don't think you're the kind of person who should be answering a number of questions that need to be asked here. In the first place, our political confidence is that there should be a shadow prime minister, Mr Boris Tadic, who should respond – what is waiting for Serbian citizens between May and October of this year, and then all other resolution ministers, who should respond that they will manage to curb the rising prices, in which way citizens, whose nominal value of earnings fell before freezing compared to rising prices, will be able to survive one month. How will it preserve jobs in the state of Serbia, given the growing increase in non-proliferation businesses? I would just stand there for a moment and I would like to remind myself of a fact that is very important, and what we would like to launch is – where the funds went from the privatisation funds and how it is possible that they did not respond in time, assuming that this situation could happen. Since most likely, since we are not blind, we do not have a final account, we do not have an audit of the final accounts, why the funds from the privatisation funds went into spending and buying political and social peace. Let's see what about investment and what kind of atmosphere we're talking about everyday life of the average citizen of Serbia, which is the organisation that will stand in defense of his rights as a worker. Here in Serbia, we don't even have a strong enough union organisation, which will be established as a strong force between the state, employers and workers. We are on very glass feet and it is unclear, on both the mathematical and logical terms of the rebalancing budget – in which way, according to the positions of the budget, citizens will be able to survive one single month. Just to remind you, I know you know very well, but I also know that this session is being followed by all those who are owned to answer this question, and they left you alone, and you are not in charge of discussing exactly this issue with us, but we hope that during the debate at least one of them will appear, what is the fact is that the state owes as much as 68 billion dinars or 719 million euros in economics, which is why many businesses in Serbia cannot operate. Of that figure, 43 billion government dinars are owed through public enterprises, more than 10 billion companies doing NIP jobs, and the rest of those companies that were dealing with police, military, education, health and state administration. What Mr. Dragoljub Rajic, otherwise a spokesman for the Union of Employers of Serbia, spoke for the media in time, unfortunately we are mostly informed from the media about this situation, is that the state owes the most to construction companies. Through public enterprises, as Mr. Rajic points out, the state has remained in debt to the economy of 43 billion dinars. Specially damaged companies are travel companies, tolls, which are owed the most. Only JP Serbia's roads owe them 35 billion dinars. The remaining eight billion dinars are the debts of EPS, the coal mine Resavica, Kolubara, as well as Srbiagas and Telecom. Payments in the economy have been extended to 150 days, making every fourth enterprise in Serbia invaluable. Also, what were the warnings, is that this extension of the billing deadlines was largely signed by the state as a responsible culprit, who owes entrepreneurs more than 10 billion dinars over 9 months to carry out NIP operations. It is also a matter of very serious testimony that more than 58,000 businesses in Serbia have blocked accounts and that these companies cannot in large numbers settle their obligations, as the state also owes them money through public enterprises and other institutions, all of which are facts ahead of the budget rebalancing debate in particular. On the one hand, you have a state that owes companies, doesn't settle obligations. On the other hand, you have companies that exactly in time have to settle their obligations to the state in terms of VAT, customs, taxes and contributions. Who are the biggest debtors? These are the Ways of Serbia, EPS, coal mines Resavica, Kolubara, Srbijagas, Telecom, and the companies to which the state owes the most are "Planum", "Intermost", "Energoproject", "Minel Hydrograding", "FAP Trucks", "Interstil", "Energooil". However, that is not a simple situation says the following. This is the situation of bewitched Olympic circles. In this relationship, everyone owes everyone without anyone paying. What's also a fact, is that there is an ineffectiveness of the existing instruments of payment of claims, i.e. There is also no instrument to regulate it. According to the World Bank, in order to collect controversial claims under commercial contracts in Serbia, it takes 635 days for you to pass 36 procedures, which are spent 28.4% of the debt value. On the other hand, there are clients you can't sue, and that goes by principle – on whom you depend, you can't blame them. We have heard the announcements that there are several scenarios to solve these problems, but you will admit, when you have the fact that the state owes 68 billion dinars to the economy and that, in fact, by its decision, it has pushed companies that feed so many people into inequality, then it is also the fact that this budget rebalance is gaining new weight. If you, during the debate, convince us, and yet you are not yourself to answer all these questions, and therefore the whole government should be present, so this debate would benefit the citizens, but that this budget rebalance will result in the removal and overcoming parallelly, as a parallel process, all of these problems that are dramatic for the Serbian economy and for all of us, then perhaps we believe that the effects of the financial crisis will nevertheless be mitigated in the period when the strongest blow is expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18400	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. The word is from the People's Messenger, Dr. Nikola.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, at first I would like to express my regret that we were not in a position to get the government's opinion. I thank you for the information that the amendments have been accepted, but with all the understanding of the deadlines that were short, I think it was still necessary to respect the procedure and deliver to us the opinion of the Government. The amendment envisions a significant increase in funding for the education of young and talented people. The current economic crisis is just one kind of reminder that sustainable development should be essentially all our decisions and efforts. It is important to say that there can be neither social cohesion nor political stability without sustainable development. In order to achieve this, a knowledge - based society must be created and nurtured. We are all witnessing that among the most developed societies of today there is a kind of quiet, and even open competences, to attract talented and educated experts, because they know that the economy is closely correspondence with top science and education. Unfortunately, we find it very common that many talented young people are not able to continue schooling precisely for economic reasons, but are forced to work and thus support themselves and their families. The DSS believes that the way out of this economic crisis can bring knowledge and, in this sense, it is necessary to pay particular attention to the education of talented people and to the exploitation of all their potentials, in order to overcome this economic fur. I regret that this amendment has not been adopted and that these funds have not been increased.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18402	The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Suleiman Spaho submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction, so I'm guessing it's become an integral part of the bill. The word is Mr. Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18403	Madam Minister, this is an extremely important amendment because it paves the way for a gross budget. Article 1 The budget law records revenues, expenditures, record budget deficits, and so far income, direct and indirect, have not been recorded by budget users. How significant these are the funds are and the data that this budget rebalances 82 billion dinars or a little less than a billion euros. It's a big deal about making a gross budget. The second thing I wanted to point out in the amendment to Article 1 is exactly the question of deficits. The deficit this year is 2.4%, but the deficit of the republican budget. The total consolidated budget, which is also the budget at other levels of government, including businesses, funds and local self-government, is 3% or around 90 billion. However, with careful analysis of the text of the budget, we have also analysed what the proposed budgets of the funds look like, especially the PIO Fund. What is particularly important to point out is that, through all the amendments to the law and the increases in pensions that we had last year, the budget of the PIO Fund is approximately 76 billion higher. You have significantly increased the transfers by this budget rebalance, for the simple reason that the contributions to the burden of employees are not good enough. On the other hand, in the text of the budget, you told us that if we took as a base not a budget, since it's obviously far away, what you suggested a few months ago, but the implementation of the 2008 budget, you told us that there was no change in fiscal policy, even that budget couldn't be realized, but compared to those 650 billion, about 619 billion would have been realized. That's what the bill says. That's about 5.5% less than the budget for the previous year. When we look at official data from the Republic Statistics Institute, or the National Employment Service, there is a significant increase in the number of unemployed or, if you will, the number of employees is reduced. There are about 41,000 more of them than there were in October, which is the month that has the highest recorded employment. According to the National Service, 717,000 unemployed were in October, and now 75,000. The difference is 40,978. It is very interesting that despite this reduction, despite the increase in unemployment despite significant records, this is what the Tax Administration says, that there are employers who cease to pay contributions, the growth of income from salary contributions is projected by approximately 2.5%. The whole budget and everything decreases compared to the previous year by about 5.5%, and here it predicts a growth of 2.2%, which is not logical. If we assume that this base isn't good, if we assume that by the end of the year it's going to be no worse than it is today, it indicates that we're going to have a deficit of about 8% in this fund. Eight percent is one pension, that's one/12. So when we talk about deficits and these problems, it's important that we point out this fact and I'm afraid your data will be even worse than the ones I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18404	Anyone else? No, I don't. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Dušanka Plecevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Elena Christmas-Talian submitted to the 1st Amendment. The word is Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18405	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen, you'll probably be surprised, Madam Minister, otherwise I have a large collection of statements from the Serbian authorities and somehow I'm trying to track it when the laws are like this on the agenda. What attracted my attention and didn't surprise me, because somehow my impression when it comes to you is about that, but what's more important here is that he gave the answer in some way or I understood that this budget rebalance reflects the political will, not the profession or the word of the people from the professional reputation, and it's also the result of very rigorous demands of the IMF. So, on April 12, 2009 you said to Novac: If I were alone and independent in managing fiscal policy, the level and structure of public expenditure would be different, a small number of priorities, e.g. Corridor 10, (this particular part is important to me), protecting the poor, whether pensioners, employees, unemployed or children and rationalising the state at all levels. That's exactly the framework the SRS has. Honestly, the framework that we and I are both interested in, how Serbia's citizens will pass, given the measures the government is taking in terms of actually respecting the rigorous standards of the IMF and overcoming the effects of the global financial crisis on Serbia's soil. What is not clear to me, I may have misunderstood this data, it seems to me that the IMF requires that our budget deficit be reduced below 3% of gross domestic product, you will correct me if I am wrong, and in some short time, unlike other economies in Europe and the world that have a far larger budget deficit compared to gross domestic product, in percentages, which goes up to 16-17%. It is not clear why we, so vulnerable, were asked to meet such rigorous requirements, which meant these cuts within the budget position again three months after the adoption of the budget and which definitely meant a reduction in the state administration, i.e. consumption. This further means that we have a very big problem with all these people who are going to lose their jobs, how to provide them, and they are neither responsible nor obliged to work in state and para-state authorities, because unfortunately because of the wrong conduct of economic policy, it was the only lucrative business and regular income in the state of Serbia after 2000. While we are already within Article 1 on page 4. The draft budget rebalancing law, we're getting information that creates logical doubt as to why the principal debt payment item increased by 105 billion dinars. If we compare the data from this debt payment table and the acquisition of the financial assets of the Republic of Serbia with the data of the 2009 Budget Law, it is concluded that payments to domestic lenders increased by 102.6 billion dinars, payments to foreign lenders by two billion dinars, we assume it is due to the exchange rate, and debt payments based on activated guarantees of 0.5 billion dinars. Here we see that debt payments increased by three months by 105 billion and primarily by increasing the debt to domestic lenders by 102.6 billion dinars. That's not a small amount. It's almost completely unclear why that amount for about three months, and that's what we talked about in a united debate, you gave a partial answer in terms of short-term government debt for over one billion euros. It's not clear why it's done. What we can understand is that you do not believe in the effects of the proposed economic measures on the economic activity of Serbia. That is why the state is projecting to actually be in charge of over one billion euros. What we think, and we have consulted certain independent economic experts, I think it would be logical to owe an additional 25 billion dinars in line to increase the budget deficits of 20 billion dinars and to pay the debt to foreign creditors by about two billion dinars. We hope to hear the answer to our dilemma, because the factual answer will also give an answer to the question whether the state really believes that these proposed measures will give certain effects on the economic activity of Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18406	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. The word is Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18407	Since I've been talking a little while longer, I'm now going to be in time to explain this amendment. I am pleased that you have accepted the amendments of my colleagues, but of course I am not happy that this amendment of mine has not been accepted. I thought it was justified, and I will say because of the citizens of Serbia that this figure on proposed transfers is, in fact, the amount, that Professor Shami is not correcting me now, provided for by the transfer of mandatory social insurance organisations, EC 464, however, is increasing, because it is a concrete very difficult economic situation. I assume you'll tell me you have other priorities. We believe that under the conditions of a crisis that, not to repeat ourselves, we are talking for days, difficult conditions of the adjustment, general indifference and the fall in traffic and demand, reductions in the number of employees, that it is necessary to increase social and other giving, precisely because we, and I see you, are also interested in the social and economic security of the citizens of Serbia. We thought that the amount that you suggested would increase to the amount that we gave with the amendment. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been accepted, but we hope that economic and social security of Serbian citizens will be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18408	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Lidija Vukicevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 1st amendment. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18409	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, I'm glad you're here today and you can answer our questions and concerns about budget rebalances. Of course, it is not good that there was no Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who is in principle the most called responsible for the country's economic policy, which, unfortunately, for the last year or the last ten months, can be characterised as wrong, and not to say disastrous. We see in the media that the country's economic policy is creating, above all, a minister of economy, a prime minister who explains the measures appears at NGOs' conferences, and in parliament you come to explain it to us. With all due respect to you and your personality and your work, it says how much government, how much prime minister, how much the ruling coalition respects parliament and how much they respect Serbian citizens. In the amendment, which is linked to Article 13 and Article 2, it is essential that local self-governments, which, in addition to, of course, the most endangered layers of society, pensioners and employees with poor social status, will be the most vulnerable and therefore local self-governments do not reduce transfers by 15 billion, as provided for in Article 3. No one has ever told us who, in which way and with which parameters they decided to interrupt local self-government, or deny 15 billion dinar transfers. Also, no one explained what the criteria were for the government, or you, or the one who made the budget, to act in this way, to save the real ones. Also, we do not know from which funds an additional 11 billion will be allocated to finance the province's administration in Vojvodina, which came, I think, on Friday. We heard it through the media, we didn't hear from you, but the prime minister said that with the Vojvodina MPs, with the duchy coalition and the Social Democrats League, it was agreed to provide an additional 11 billion dinars to finance the province's budget. From what resources will the province's budget be financed with an additional 11 billion, if that is not available in the budget rebalance? In this way, you will help the province administration, help and municipalities from Vojvodina, because they will receive indirect funding from the province budget, but that is why municipalities throughout Serbia, especially those most vulnerable from the south of Serbia, will be affected because they will be reduced transfers for various projects they have planned, because their infrastructure is the most endangered and projects that are imagined will not be able to be achieved precisely because transfers to local self-government will be reduced. We believe that this is very wrong and that in this way it will further affect the poor situation of municipalities anyway, the poor situation with jobs employed in local self-governments and, of course, additional pressure on these people to seek better arrest and better standard in some major cities. So I urge you not to do this, to accept an amendment that does not deny local self-government transfers. I don't know why you're looking at me like that, but I think that makes sense. Why would they now deny local self-government something that is vital to their life for the realization of the projects they have imagined? In this way, you will further influence that life in these municipalities is getting worse and I ask you to consider adopting this amendment, which is, of course, related to Articles 1 and 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18410	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Ragush Marina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18411	Of course, I'm using the time foreseen for the SRS parliamentary group. Indeed, there have been many words on this subject in the past few days, and we have witnessed that the presidents of municipalities and cities have rebelled because of this decision, not understanding how they will be able to achieve them, and it concerns the direct population living in the cities and municipalities of Serbia. But what has also found us, although not surprising again, has become the government's manners in Serbia, is a statement by Mr Stojan Stamenkovic. He is a member of Prime Minister Cvetkovic's economic council. He says, among other things, that the council only met twice. Once, and that last time, when Prime Minister Cvetkovic announced the government's new measures. Also, Mr. Stamenkovic says they did not have an official session where, for example, before negotiations with the IMF, the government would ask members of the council what they think of the solutions. What Mr. Stamenkovic also said, and yet it is an atmosphere within which we are discussing budget rebalancing, is that the government was found with 100 billion dinars missing, calculated by the IMF, so they had to count quickly, and when the people rebelled over the salary tax they had to include other measures. This mess could have been avoided if they were ready. Also, before the Fund arrived, we were said to ask for two billion dollars, and then the IMF said we needed three billion euros. In his interview, Mr Stojan Stamenkovic, a member of the Serbian Prime Minister's Economic Council, said on 18 April 2009. Speaking of the difficult situation for local self-government, the reduction in the transfer to local self-government, Dr Dragutinovic also said in a statement on April 12th that there was an 8% growth planned in the Republic and 20% in municipalities. So, out of 40 billion dinars directed towards local self-government, this is not part of the quote, of course, we need to subtract 15 billion, and Article 24, just to remind you, the Budget Law, the 1st position finds that units of local self-government are able to increase the amount of wages paid in 2008 to up to 7.8%. It shall be noted in the same article that unless the decision referred to in Article 1 is respected, then the minister may suspend the transfer of the transfer funds, until the amount of payment appropriations complies with the obligations laid down in Article 1. So 40 billion dinars in the 2009 budget were projected exactly in accordance with this article and with Article 37. Law on the financing of local self-government, i.e. at the level of 1.7% of gross domestic product for 2007, not with local self-government projections. What's significant here? These arguments, which give us a mathematical approach to solving problems in the budget, mean that this measure would have to change the Law on financing local self-government, or we are wrong. That's also another piece of information that should really be considered. So, do we, these solutions, which are the IMF's demands, jump into a new wave of other problems that are legal in addition to, of course, the concrete ones, which are the economic and social stability of citizens living in the municipalities and cities of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18412	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18413	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, unlike Mr Vuk Jeremic, who we did not see in the previous afternoon's session, who was to present and promote an extremely important and useful agreement, to promote the improvement of relations between Serbia and the Russian Federation, you, Mrs Dragutinovic, attend today's debate and promote an extremely bad bill proposal, more specifically the budget rebalancing. It is simply a paradox that we meet daily when it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to say about the topic which is both the topic that is current, the topic that shows in how the Government of the Republic of Serbia sees an entire area of functioning, which my predecessors have spoken of, a whole constitutional concept that we all agreed together that is necessary and necessary in the Republic of Serbia. It is an area of local self-government and, of course, the constitutional principle of equal regional development. All this declarative commitment that all possible efforts and state resources will be made to reduce the differences in the development of certain parts of Serbia at this point, to your decision that despite all the analyses made in the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, here in the Serbian Parliament, from serious analysts dealing with local self-government problems, you persistently and stubbornly reject these arguments and insist on reducing the transfer funds by 15 billion local self-government. Then you said that these transfer funds will not be reduced linearly, and the way you define it in article 13 as a possible correction is all but a correction. In fact, it's going to be a linear reduction. The fact that only respect will be given to the fact that the number of residents with local budgets, that this will solve this problem in a large number of poor municipalities with small budgets that now have serious problems in filling their budgets, and we all know that the biggest revenues in local budgets are revenues from profit from transfer funds, and that they will interfere not only with development, no more talks here, the development of local self-government in Serbia stands by adopting this rebalancing, the issue of normal functioning of a large number of local self-governments, where the transfer funds in a large number of local self-governments participate with over 50%. So, in addition to the fact that spending on NIP investments is being reduced, now by reducing the transfer funds, where a large number of local self-governments planned serious investments based on these funds, will question the normal functioning of local self-government. Please, Minister Dragutinović, to respect the arguments heard in previous months in public, to accept our amendments and thus to prevent a major disaster that will follow in a large number of cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18414	Thank you. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18415	I can only continue that story from a moment ago. Therefore, this amendment is also essentially linked to the previous and Article 13 which provides that funds are to be found for the smooth functioning of local self-government, i.e. there is no reduction in the transfer of units to local self-government. Why is this important? Well, it's important for a number of reasons, because complete infrastructure development is left to local self-government to take care of it. By reducing funds for local self-governments that do not have their own resources that can potentially reduce the number of employees, and we heard that in the last session of the government, they will be left with the same number of employees. Do you think with the reduced resources of local self-government they'll cut people's wages? He won't. Anything that will be transferred from the state level to local self-government will be spent on salaries for administration in local self-government and that means there will be nothing left for investments that local self-government planned for its own development. There will be nothing left of the funds that local self-government could have to do to improve the conditions for possible new investments, but all of this will go into consumption, and from investments, from what creates a new value, from what creates better conditions of injury, there will be nothing. If you take into account that NIP funds from last year's 47 billion, in the original budget proposal are reduced to 12 billion, and in this rebalance to barely three billion dinars, which also finance projects in local self-government, based on which many companies in local self-government live, earn and employ people, then it is clear that even filling budgets in local self-governments cannot be adequate from the part relating to taxes, wages in local self-government and other contributions because these activities will not be there. We come back to the same story, that we will not be subtracting the investment funds provided for in Fiat, which otherwise will not come safely to Serbia, because by 31 March it was due to pay its own funds, and no euro has been paid, but therefore local self-government will be denied for those assets that mean their lives. So, we're still making Podokin's villages, just to please one minister, who throws a ball, suffers, tweets, tweets until it falls, spends an idea, then creates some new and all over again. Now we're going to hire 10,000 young people as trainees to do a traineeship, and in that 80,000 people have already lost their jobs, and we have no solution to prevent it. In this way you also destroy Serbia's economy, of course living in local self-government. Please consider this amendment because it is essential for Serbia's further development.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18416	Thank you. The word is Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18417	It's also just as a support in trying to solve the huge problem that lies ahead of all of us, as regards the transfer to local self-government. No matter how much we are as a party to reduce consumption, we cannot be in favour of reducing the transfer to local self-government, and also of freezing wages in the context of price increases and uncontrolled price growth, and then the economic and social security of all citizens is at stake. So, what is the situation, I don't want to repeat myself, my colleagues have already said that many projects are very important for local self-government, to run, therefore, at a local level, where the state rarely appears as a debtor, I have already presented some data, and even more often late in payment. The reduction of transfers can create an even greater problem with real sector insolvency, i.e. Businesses on the one hand, and on the other hand, the question is again, who will normally enter into some new project with the state tomorrow, let's say infrastructure, if the state owes it for the previous. Whatever problem we touch, we have more problems to cover. This is one situation that creates an umbrella of problems, which once again penetrates the economic and social security of citizens, and therefore it was necessary that during the debate on such an important draft of the budget rebalancing law, which depends on whether these measures will further affect the economic activity of the Serbian state, so we will be able to overcome the crisis, indeed the entire government is present. The government gave its answer, only Mrs Dragutinovic is there. I'm very aware that you're not in charge of answering all the questions we're asking. Let's just say, honestly, I don't understand how in three months, the budget that should provide health insurance for all kinds of insurance, and we've been talking about reducing that position for people who can't make their own income. Mr. Secretary isn't here, so I can't ask you that, so I'm probably going to have to ask him some next time. So these are all the causal and consequential relationships that should provide answers to how all of us will see this one-month life in the period of overdoing the effects of the financial crisis on our lives in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18418	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is Mr. Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18419	Dearly respected Presidency Minister Dragutinovic, MPs, I would like to join this discussion on the difficult situation in local self-government, especially from one aspect, which is that in this term the government has formed a Office for the Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas, because at this stage, the reduction of funds and transfers to local self-government would simply require that those funds they are losing be replaced by some fund or some office that would have significant resources to accelerate the development of underdeveloped municipalities. According to the World Bank and IMF, Serbia belongs to countries with the highest imbalance between developed and undeveloped. This relationship between the most underdeveloped and developed municipalities or cities is 1:21. Such imbalances do not exist anywhere in Europe and should indeed be found on the list of these measures and a special programme on how to react in the most impoverished way, and in light of this crisis, to address the problem of underdeveloped areas. As for the Office for Sustainable Development, last year the budget was so modest, and spending was not modest, but so small, I owe it to the citizens of Serbia, for the municipalities underdeveloped in this country to say. Last year, this office spent 16 million dinars, and it's the job of this office to develop underdeveloped areas. In 2009 for the January-March period this year, the Office for Undeveloped Areas spent seven million dinars. I want to say that these days we are really witnessing that various experts, university professors, directors of economic institutes, many experts are talking about the economic crisis, about measures, I have noticed that there are many different answers to this crisis, but everyone agrees in one, which is that the poor will be even poorer, and that richer will be richer. We therefore thought that the government should have made one strategy more concrete – to balance the relationship between undeveloped and developed and thus give an adequate answer to everything that is happening to us. This list of partial measures and this reduction in the transfer of municipalities, we thought it could be replaced that one fund was formed for underdeveloped areas or that this budget of the Office for underdeveloped areas was somehow strengthened, not only to get 158 million dinars, and these are funds to finance the administrative work of this office. Therefore, I am saying this more and more because of this rebalance, but because of the rebalancing that is about to come, and I call on the Minister of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to pay attention to the fact that a larger figure is foreseen in the next rebalancing process and to replace this situation which simply does not go hand in hand with underdeveloped municipalities, not to go, but rather, as most economic experts say – will make them even poorer. We hope that after these measures we are about to adopt, the Government will indeed sit down and make a list of concrete measures, which will refer to the accelerated development of underdeveloped areas. Simply, some tax-based new measures, such as tax exemptions from all enterprises that work in an underdeveloped area. We have examples in Europe today that even some cantons in Switzerland, where you invest funds, release companies from taxes, because in that confederacy someone wants to develop some underdeveloped areas, even in one of the most developed countries. Through the Development Fund, we give huge funds to form new companies or to speed up the work of start-up loans or some new companies, but we are shutting down already existing companies. The economic crisis, we have to admit, has hit the most small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. We simply don't have the right answer to the key question – how to keep jobs in underdeveloped areas, how to motivate foreign companies that come to Kursumli, who come to the Shop, to tell them 'you'll be released 10 years of taxes, to invest in the Shop, in Tutin, in Sjenica, in Priboj', in all those municipalities that simply go through a very difficult situation right now, because we don't have one set of measures relating to underdeveloped areas. Many countries have development banks that would replace what the Development Fund can't do. That is why I call on the Government to form a programme of measures, and the institution to be the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas, given that the work and the office are part of it. Because of the budget that is planned, it is simply unthinkable that the work of this office and that underdeveloped areas get a list of measures that will respond to this difficult situation. I will end up just by finding most economic experts in this country is thinking that this crisis will make them more developed and poorer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18420	Thank you, Mr. Omeragic. The word is Dr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18421	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished Mrs. Dragutinovic, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I will use five minutes to point out something that is a great potential danger, which is indicated by world health professionals, and which is in direct correlation with the proposal for a current law on budget rebalancing, i.e. amendments and additions to the Budget Law. We've heard that one of the potential monsters of modern humanity is something called swine flu. You will ask yourself what this has to do with this subject – it has a lot to do with it. It concerns the fact that funding is needed for a national programme of preventive animal health of two billion 640 million dinars. Dr. Zivorad Kostic, who is a writer and co-author of three laws, 174 regulations and is one of the country's most famous veterinarians, the owner of a private veterinary cooperative, a member of the city's government, a local minister of Belgrade for agriculture, a shadow minister in the government of Zoran Djindjic, of course a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the president of her Committee on Agriculture, discussed this problem with Mr. Dragin. Mr Dragin is familiar and agreeable with what I'm about to say, so, Mrs Dragutinovic, I would like you to support him. Why? Because it is better and painless not to build 30km of road, not to make 300 "punta", not to build one ski resort, not to buy several planes, not to build one bridge, not to build 50 residential buildings – but to protect Serbia's preventive livestock fund. Again, the question of why? Because prevention is the cheapest, because there's no alternative, because there can be a sea of cattle. Because the killing of animals and the recovery of only one infection is 12 times more expensive than these funds needed in the budget for preventive health care; because people can be infected, and you take care of what I said in the first sentence; because the outbreak means stopping cattle traffic; because there is a ban on slaughter; because in the environment we have particularly dangerous diseases (rabbit, brucellosis, plague of pigs, plague of livestock). Because the voice towards Europe that there are infections in Serbia that are transmitted to humans can create a picture of us as if we were some kind of African country. Because it's only a matter of days before the infection happens, and then it's gonna be too late. So I ask you, given that we have already survived three major epidemics, that brucellosis on Vlasina, when 3,000 sheep, foot and foot were killed on KIM, the plague of livestock, when it had to be killed, or 500,000 pieces of livestock, which cost us very dearly, so the two years of the budget was squirming over it, and this is just an appeal not to let it happen again. I ask you, as the direct competent minister for this area, to consult with the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Sasha Dragin, who is familiar with this, who approves this, but who obviously has no opportunity to impose on the Government his position – that preventive animal health protection, for which it is necessary, I repeat, is to provide only two billion and six hundred million dinars, something that is necessary and something that is necessary for tomorrow not to be too late and that the consequences would not be dramatically greater. As an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, I urge you once again to take care of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18422	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18423	Dear Minister Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from just a few discussions concerning this topic of reducing the transfer of local self-government, it is hardly possible to imagine a national MP in this hall who would support something like this, and even a representative of the ruling coalition, who will always stand behind the government from party discipline, but I am convinced that a large number of MPs have certainly received suggestions from their municipalities and cities from which this should not be supported at all. The relation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to local self-government, i.e. the absence of a strategy, concrete measures, visions, is shown daily. I will set an example that has caused local self-government to be upset at the end of these days, which is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has given up its decision to enter the process of rationalising jobs in local self-government. The campaign lasted for months, announcements that the government of the Republic of Serbia will cut through the stimulating programmes the number of jobs in local self-government, that it will encourage local self-government to provide funds for it in their budgets, so when it was seen that the programme was largely not real, it started with pressures on local self-governments, that their transfer funds, as we now see, were not linked to it, so that they would be deprived of the NIP funds, so that the other day we would find out that there was no money in the budget. The announcements of savings in the administration have now fallen into the water, in order to get into a situation where the next thing you know, there's still a need to think about it. Some local self-government employees, not a large number of them, decided to enter this process, accept the government's programme to leave with contracts, leave their jobs, get severances. They planned their lives, families throughout, probably based on the fact that this campaign was convincing, clear and concrete. Now, nothing to anyone. It's gone, there's no money. One grand project, so long announced, fell into the water. Reduction of transfers to local self-government, a vague view of the fact that it is not known what to do with the number of employees in local self-governments and the reduction of the NIP budget and the lack of transparency of the spending of these NIP funds in the previous year is just that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not know what to do with cities and municipalities in Serbia. This is a serious problem, this requires a serious debate in the National Assembly, because we are faced with the fact that the municipalities will quickly come into a very difficult situation. There's Ambassador Hajdarevic from Priboj. The Pocket County is facing bankruptcy. Many municipalities are in this situation. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider these arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18424	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18425	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, and despite these laws changing the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, I totally understand that they cannot be something, when the revenues are at stake, very high. We have a small economy, we have a small territory, with small trade capital, and it's hard even by changing the tax policy to provide some significant tax revenues. On the other hand, I can say that I expected much more from the budget's own rebalance when it comes to spending and when it comes to costs, cost cuts and public spending at all. I see, however, that the government is now increasing this deficit with its policy compared to the one foreseen by the 2009 Budget Law. One digit is truly fantastic in all these amendments and additions to the law and which is the greatest. We didn't want to get into the very structure of the deficit. No amendments to the SNS have changed the deficit. But we are very interested in this amount of item 1 that is also mentioned in item 2, which is for the financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, writing the payment of the principal debt of 147,924,000 or, Madam Minister, no less than it was for 105 billion differences than it was in the original budget law. We also understand this story that something needs to come back from foreign exchange loans to international banks, some loans to foreign governments, some amount owed by the MUP, but in total these exchange rates to those projected 85 and now real 95 dinars for the euro are between two and two and a half billion, and the difference is about 105. We as MPs are interested in where that amount came from, what new loans you didn't know about when you designed the 2009 budget law, and I don't believe they're new loans. These are the loans that will be made during this year and a good part of the loan will be returned this year. I'm guessing it's about the values of the Treasury and the National Bank. Something is not known, which is -- what is the interest on these securities of value, how many of these 100 and some billion dinars of Serbian citizens are going to pay interest? Is that gonna be 10 or 15 or 20 billion? The problem isn't even as economic crisis as long as it's time for all your colleagues to understand the seriousness of the situation in which the state is. It is time to stop the abuses, it is time to stop spending money on various promotions of individual ministers, their political parties, and it is time for the largest party that makes up this coalition and has the greatest right to determine how the budget will be spent, not poor parties like G17, who has no censorship, but you have to admit the most impact on budgetary policy, on public expenditures, so it is time to stop with one such policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18426	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vlad Milojkovic.. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18427	Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, this is about the technical correction of the text in Article 2. It's a bill of law. The promoter thought it wasn't clear, so the amendment didn't adopt. It was quite enough for us that after a certain amount, the other attitudes, that is, attitude 1. The bill and other views are deleted. However, given that it is only a technical change, I am taking this opportunity, in the extension I will probably use the time foreseen for the parliamentary group. What is significant, which is the context of all these amendments, the budget rebalances and the general debate on the subject of the budget, it is totally unacceptable for us to discuss budget rebalancing, without having the final account of the previous one, that we do not know by the width of the position in which and where the funds go, we do not have a revision of the final accounts. I think all the talk starts and ends right there. I think it's one of the basic rights of those who single out for the government's administrative decision, now it's a solid asset compared to the receipts, to know where their money goes. Why do we keep talking about this by presenting different examples? Because finally and here during the regular session, in the break due to the draft budget rebalancing law, we heard Mr. Dulic that certain local self-governments had purposelessly spent funds intended to protect the environment and that this was the main reason for centralised all the funds that should be used in this area. It's inadmissible to hear that someone's unintended, illegally expending funds without being held accountable. This is a situation that is very specific to this country, which has systematically created such a situation that the directors of public enterprises during the financial crisis have salaries that amount to over three or five thousand euros without talking about breaking the law without talking about the resources that are incredible and coming out of the budget. What we're trying to say is that we're all stuck in a terrible fire situation because of poorly driven economic policy and systemic solutions. On the other hand, our anti-corruption advice, Mr. Ivan Ninic, has done a lot of analyses, and we will, for example, present to the Serbian public, because whenever we visit various TV and radio shows, the most common questions are final accounts, how the funds are spent. We need to withdraw those questions and we're doing it right now. On my right, there are about half a kilo of material, a report and spending control carried out, an internal group of the Ministry of Justice, a group of surveillance and internal control of spending. Anyone who wants to have insight can contact the SRS and the MPs' club, we'll give these documents an insight, and what's really there is and I think you need to know, and especially to take care of that, to find a concrete solution. So we're looking for final accounts and responsibilities for every non-intentional and illegal budget available. For example, in Serbia's judiciary, this has never been talked about publicly, let's say, the supervisory and internal control group works, and so the description of the jobs and tasks of this department is the control of all indirect beneficiaries of the budgets that the Ministry of Justice touches money from the Republic's budget. In this way, the internal controllers of the Ministry of Justice carry out two types of control. A group for the supervision and internal control of the justice ministry during 2007 carried out 14 ex post controls of judicial authorities throughout Serbia, and all controls established a mix-up, violation of regulations, and we can freely say - a robbery of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In addition to the legal obligation, the reporting of responsible persons who mixed up, the justice ministry with the then minister, Mr. Dusan Petrovic, has not filed a single application, nor has anyone borne responsibility, but budget malversions have been covered up. Here's the thing. The law is clear. He orders the internal controller to report a responsible person who purposelessly spent budget funds in breach of the rules by submitting a criminal or criminal application against that person to the authorities. This obligation arises from Article 75. The Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia, which states: "The request to initiate the infringement procedure under Article 74 of this Law is submitted by internal controllers, budgetary inspection and audits, local inspection and audit services and other persons authorised to supervise the enforcement of this law. 'Also, this obligation is specified by Article 176. The law of violations. It states that the request to initiate the infringement procedure shall be subject to authorisation or damage. The position of this Member shall specify that the authorised authorities are, in fact, the authorities of the administration, inspectors, public prosecutor and other bodies and organisations which exercise public authority, whose jurisdiction falls under direct enforcement or supervision of the enforcement of the rules providing for infringements. The SRS anti-corruption team asked whether the Department of Justice's oversight and internal control group, after controls were carried out in judicial authorities during 2007, filed criminal or criminal charges against the responsible persons in 14 controlled judicial authorities; if so, how many applications were filed; if not, which is why the application has not been filed. What we then received in response from the Ministry of Justice, that the applications were not filed, and that during the course of the control, there could be no breach of financial discipline, so there was no place to conduct misdemeanours or criminal proceedings. It's completely opposite of the truth. What are the facts, and on the basis of these 14 reports, I just showed, it is an official state, official document, carried out by the judicial authorities in Serbia, which is precisely a violation of the law, unintended and unlawfully available to the judiciary budget, and I am about to show it on certain examples right now. That is why it is necessary for us, before any debate on the draft budget or budget rebalance, to have a precise final account and a revision of the final accounts. Why? Because we talked about the Ministry of Economy on Friday and what we found at the time. Now we're talking about the Justice Department, and we have more examples. For example, at the Sombor Commercial Court, internal control found that the budget of the Republic in 2006 was damaged by 800,000 dinars, because the court did not pay in the Republic's budget, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Regulation of Courts. Also, the control showed that the Sombor Trade Court, in the name of registration costs, i.e. advertising in the official list, was charging customers with a fee of 3,000 dinars without legal basis, so that citizens were additionally robbed for 128,000 dinars. In addition, the court also charged a pausal of three to five thousand dinars on behalf of the costs of the court executioners on the ground, which was not in accordance with the current regulation, so citizens, on this basis, were robbed by 242,000 dinars. The control also established that certain budgets, transferred by the Justice Ministry, were not spent on purpose, in violation of the Law on the Serbian Budget System, and the salaries of court staff were increased by increasing the basic coefficient for the calculation of earnings and up to 20%, without legal basis. The next example, the Nis Trade Court; internal controllers carried out business controls in March 2007 and it was found that the transfer of funds amounting to 76,000 dinars from the court's deposit account was made at the expense of regular business, and that these funds were then spent non-intentionally on court logs, instead of being paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Registraration of Courts. The controllers also found that the appropriations that were transferred by the Ministry of Justice in 2006 for specific purposes were not intended or illegal, with the most serious possible violation of the Budgetary System Act. For example, for the purchase of material in 426 positions, 444,000 dinars were planned from the Republic's budget, while nearly a million and a half dinars were spent for that purpose. Services under contract at 423 were planned at 644,000 dinars, and 1,160,000 dinars were spent. In the Novi Sad District Court, the interior controllers of the justice ministry carried out financial control in 2007 and the non-intentional spending of budget funds was established. For example, for the expenditure of fixed costs at position 421, a expenditure of 30.4 million dinars was planned, while the court requested a amount of 60,000,000 from the Republic's budget for these purposes through a transfer request from the Ministry of Justice. For this position, the ministry of justice transferred funds of 36,000,000, so 5.3 million dinars more than the financial plan, with real expenditure in 2006 amounting to 25,000,000 dinars. Another example of the non-intentional spending of budget funds in the Novi Sad District Court is also famous services under contract at position 423, which has been established and approved by 15.4m dinars planically. The court demanded a transfer of 213 million from the justice ministry, after which it received 65 million, with a real expenditure of 73.1 million dinars. In addition to these illegal costs, the court purposelessly spent funds from other positions, i.e. economic classifications. The SRS anti-corruption team also discovered a similar situation in the Vrsac Municipal Court. Internal control in December 2007 in terms of financial operations found that the funds transferred by the justice ministry were not purposely spent. In this respect, it has been found that there are significant oscillations between the budget planned and approved, as well as in previous situations, the funds transferred and the funds spent, which are treated as the most severe possible violation of the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. For example, again, the position – services under contract, funds of two million were planned to be transferred from the budget to three and a half million dinars, while 2.3 million dinars were spent. The court's fixed labour costs of 421 have been granted three million, with 3.2 million being transferred from the budget, while 2.3 million dinars have been spent for the same purpose. So these are just some of the examples. It found that the funds spent on the name of the drug purchases from the pharmacy prescribed by the doctor, so the funds that were spent and there was no position, there was no legal basis. For example, the control showed that the Vrsac Municipal Court bought beer, wine, whiskey, vermouth, peanuts, figs, cheese crackers and the like, while only one coffee bill went to 23,205 dinars for the burden of the budget, or Serbian citizens. This was just four examples of how Serbia's courts have money from the budget, for example. In 2007 a total of 14. What's fraternizing here, the Justice Department has not filed charges against the responsible persons, which had a legal obligation, nor has their shift been initiated for illegal material finance business. And in this annual report, which is also on my right, which contains a summary of all 14 controls, says: "The report agrees with Minister Dusan Petrovic and has initialled the group's report on supervision and internal control of the justice ministry." So it can only confirm that Mr. Petrovic knew at that time that illegal and non-intentional funds were being spent from the budget. The state of Serbia has done absolutely nothing in this case. We, on the basis of this and some other examples that we will present during this debate in particular, can only understand that, let's say, the reduction of funds to the State Auditing Institution, the lack of a final account, is actually a cover-up of the illegal and non-intentional spending of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18428	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the MP Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18429	My colleagues would not forgive me, and I try to properly present them, as you can see, it is very difficult to cope with this huge number of materials, but also one of the fragrant things, and it is another example, since I cannot speak specifically about the amendment of my colleague Savić and, unfortunately, my fellow Members Mirovic. Also one example, which creates a suspicion that the funds that flow into the Republic of Serbia's budget are being spent in accordance with the legal norms, it is again state official data, it is an analysis of Serbia's 2008 agriculture. My colleague, Milorad Krstin, has given us all some frat information at the Parliament Club, because of the time I'm going to try to do it in a few sentences. From the 2008 budget, and here I am talking about the official report signed by Dr. Sasa Dragin, what was expected to go to direct subsidies of around 18 billion dinars. Dr Dragin says this way, of the 334 holdings that received grants in 2006, as much as 182 were non-intentional, part of the funds will go to direct donations to farmers, so the additional 100 euros per hectare are announced, 70 euros for the umatic cow, 90 euros for the bull, 150 euros for the cow's firstborn, and it is estimated that about 28,000 dinars were needed for a hectare in 2008. It further reflects the fact that out of the 334 holdings that received grants in 2006, out of those 182 were non-intentional, and that we did not receive any reaction from the competent state institutions. This can be understood in a way that the accidental and illegal spending of Serbian citizens is stimulated and that is indeed a serious problem. We would like to know in which way this will be transparent and whether this means that we will get all previous final accounts or at least in the perspective for this year we get the final account and the audit of the final account. Maybe we'd start a whole other discussion. Very likely, where the SRS will persist, to launch the responsibility of people who are directly, and not a heavy word, to steal money from the Serbian state's taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18430	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government accepted the amendment, the Finance Committee accepted this amendment, and the amendment became an integral part of the text. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18431	I'm very likely to get bored with all of you. Simply, I'm committed to my colleagues who are prevented from attending the budget rebalancing debate, and we think there is no more important issue for the opposition, and especially for the SRS. So as not to forget the continuity of the examples that I started to represent to the Serbian public here, I answer to the dilemmas of whether we will endure on this path, to file an account. One of the examples that was fraternized for us, again, is a plastic example of unintended spending of funds and the relations of the branches of the executive government compared to the court, my colleague Nemanja Sarovic sought to contribute to this debate. Among other things, after the control of the use of the city's budget for the period 2001-2002 was carried out, the minutes of the finance ministry, the budget inspection and audit sector were drawn up. Exactly, there has been an accounting number since 10 May 2004, requiring six grounds for the return of funds to the city's budget totaling 148m dinars. As the town of Belgrade left behind, the city administration did not report that it had acted according to the measures imposed in the minutes, the Financial Ministry's budget inspection and audit sector ordered a solution since 25 August 2004. Following an appeal made to this solution, the finance minister made a decision in the second-degree procedure since 20 October 2004, it was first-degreed that five out of six basics totalling 147m dinars. At the resolution of the finance minister, the city of Belgrade, or city administration, filed a lawsuit with the Supreme Court of Serbia. I mean this chronology. The indictment was rejected as of 13 July 2006, which exhausted the final legal possibility of contesting the finance ministry's solution. This is where the Treasury did their job. Serbia's Supreme Court confirmed. It means that, for six reasons, non-purpose funds have been spent and returned to the amount of 147 million dinars. It wasn't done until today. We're talking about 2009. The 146 million, with a tight interest, is now about 600 million dinars. At the same time, what is the problem and we are detecting it here, the government of the Republic of Serbia is reducing transfers to local self-government, and here we have a situation that 600 million dinars stand in the air, because the city government, or the administration of the city of Belgrade, is deafening the solution of the finance ministry and the solution of Serbia's Supreme Court. These are very plastic examples of the relationship to legality and the dedicated spending of funds. It is inadmissible that the responsible state official acted in an illegal and unintended manner without being called responsible. On the other hand, we have a position of reduced MIP, and then a logical question arises, in which way it will stand in the way of corruption and organised crime, who will risk his own safety, his head, to deal with criminals who are in line with the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18432	Thank you. I don't know where you get the idea that you're gonna get bored. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Elena Christmas-Talian submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Jadranko Vukovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Judita Popović and Slobodan Maras, and the MP Nenad Popovic, together submitted. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Maras, then Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18433	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, colleague Judita Popovic and I are coming from Vojvodina and we had to react to Article 2(2) and we suggested that it be deleted. Our motive was to devise the autonomy of the Vojvodina, and in particular to disenfranchise Vojvodina's autonomy in financial terms, this position of 2nd in Article 2 is fully valorised. Although constitutional solutions set out what should be the budget of the AP Vojvodina, through this position 2, and through the form of a ban on further deficits, it is in fact impossible to fulfil the constitutional obligation, thus extending the adoption of the Statutes of Vojvodina, i.e. adoption in the Assembly, as well as the law on the transfer of competence. Madam Minister, I must take this opportunity to remind you that the other day I quoted you as saying what you said in the media, namely that you said that 7%, as much as Vojvodina belongs or according to the Constitution of the budget, can be replaced by its own revenues. You made such a statement in the media. Today you are on the Committee on Finance on the direct question of Mr Pastor – whether there will be an amendment to the Government that would bring budget rebalancing into line with the Constitution, answer that it will not, or that through the memorandum, if I quote you well, and I think I quote well, you have said through the memorandum and two laws that will replace this issue, i.e. to be fulfilled. I remind you that I have asked a question – when will the law on the transfer of jurisdiction be passed. You on the press, after probably consulting, since I listened carefully, said that his application would be from June 1st. It doesn't matter if it's gonna be from 1 May or 1 June, it's important that the cake, and I use your words, starts to be spent. Madam Minister, with 100% certainty, I can say that it will in no way begin to apply the law on the transfer of jurisdiction from June 1st, because it will not be passed until then. That's why there are reasons why I believe you may not even know, but someone knows, and that's why it's been going through all the time. Something I wanted, and yet it is closely related to Vojvodina, and what we from the Finance Committee have received today on the board, is a letter that came from the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce, where the Association of Farmers of Vojvodina and the Central Association of Milk Producers attended at a meeting in the Chamber of Commerce among others. They say they had a meeting with you, with you, with the Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic, or that you are familiar, I apologize, and that Mr Dragin was with them at the meeting. They prayed that this rebalancing budget would not touch agriculture. I have to remind you that the 2009 budget has dramatically reduced the agricultural budget by about 20 percent. Now you're taking down 4.5 billion again, as far as I know, if I'm wrong about a hundred million you'll correct me. I'm not wrong? It's good. What's the big deal? Item 3 says in this letter -- they particularly point out that agriculture is the only business area that achieves a surplus in the external trade, and that there are still strong commitments of the 2008 budget to farmers. I know that you would like to please everyone, in that sense, that every ministry, and especially this Ministry of Agriculture, will receive adequate funds based on which they could continue, and each of our farmers with their own activity, or not be in a difficult financial situation. But here, you hit the peasant directly, you hit all the citizens directly through this rebalancing, but you hit the peasants as well. There's a lot to talk about in the time that's scheduled for LDP. I just want to remind you of something. The loss of the NIS Public Enterprise for 2008 is over three billion dinars. The loss of EPS for 2008 is 9.5 billion dinars. The loss of Telekom, more precisely half the profit in 2008. For what? You must remember that we bought Telekom Republika Srpska, so now it's time for the parts to be paid. Madam Minister, the problem is that no one is responsible for such failures, which public enterprises are doing with a loss, and then it's coming to the citizens' expense. I'm sure you know that what I'm saying is not a demagogue and that it's not an attempt to make some political points cheap, we've always tried to cooperate nicely. I've pointed out more than once, and now I have deep faith that you want the best possible way to do the job that you've been paid for and chosen to do, but obviously it doesn't work for you, not just for you, but for the entire government. You must give answers to the citizens of Vojvodina, not only when it comes to those 7%. That 7% is unfortunately our sad fact that it exists in the Constitution. The Duke belongs, of course, much more, not in the amount of money, but in a relationship that has republican authority towards Vojvodina. But how you treat those unfortunate people down in New Market, who cut their own fingers, it's no wonder how you treat those who are a little richer. I'm afraid we're all about to get a chance to have a big problem on how to survive. This budget rebalance will have a difficult impact on all citizens of Serbia. Please give us later answers to these questions: how will you resolve the issue constitutionally of 7%, what will happen to farmers, which is why this reduction, and when you will meet your obligations from 2008 to farmers, when someone will answer in this public enterprise, which is obviously a sacred cow in this society and can make losses, although they are complete monopolies. Of course, there are reasons why EPS can have a loss because they don't pay him some, but how long will you protect themselves? We need to lift the monopolies, the state audit institution has to do its job. Please answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18434	Thank you, Mr. Marash. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18435	Dear Mr. Chairman, it is strange that only after the pressure of the ambassadors from Vojvodina is this principle changed. We first said - there is not enough funds to honour the Constitution that 7% of the budget, guaranteed 7% for the AP Vojvodina budget, would exist, and now exist. What happened in the meantime? Is it really necessary every time that MPs put political pressure on the Constitution? It speaks of relations in the government and shows that this government does not really have any future, that the budget was made to meet the demands of coalition partners in power and the only way to resolve and to launch a solution to getting out of this economic crisis is to get this government out of the political scene. On the occasion of this amendment, I would say something about the AP Vojvodina budget, which is quite large, 68 billion dinars, but it is generally a huge administration and public spending in Vojvodina. Let me just say that the budget of the AP Vojvodina of 68 billion dinars is greater than the sum of the budgets of all local self-government from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. If she's having sex with local self-government, then I guess it makes sense to fuck the AP Vojvodina budget as well. We're really going to bring these local self-governments to a beggar stick, because this is the short cut that I think will put businessmen at risk, especially in the local environments. Why? Because the local businessmen only work where they can, they can't possibly participate in large tenders, I'm talking about small and medium-sized enterprises, they can participate in local tenders funded by local self-government. By cutting these funds, there will be a major blow to local businessmen. We've never heard of a way to save the country's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18436	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I have no record of whether the Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Yeah, probably. If so, then the amendment became an integral part of the text. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18437	In this article, we are talking about increasing the guarantees to be issued to the National Bank of Serbia, increasing from 40 to 60 billion dinars. The essence of this is liquidity, the liquidity of the economy. The security of liquidity should be the government's top priority at the time of the economic crisis, as I will repeat, 60,000 enterprises in Serbia are blocked, 20,000 companies are close to the blockade and a key problem for all these companies, economic operators is liquidity. Today, a practical payment has come down to asking someone to pay you, also talking to their suppliers, asking them to be patient while they are being paid, etc. That is why there was a proposal to increase the amount of guarantees issued by the National Bank of Serbia from 40 billion to 60 billion. I think the point is that we need to open a broad dialogue between the National Bank of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the business banks and the economy. Banks are only likely to be entities of Serbia's economic system that did good business in 2008. Their credit risk is really minimal. It can be said that today only 2% of citizens and only 2.8% of entrepreneurs are late in repaying loans, and we still have the largest interest in the region, we have the highest reference interest rate. It's a little cut now, but why is it so big? Why isn't it 8% or 9%? The banks today simply don't have that kind of risk, the problem is in the economy, which the economy can't get the credits. The problem is that the Development Fund would have to play a much stronger role, but if we stay with this amendment only with the banks, I think we need a broad dialogue between the NBS, the economy and the banks, because that's the only way banks can provide themselves with a safe future, and the economy is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18438	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 2 refers to public debt, more specifically to the external debt of our country that is too large, which we can't already repay, and that is one of the basic reasons why we entered into this arrangement with the IMF. What's a dissatisfaction with SNS is the dissatisfaction with the fact that we very little know about the arrangement itself, the conditions in that arrangement. The citizens of Serbia, I think, are creating a false picture of the IMF's well-intentionedness. The fact is quite different, above all, are the interests of bankers, the interests of those who have so far given us credits in front of Serbian citizens and that often arrangements with the IMF are capable of ending the abolition of various social benefits and that many countries in the world have very bad experience with arrangements with the IMF. Three billion euros is a large amount. It will significantly increase external debt, but what is a much bigger problem is private debt, what both the government and previous ministers did not recognise, that private debt is growing very fast, that it has a significant impact on the total amount of foreign debt and that it also affects the foreign currency liquidity of our country. What I want to stress, of course, about internal debts, about pensions, pensions, old-age foreign savings, that's what SNS supports, that's what it means, but it's high time we start treating ourselves more seriously and managing ourselves towards external debt, that there's one designed strategy that will be clear to all economic factors and the way we're going to be in charge in the future. We haven't had that until now, we've lived mostly on foreign loans, we've lived on sales through the privatisation of our businesses, and we've come into a situation that we can't hold a course today, we can't keep foreign currency liquidity without foreign credits, without these foreign exchange inflows, and what kind of situation will we just see in the next period. I think I missed one important thing, because of the citizens, when it comes to the arrangement with the IMF, the citizens need to know that what is signed with the IMF means that you have obligations under that fund, you accept certain obligations, that you cannot unilaterally change those obligations, that you are in a situation to effectively introduce bankruptcy over our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18440	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18441	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. I'll be very brief and specific. I sincerely hope that this amendment is also acceptable from your point of view, but I think that as a National Assembly, yes, and also as MPs of the National Assembly, this amendment should have been adopted, because above all, it concerns the supervisory role that parliament has and is never at liberty for the Assembly to give itself those powers that actually belong to it under the Constitution, which is to control the executive power. In fact, we're witnesses, we're actors because in the past period we've ratified, on a proposal from the government, a large number of loans, mostly for infrastructure facilities. We don't know what stage these loans are in. For many credits we have taken over certain obligations and these obligations are ongoing, but these loans are not realised, these projects stand. Let's say, an example of Belgrade's Gazal Bridge. I'm very interested in whether as a state, we've taken over certain obligations that we have as a state, and whether they run, on the one hand. On the other hand, why hasn't the Gazela project started to happen until today? Accordingly, it is one example, but I think my proposal and my amendment, which are heading towards each three months, to report to the National Assembly on the realisation of loans and the obligations that we have on these loans, are also acceptable to the government, and I think that Parliament is bound to do as well. So I would ask you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18442	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18443	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I just wanted to take the opportunity, since it's about Article 3, to ask Mrs. Minister. It says this, in 2009, a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia will be issued up to 130, a very large number, to business banks in part six and under point 5), says the Public Enterprise "Serbias" Novi Sad, to refinance the commitments achieved, build the pipeline and fill the necessary storage facility with the gas "Banatski dvor" 170m euros. I wanted to ask you, since you are part of the government that made that agreement with the Russian Federation about the South Stream, which obviously will not be, because the Bulgarian president is acting the way the president of each responsible state should behave, he said - there is no South Stream until you abolish the mediator in the gas purchase. I wanted to ask you if this prevention is for the sake of these 170m euros for the construction of the gas pipeline or the gas storage facility of the Banatski dvor, or if there is some obligation that the Russian Federation took over, or Gazprom, when it comes to the Banatski dvor, filling that warehouse with gas, putting it into office so that Serbia may not be in winter like last year and what kind of gas pipeline this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18444	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18445	I just touched through that Article 2 of Section 2 issue of these famous 7%. But it's not just that 7% of the problem, and we talk about this all the time, we're talking about a non-serious, but completely non-serious government, or a non-serious government attitude towards Vojvodina's autonomy. I must repeat, the Statute of Vojvodina was lost on the way from that building to this building. The Law on the Transfer of Jurisdiction, although we hear different comments from time to time from time to time from those in the working group, cannot reach the MPs. You checked today, and I am deeply convinced that you believe that this will happen in May. I guarantee it won't happen in May. So, we'll wait for that law. I repeat, although you are reducing the funds of the Vojvodina, although the constitutional obligation is not fulfilled, that is not the point. The bottom line is that you're devising autonomy, as you've been devising the Assembly here for months, as you're devising every aspect of this society -- that's how you think of Vojvodina's autonomy. Please find a way to answer, not the way you replied to Mr. Pastor. We were all members of the Committee, I guess, and all the journalists, confused by the answer you gave him. Obviously, only Mr. Pastor realized that we should continue, in the most beautiful way possible, to agree on whether the 7% will be fulfilled. On the Committee itself, I said - perhaps it is a solution, it doesn't have to say anything, let Mr Cvetkovic and Mr Pajtic, as when it comes to the 2009 budget, have a coffee, and agreed that 90% of the Privatisation Act from the sale of NIS will come to the province budget, so let them sit down now, find a solution and let us know, as well as last time, through a press release. I know you're in an ungrateful situation. Believe me, I would much prefer that, together with us from the opposition and with us from the LDP, you as government and you as finance minister to share responsibility, and when it comes to the past budget, and when it comes to the previous budget rebalance and when it comes to this budget rebalance. Unfortunately, you're making it all up. That's what I told you the day you spoke here when there was a debate in principle. The citizens, except for the mere figures, expected little and hope – a little, I can't say compassion, but a little light, that after all this, after this rebalance, so maybe in a year, two years, in three, we're all ready to give up, everyone in this room is ready to give up and probably everyone in society is ready to give up, but to know what's waiting for us. We don't see, and I believe even the citizens can't see, I'm sure they don't see what's waiting for us. We need a responsible government that will give way to which we need to go. Here you are extracting into an explanation of the global economic crisis. I know, it's politically justified, but it has nothing to do with reality. This is, above all, this rebalancing, the result of the pre-burdened 2009 budget and the previous rebalancing, that linear pension increase of 10%, when you didn't take care of the most vulnerable pensioners, but you had that obligation. That's what we told you the other day. Madam Minister, May 11 is long gone – reduce the government, be the first example, the real example of how it is being saved. I expect, I hope, during the day, an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18446	Thank you, Mr. Marash. Does anyone else want a word after the amendment? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18447	Ladies and gentlemen, of course you all remember what it looked like at the end of December last year when we were making a budget, whose replica we are now entering. You remember that somewhere in five to twelve maltenes, it was agreed that amendments that could not be processed would have been withdrawn and that it had been seriously acted by a parliamentary group, who wanted to withdraw from the story for the sake of the Kobajagi good Serbia, and then we talked about Article 4, which is now being re-invested by the amendment, which was guaranteed by the Privatisation Act – right, according to the agreement of two prime ministers, that 90% of NIS sales would be calculated automatically on the grand jury account of the Vojvodina budget. And then we saw, right back in February, that half of the NIS funds, about 18 and some billion, were transferred to the Vojvodina budget, which we recently heard was about 60 billion. So close to a third of the funds is guaranteed a budget from the sale of NIS. The remaining 40%, which we again underline beyond the Privatisation Act, as agreed by the two ministers, shall be succesfully at that time, and surely when the law is passed on the transfer of jurisdiction, then one real basis will be created, again, contrary to the beliefs of other MPs, however, the real budget of Vojvodina will be financed. What went down to 400 million was 400 million. Some bank that was being discussed, though. Now the bank's pi-ar came forward and said they don't have a particularly large commission. We don't know how that bank was chosen and how the money came into it, but what's there. Serbia's conditional and formal budget has that in Belgrade, but when necessary, the money will go up. So, what I'm saying is, in the conditions that we now have, in front of this burden of this crisis, which is then, because the government was in some other kind of problem, or whether it would remain constant, in the same composition, after that, if we don't adopt the budget, now do with some of the poorer municipalities that are abolishing part of the transfer funds. Take the example of the municipality of Knic in which the 236 million budget, i.e. the transfer funds, is 98 million, so that is more than 40%. Whatever the minimum percentage, which will be a significant percentage, the removal of the transfer funds, due to the greater rationalisation proposed by the Government -- will cost that undeveloped municipality of greater denials than can be expected for those who persist, and probably with the right as far as possible, the struggles for the position of preserving the competence of the Vojvodina budget and supplementing, to cross those 7% of these ideal conditions. So we suggest that the position of the 5th Article 4. The law we're changing is being erased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18448	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18449	Mr. Chairman, in 2008, the profit tax was shared between the province and the Republic in comparison to 42.7 to 57.3. The income tax left the province of Vojvodina a 40% stake. When we calculate that, we have data that in the first three quarters of 2008 18.65 billion taxpayers and 7.50 billion taxpayers were charged in the province. In Vojvodina, according to the company's profit tax, 3.20 billion dinars remained, and 10.46 billion dinars and this is how the Vojvodina budget in 2008 reached not 7% but 8% of the Republic's budget. Why are we saying this? We must respect the Constitution. The constitution says it's 7% and it can't be less, but it can't be any more. There is legislation, there is a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it must be respected. I am also returning to the fact that austerity measures must also apply to the province's administration, and the scope of the province's budget must be reduced to a level that is more acceptable to all taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia. That is why the amendment and proposed that most of the tax liabilities, the revenues mentioned in this position, remain with the Republic – because the Constitution is basic and must be respected, no more, no less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18450	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The Committee accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the text. The First Amendment was submitted to Article 5 by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted to Article 5 of the amendment by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. The government has accepted the amendment. The amendment has been accepted by the Committee and it has become an integral part of the text, but you have a word in time that your parliamentary group has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18451	It would be wrong not to know what the amendment has been accepted, and the only amendment that has been adopted. The amendment I have tabled on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, concerns funds for the work of the Republic Election Commission. The proposal for this rebalancing said that 37 million 410 000 were intended for RIK's work, and we suggested that the amendment cut it to 17 million 410 000 and it now turned out enough that it was enough for RIK to work as the eight members of that commission to receive compensation in the last year. The remaining 17 million will be paid in a year for 34 members of the Election Commission an average plan on how limited and compensation is for all board members. They still have three million 538 grand left for the rest of the expenses. Thanks to Mrs Dragutinovic for having the understanding and adoption of this amendment, I want to point out one very important thing. The salaries of RIK members were related to the salary of MPs and amounted to 80% of that salary. So they received 60,000 dinars a month. For ad hoc work a monthly fee has been introduced for members of RIK. Let the government remember when and why it was done, and RIK is no exception. Why were the messengers a rapper? At that time, they had a high salary and nobody cared whether in a similar procedure the members of the RIK were running as MPs, are they so chosen, what kind of later engagements they have and preparations for work on the ground, on local committees, on television shows, are they responsible for every publicly spoken word? The public mostly didn't even know who the RIK members were. It was later learned that they were relatives and friends of those who were actually MPs and prominent members of political parties. However, the public and journalists have wasted many gallons and inks to defile both the reputation and the work of the MPs, while the RIK gentlemen have received fines in a year over two million, which they have set for themselves, and they have not paid a penny of taxes, because the words - elections, as electoral actions, have freed them from all obligations to the state. Their likeness with the MPs was in that one word - the elections. And at one point they became all the more important, and the professional services that work in the Republic Assembly, and RIK, and the Government, which, signing or not signing orders, exerts direct and indirect pressure on the legislative authority, which, by the way, not by intentional means, these MPs, we MPs, those you see, good or bad, but elected in the ordinary procedure, we need to control the current authority, and the branch that is supposed to be equal to us. How did it become possible for everyone else to be more important, more esteemed, more paid and not be a thorn in the public eye? I'll offer you my answer. Parliament consists of MPs of the ruling and opposition parties. This belonging of the government or the opposition so separates them and distinguishes them that everyone has played that card of discord, causing damage to everyone, destroying parliament's reputation in an inappropriate way. Let us all work together to return this reputation, but also to the working conditions of the MPs, and thank once again for the government's understanding of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18452	Thank you. I apologize, Mrs Tabakovic, since the Legislative Committee has not yet sat down and has not accepted the amendment, the amendment is not yet an integral part of the text, so you have not actually used the full time, but only one part of that time. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Milica Radovic submitted to Article 5 of the First Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Boris Aleksic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the Third Amendment, MP Kenan Hajdarevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18453	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment that I submitted on behalf of the LDP requires a radical rationalisation of the system of ministries and government agencies and bodies in Serbia, because how else do we explain the fact that today we have two ministries dealing with the regional development of undeveloped areas, one office and the agency? On the ground from month to month, the situation is getting worse, i.e. the relationship between developed and undeveloped areas, i.e. the region in Serbia is one to seven, while the relationship between developed and undeveloped municipalities in the Republic of Serbia is one to twenty. It is therefore unacceptable for the LDP to be at the expense of the so-called "LDP". Special services under contract under the Office for Sustainable Development of Developed Areas spends as much as 17 million dinars, or more than 10% of the total budget of this office. While this budget rebalancing envisions the most likely linear reduction of transfer funds to all municipalities and thus underdeveloped municipalities, the government of the Republic of Serbia has done nothing to reform these local self-governments, i.e. municipalities, thus trying to cut their costs. Instead of forming various agencies and bodies to deal with underdeveloped municipalities, the government should make it possible for private entrepreneurs in underdeveloped municipalities to develop their jobs, to start with those private entrepreneurs who used or used loans from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, and to pay them annuity in this year, to reprogramme their obligations, for example, for a year, because if the Serbian government can ask foreign banks, it is the least it can do to its private entrepreneurs in underdeveloped municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18454	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 17. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Šormaz to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Srdjan Spasojevic submitted an amendment ahead of the NS parliamentary group asking for a portion of the funds to be allocated to the implementation of the European chess championship, a chess team held in October 2009 in Novi Sad. I must say that the chess union of Serbia has long fought a battle to gain the organisation of such a significant competition, that as a country in the world's very top as regards chess as a sport, which is an extremely important sport, precisely in the care of the nation's mental health and that all serious states invest extremely much in this sport, which in itself is not profitable, but the results of investments in chess are certainly far more far-reaching and efficient measures through the development of society. For several years now, we have witnessed attempts by chess enthusiasts in our country to introduce chess as an electoral class at school. It is, for now, just an attempt at the beginning, which gives minor effects on the ground as well, but I think that the state of Serbia, primarily because of the representativeness of this competition, because of its importance, because of its place in the world and the reputation it enjoys, would certainly need significant resources to help organise this event in October 2009. I expect that if this amendment is not adopted, the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will find an opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18456	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, Section 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, Section 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 3 and 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 19 of the amendment. The word has been given by MP Zlata Djeric, the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18457	Given that the amendment submitted by my colleague Miroslav Markicevic and who I have submitted to the same member, one behind the other, is sufficient to report on only one amendment, and they are very similar, because we have provided that some of the funds are defined from that famous item in the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister – services under contract, from one item that we consider to be unwarrantedly high and wasteful, and that, above all, the citizens of Serbia, are to be defined as an item in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where these funds are much more necessary, and these are children and family, disabled and sick. We believe that by adopting one of these two amendments, or both of these amendments, the Government would indeed make significant assistance at this time, where it is necessary, necessary and important. It's clear to us that this whole budget rebalance is extremely problematic, the question of its realization in every respect and every moment, the analysts we have the opportunity to see here, the data synthesis we're not able to see, it would be very interesting, if we were to deal with it, but by submitting the amendments we didn't want to endure a large number of amendments, aware that the whole budget rebalancing is actually being asked, and that we're only making it an attempt to do something in a few places, like the one with the glass of water in the fire, make it easier. What the government would have to take into account, that's what the minister was talking about, that's exactly the revenue side on which there are no significant activities, so passing the streets of Belgrade you can see these days, never, like so far, those red stamps on the shops. When we opted for these amendments, to help those who are at this point the most socially endangered, and if these services were to be cut off by contract, at least in these cabinets that could be completely dislocated, so that the citizens would get off their backs, I'd say just one of the nonsensics that got in my eye. I saw the red seal on Dubrovnik Street at the Association, at the Sports Fishing Club, these are the people who come in there in rubber boots, who bring wet crates, sell maybe a kilo of babus and drink coffee or beer at a symbolic price. So they broke the fiscal business law. And some others, we all know that, which are huge and big, which, even in this crisis, will not get those red stamps. About this income and our ordinary, painful, everyday wasteful side, it takes both the government and the finance minister to make an effort and to see how it can be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18458	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment, MP Lidija Vukicevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the third amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic.. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so many stories about saving the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I can say that this is the largest and most expensive government that exists in Serbia's recent democratic history. I have submitted an amendment to these famous cabinets of vice-presidents of the government and I have tried with my amendment to unite the expenses of all four vice-presidents who lead each to themselves. Some Serbian citizens know we currently have four deputy prime ministers. Of the four Deputy Prime Ministers, the three ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia have their own cabinets, but they do not have the cabinet they have in the ministries, they already want to have a special cabinet as deputy prime minister. For the public, the first Deputy Prime Minister, or Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, will spend on his cabinet 34m, 773,000 dinars. The second Deputy Prime Minister, the famous Duke of Meridian Bank, who is also Minister for Science and Technological Development, also has his vice-presidential cabinet in charge of the area of European integration. He will spend close to 40 million dinars this year on Serbian citizens, missing 5,000, not to sin on my soul. The most interesting thing is with Mr Dinkic, he is Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, but he is also Minister of Economy and Regional Development. I can understand, there are different areas here, so maybe someone needs a counselor who's not in his home ministry, but I'm interested in why Mr Dinkic will spend 32 million on the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister who is the parallel organ of his same ministry. Not to mention the vice president of the government who rarely tells the truth when it comes to profits, when it comes to pensions, etc., but anyway, he's gonna spend 20 million, he's been somewhat more modest. I would like for this amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Advanced, Serbia-SNS, to stand up and to the ambassadors, who for weeks reverse the reputation of the National Assembly and the People's MPs, and on behalf of the savings to accept this amendment. Unfortunately, they're still just friars, because they're not here in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18460	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. Does anyone want a word? Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18461	In light of this budget rebalance, among other things, it also states that this rebalance is foreseen under the programme of measures to mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis that has reached Serbia as well. I would like to remind this government that the state of Serbia has been in a very serious crisis for 20 years, so this global economic crisis only complements this crisis that has already been permanent for so many years. The LDP proposes serious rationalisation as far as the ministries are concerned, because if we really want to do the savings that will produce the results, then that savings must be concrete and rational, and not just this way as the government has suggested. We proposed that the foreign ministry reduce its costs, i.e. to reduce the serious amount, since this was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that showed its inefficientness and its wrong work by forcing this state to pay off, due to Miladin Kovacevic, $900,000 to a foreign state or family that suffers certain consequences due to the inadequate behaviour of our citizen Miladin Kovacevic. That's 35 million dinars. Since these funds are intended to be allocated from our budget, then the Foreign Ministry must suffer certain consequences, in this amount and reduce what is intended for the foreign ministry. We also suggest that a certain amount is rationalised and envisaged by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, given that this ministry, in today's time a very serious crisis, does not give effect, does not give reason to raise a billion 136 million dinars to the ministry. That is why we have suggested that this amount be reduced to 800 million dinars, and that amount is too large, but if that ministry already exists, we propose that the reduction of funds provided for this ministry be reduced. As far as the Public Relations Office is concerned, we're asking the question of why this co-operation office, since the drastic example in this office is one part of which predicts the costs of so-called. Special services under contract which have an impact on the media, so it is not transparent enough what these funds are intended to be spent on this office. So it's one way to cut those costs. As for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and in this ministry, we have opportunities to make serious savings, because that ministry, for example, has some great costs, some special services under contract. It's not transparent, it's not clear what these costs are for, so if that's the case, and we're really up for some savings, to cut public costs, then we should also, in that sense, cut the cost of the ministry. In particular, because Article 2(2) of the budget rebalancing is foreseen that the deficit cannot be increased in any way, it is already rumored that the rebalancing is already in the autumn, even in the event that certain competencies are granted to Vojvodina, under the Constitution, or the law on the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina. If we're so strict about the AP Vojvodina, then we could be a little stricter about the costs of these ministries that we listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18462	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 3 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18463	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. The substance of the amendment is that the travel costs of the government's General Secretariat are reduced by 50 million, and the money is transferred to the distribution of the Ministry of Environment Protection, because there are several cities with very serious environmental problems in Serbia. Knowing that the transfer funds to local self-government will be reduced to a significant extent and that local self-government will not be able to solve these major environmental problems, I considered it necessary to transfer these funds from the travel costs of the General Secretariat of the Government to this division of the Ministry of Environment Protection. I also submitted a similar amendment when the budget was proposed, meaning in December 2008. At that time, the answer was that these funds would significantly reduce, i.e. incapacitate the functioning of the General Secretariat of the Government. Okay, that's your explanation, but it's an opportunity to open up a far more significant topic. So at the meeting of the Health Committee, there was a question of fate and a display of money collected from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, reaching 27 billion dinars. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, 27 billion dinars. The projected deficit is 70 billion dinars. So look at the ratio. It is impossible to find that item either in the revenue side of the Republic Health Insurance Institute or in the income side of the Ministry of Health. So the question arises: how much do we really spend on Serbia's health? In addition, Serbian citizens pay about 330m euros to the private sector, without a book, so that total spending in Serbia's health exceeds the sum of three billion euros. These are very big problems. I think it's high time for the Ministry of Health to give some notice and say who has this 27-billion-dollar sum, which is how it's being spent, whether it's being spent by institutions or being spent in some other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18464	On Article 5 of Section 3, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 34, 39 and 55, MP Milan Lapcevic submitted the amendment. Mr. Lapcevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18465	Dear Chairman, there are currently fifteen members of the ruling coalition in the hall. This only says how much respect the ruling parties have for this parliament, and it is not the first case that such an important topic is being discussed in the Republic Parliament without the majority MPs being present. The country's prime minister, who is also an economic expert, did not come to the Republican Assembly to clarify the basic instrument of combating the economic crisis, which is called the budget, but therefore came to his parliamentary group – the DS, to explain to them how the budget rebalancing would take place, but could not come to the parliament's meeting. If the first man of the government does not respect parliament, if MP G17 plus or the head of the parliamentary group itself says the Republic government controls parliament and destroys parliament's reputation, then it will not be respected by MPs of the ruling majority. That's why we from the opposition want to talk about this basic instrument of combating the crisis the way we see it. So in Article 5, I suggested that additional savings be made in certain sections, mostly in those places concerning travel and services costs under contract, which we talked about when we adopted the budget that they were enormously high. You remember, for example, that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development had a budget proposal for 2009 in its 60 million dinar division for this year, now it's halved to about 30 million, and there are some 30 million items that can be much less. Based on this and some other bases, savings have been made from some six billion dinars, which are projected to reduce deficits, i.e. to increase transfers to local self-government, in the sense that local self-governments do not cancel a single dinar. Also projected is the increase in subsidies for the backlogs of the workers of the electronic and machine industry, and the workers of the flag are predicted by who knows which way to pay back earnings, so I believe that workers of electronic, machine and other factories from Nis are not workers of the second order. In this way, savings could be made, and for those who need it most, money would be forwarded from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18466	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18467	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have no intention of obstructing any kind, but I would like to remind you of what it says in Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, where it is defined in the 1st position that the National Assembly is working on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours. However, Article 4 states that an extraordinary president of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work even after 1800 hours, if there are justified reasons, etc. Now, let me tell you right now, in principle, I wouldn't mind doing more than 1800 hours today, because it's a very important topic that needs to be finished. But unfortunately, TV broadcasts are gone. According to the manner of our state television, which is more like private television, and not like the state television that the people pay, or which we all pay, the delayed footage of this session will start around half a dozen nights, and it will end up, I guess, somewhere at three in the morning, when it's generally known that everyone is watching television. Since this is not just any law, but a law that is very important, to say the most important law that any, even our Assembly, adopts at least once a year, this can mean that it is passed multiple times. Since I think it's a law that directly entangles all citizens of Serbia, I'm simply free to suggest that, since there is no obvious will for this continuation to be passed, to finish work for today and to continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Just one more sentence, this team before the Finance Committee reports on the amendments and the government are yet to be received. So there's a chance that it'll all be regulated by 10:00 a.m. tomorrow. I thank and apologize for the overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18468	These hours and thirty minutes will be transferred in a delayed transmission, as you said yourself. The government's opinion on the amendments you have just received, the work has been extended by a timely announcement from the chairman, Mrs. Komic, and I can only add that we will not work longer than 20.00 hours today. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Jovan Damjanovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment, Slobodan Vuković submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment, MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The third amendment was submitted to Article 5 of the amendment by Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Stefan Zankov submitted to Article 5 of the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the third amendment, MP Igor Becic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5th of the amendment, MP Zoran Babic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment, MP Jelena Budimirovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment, MP Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic to the 5th Sections 3 and 19th. The word has Mr. Radulović
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18469	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who will be watching this TV broadcast after 11:30 last night, this amendment refers to services under contract at the Office for Media Cooperation. My amendment is that paragraph 13,470,000 dinars are deleted, I believe that this is a completely unnecessary item for this Office for Media Cooperation and that these funds should be used by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in the item for social contributions to the family with children. I think in these moments of a major economic crisis, when a huge number of people are out of work, these funds are needed and needed by those families whose foster parents, so to speak, are out of work. We have a trend that practically every month around 800 companies are blocked, that about 10,000 workers are out of work. There is an increasing need for these people for certain social benefits. I'm surprised the Ministry has not shown its will to accept this amendment. Especially at a time when the social product drops from 3.5% planned, the minister herself said it would be a negative trend to -2%, and some estimates are that it would be even -5%, maybe even -10%. Obviously, and I end up with this office for media co-operation through the need for the government to show one virtual Serbia in which it all flourishes. We saw the other day that it was loudly announced and in all the reports there was a recycling of a South car, that the practical thing to do is to see everything works, and basically we have every month that at least 10,000 workers are out of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18470	Thank you. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, was submitted by Jadranka Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was submitted by Vladan Jeremic to Article 5. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was submitted by Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Žutić to Article 5. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 5th Amendment, Radis Ilic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 8th Amendment, MP Petar Jojic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 8th Amendment, Natas Micic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 8th Amendment, Natasa Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 5 of the 9th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 9th Amendment was submitted by Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted to Article 5 by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted to Article 5 by Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted to Article 5 by Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 5 of the 11th Amendment by Milorad Krstin. The government has accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic to Article 5 of Sections 12 and 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18471	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from KIM and I had to respond to this amendment on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group to the first budget rebalance for 2009. Maybe I wouldn't have to if the 2009 budget hadn't been cut by 36% compared to 2008, as far as KIM's concerned. I remind you that the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija has drawn up the text of a sustainable survival strategy and the return of Serbs and non-Albanians to KIM. The strategy covers economic development for the period 2009-2015. Since no resources are provided for a sustainable strategy, I have proposed an amendment to the following content – in Article 5 division 12 of the 160 EC 499 – reserve funds, the amount of 1.575.000 is changed by 1,075,000. In the same article split 25. The KIM ministry, function 110, economic classification 551, amounting to 185 million 077 is changed by 685 million 077, which means that with these 500 million dinar amendments, I support a sustainable survival strategy and the return of Serbs and non-Albanians to KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18472	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Đuric to article 5 of Sections 12, 14 and 55 of the amendment. The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18473	Mr Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. The bill, which I have proposed to reduce the budget reserve by 500 million and to reduce the funding for the Republic Authority's joint work services by 100 million by 100 million and increase agricultural subsidies for these 600 million. In fact, the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia has been significantly reduced compared to 2008, and you propose to further cut these funds by budget, thus bringing our agricultural producers into an extremely difficult situation, especially after the government's completely wrong decision on a unilateral application of the trade agreement, which exposes our agricultural products to competition with agricultural products from EU countries, where subsidies are far greater and several times larger than we do. I believe that under the conditions of the economic crisis, these funds should be increased, in order to facilitate the position of our agricultural producers, and that is why I urge you once again to consider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18474	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic to article 5. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think as I appear here and Mrs Dragutinovic on the other hand, I think she knows what I'm going to talk about, because she as one reasonable woman in December helped pretty much with this problem that I mentioned back then. I'm undermining him again because the veterinary associations are asking for my help, because they think you're jeopardizing the health of Serbian citizens. To make myself as clear as possible, I'm going to start with some very simple diameters. You know that in the last month, chicken smuggling from Kosovo and in other parts of Serbia was an extremely big problem from which smugglers had and how much they got, and the health of Serbian citizens was also threatened, especially the health of pregnant women and children. Of course, it is an American chicken that is full of hormones that cannot go to the European market, but as you can see, it can go to the Serbian market and endanger the health of Serbian citizens. Another example of me is this famous story from a few days ago, a swine flu virus, of which 80 and more people died in Mexico, and which, since the world is a global village, and how it can seriously endanger the lives of Serbian citizens. I have one more thing to say. The question here is, what is the Serbian government doing? In December, DSS MPs persuaded the government to raise funds in the primary animal health budget and it partially increased it, but since you had 780 million debts, those funds were not enough even then for primary animal health. If you are looking at a national programme to prevent the health of domestic animals, this programme, if fully implemented, would cost two billion and 640 million, and you have defined only a billion and 806 million 322 million by means of rebalancing. I must say that any normal can imagine what kind of problems can make us not having primary protection for the health of domestic animals, what consequences can arise for the livestock fund, for the health of Serbian citizens, and how they can also be created for the status of Serbia in the EU, which you say you are seeking and want to sell animal products. I have one more thing to remind you, prevention is like always the cheapest, and it's especially important, seeing as it's your mailbox, there's no alternative, it's obvious that prevention in the protection of the health of domestic animals has no alternative. I'll just remind you of the economic parameters. Recovering one infection, only one infection and destroying animals is something that costs 12 times more than if you define those means in prevention. I don't want to talk about other parameters, how much you expose Serbian citizens to the danger of being sick and everything. I must remind you of another fact, gentlemen. Today is the end of April, the prevention of the health of domestic animals has not even begun, and you have not paid much of the debt you had according to the veterinary service. I sincerely ask you and again I appeal to you as a reasonable woman to understand what I'm talking about today, so I ask you to really take care of it. I see that in an explanation why you refused my amendment, you wrote that the rebalancing provided for more funds than the budget had been determined. That's right, but again you haven't considered the debt you've made to this service in the past year, and I have to tell you that the preventive protection of any disease has not begun. So take care of it and please find a way to adopt this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18476	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 13th Amendment was submitted by Gojko Radic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 14th Amendment was submitted to Article 5 by Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 14th Amendment was submitted to Article 5 by Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, Honored Madam Minister, the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia-Tomislav Nikolic refers to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and in the work relating to the General Secretariat, i.e. the problems of the water industry. In practice, I suggested that the resources of the General Secretariat be deleted for one very simple reason. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia does not have enough resources to finance the basic elements of agricultural production, i.e. its necessary factors, so that, in practice, this amendment provides for the abolition of unnecessary administration, and for the benefit of course, agriculture. When it comes to the role of the state in the area of water use and protection, we face a number of problems. These problems are partly institutional but excessively financial. In Serbia, there are institutions for water management and management, but they are not sufficiently adapted to the modern concept of water management. However, the financial situation of the economy is much more serious, as is unfortunately the whole of agriculture, because it is, in the least, in a very difficult situation. It could be thought that it is actually inevitable, given the global economic but economic situation in Serbia. However, the SNS believes that the situation is worse than it should even be, even in such an economic crisis. The main problem is that, in the highest authorities, there is not enough understanding for the water industry, and for this reason only Mrs. Finance Minister is present, but not someone from the Government, or the Minister of Agriculture, with all due respect to Mrs. Finance. I don't think you're an adequate talker, at least on the subject of agriculture, I think you'll agree with me. I don't know how much this all makes sense. Water must not be neglected until other economic problems have been solved, as this can endanger the practical development of the entire economy. I come from the municipality of Novi Becej, I am too close to being inhabited by Jasa Tomic so easily that I can forget him, I think you will all remember. With the Ministry of Agriculture's persistent reduction in funding in this part of the water industry, there is a possibility, especially in a poor country such as Serbia, in times of crisis to come up with, unfortunately, something similar. This would be a challenge not only for the water industry but for the state and society. I don't think I have time anymore, so I'm going to have to cut back a little bit, in anticipation of our gradual involvement in Europe, Serbian water industry must have a vision, as you would say, of a European future. Starting with this long-term goal, preparations must be started in time to accept the implementation of European institutional and financial models in the form of a water economy, as technical and ecological standards in all water business activities, but also to provide Serbian citizens with drinking water, for which you do not care. For that reason, on behalf of the SNS, I have submitted this amendment. I hope you have enough hearing and this amendment to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18478	Thank you. Member of the 5th Sections 14 and 15th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic. The word is Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18479	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, could you please start at the beginning as many party minutes as we have available?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18480	Four more full minutes plus two.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18481	Thank you. In front of the Prosperity Group, I have submitted to Serbia an amendment to Section 14 of the economic classification 4.5.1. relating to subsidies, because our opinion as a parliamentary group is highly unacceptable that in this scope, as envisioned by budget rebalance, a reduction in the assets of the Agricultural Budget and, in particular, the means to deal with the subsidisation of agricultural production, for several reasons. The first reason is certainly an unmistakable debt to agricultural producers from 2008, currently amounting to about two billion dinars. What Mrs. Vojnikla said earlier, Mr. Batic, that the debts of the veterinary service exist as unsettled, absolutely stands. The truth is, about half of it's settled somewhere, about 500 million, but another 500 million is a debt that isn't settled. The implementation of the animal health programme should now begin, i.e. She should've left by now, and the veterinary profession can't work unless she's got something to work with. What's even worse is that besides these unsettled resources, our country must, as well as everyone else, help this one of the most significant economic activity in our country, and above all through that so-called. Market subsidies or market measures, payment per unit of area. The promise is that 12,000 dinars per ha will be paid. We currently have registered around 333,074 holdings with 1,600,000 ha of farmland. If you just multiply it by 12,000 dinars, you can see what the number is. Furthermore, it should be possible, encouraged, encouraged, encouraged by the genetic improvement of livestock farming, the payment of milk premiums. Incentive of agricultural exports, in addition to all the difficulties it has experienced during 2008 an external trade surplus. Purchase of equipment, machinery, raising of long-term plantations etc., all this is something that requires far more resources than planned. Even this promised to hire 4,600,000 from the Agricultural Development Fund is on a long stick, because it is something that should be realised, whether it will all depend on what kind of budgetary realisation will be and whether we will be waiting for the new budget rebalancing autumn. Therefore, there should have been hearing and acceptance of this amendment, from the position of the Ministry of Economy, in the area related to subsidies, to be transferred here for the area of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18482	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Forward Serbia Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wish we could discuss animal protection because it's one area ignored by the Minister of Finance. Even by answering why she didn't accept the amendment, she said it was left to the Ministry of Economy, which defined what funds should be invested in order to have a balanced economic development this year. Turns out we're making funds for economic development, not survival. With that in mind, I must, within the time that belongs to the parliamentary group, introduce you to the fact that you and the people have not been protected, so don't even worry about how we're going to protect the cattle. Today, the SNS delegation was in Novi Pazar. We've visited desperate people. In your name I was there, shaken by the situation and what I saw in those people. We visited Zoran Bulatovic, who self-inflictedly drew the Serbian public's attention to a 16-year-old problem. Please, ma'am, you'll probably be on a team that has to solve this problem, in a state where they're willing to stay with their apparently union leader, although it's a group of textiles, not a union organization, but anyway, and ready to prove to him that they're committed to sacrifice themselves, so that those who don't feel it, prove to us how difficult it is when you haven't had a single cent of income for 16 years, or when the state cheats you, so you promise you solve the problem, you don't sue and you don't bring a litigation, and the state cheats on you. First of all, I ask Mr. Journalists not to call Zoran Bulatovic a lunatic, it's a very intelligent and smart man, physically on the verge of endurance, but mentally completely healthy, who managed to block out the Serbian public and soulless who know nothing about the problems of textiles in Novi Pazar. There are about 1,400,1,000 Muslims, 400 Serbs, and they're all like one soul and they're all looking for a solution to the problem. They promised us by Friday, please, ma'am, to influence that, by Friday they won't radicalize their strike, I guarantee nothing from Friday. You have plenty of time, you have enough data, you have to do a little teamwork, a few ministries to get involved. The problem is huge. I know you don't have the resources in the budget to correct all the debts the state has towards them, even according to court decisions, but start from mother to child, start from old and powerless, correct that injustice. By the way, on the faces of the people I met today, I saw the determination to do everything with them not others. Keep that in mind, they don't do it out of their minds, they don't do it because they don't hurt them, they just do it so that those of us who still live very well in this Serbia would draw attention that there are people who haven't had anything for days, years to take to their children. So please, miss the development story, let go of the prosperity story, this is the year in which every citizen of Serbia should survive, first they are the poorest, then everyone else, and so are we who have solid and stable incomes every month on the same day. You'll probably be making budget rebalances. Avoid the budget users who entered it 20-30 years ago, so now, after automation, they have the means and you've taken 26% off of them, so now you're bragging about how they got less than 26% of the budget. So, without the intention of acting politically on you in any way, I appeal to you as to, I suppose, mother, I'm sorry if you're not, I really don't know your situation. There were many small children there, whose parents closed down and no longer wanted any contact with anyone, nor with their children, so as not to distract them from their intentions, and believe that there are over 50 who have entered what Zoran Bulatovic first started. So I must urge you to start Mr. Cvetkovic, and the Prime Minister sitting here at Andric's wedding, to do everything possible. Believe me, for one decision like that, you'll have at least SNS support, I don't know about others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18484	To Article 5. Split of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 5. Split of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic to Article 5 of Sections 14 and 15 of the amendment. Mr Popovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18485	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable indeed, that I will repeat this for the fifth time, to reduce the redundancies for the economy. How are we going to stimulate economic activity by reducing economic isolation? We're reducing the economy ministry by nine billion, and that might be the only good thing, because it's not going to some ski resorts and some of our minister's projects. Generally, I think it is wrong as a principle – the NIP has been reduced by 9 billion, by 4.5 billion agriculture. Of course, the second question is how are these funds used. We know the Ministry of Economy has introduced some new principle of state entrepreneurship. Soon as they started to buy equipment for Bor, as they started with the "Fiita", this privatisation process was completely unnecessary and soon, instead of the Privatisation Agency, I repeat this for the third time in the Assembly, we will have a state-owned company management agency – maybe it's fate too, I don't know. Of course, in this amendment, I would like to say one thing about the protection of domestic producers – these are these public procurements and tenders. Today, domestic producers are indeed in a completely unequal position in these public procurements, because besides this 20% preference, it is not exactly defined what a domestic product is. The domestic product has its substance, it must have 51% domestic production in some countries or 75% - it's now a matter of debate. We cannot undefinedly have a clear – what is a domestic product. They come from foreign companies, they open up here some daughter company or representativeship and product that they practically imported and that's 99% foreign sales here also as a domestic product with a preference. I also want to say that it is very important to say that today, in terms of economic crisis, state protectionism, which has been like a negative category or economic patriotism that has always been talked about – these are no longer floscules, this should be the essence of what this government should be doing, because we have to protect domestic production. That's the way to think about these preferences more than 20%. It may be a lot of 30%, but 25% would probably be real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18486	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic to Article 5 of Sections 15 and 20 of the amendment. The word is Mrs. Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18487	With the amendment, I propose an increase in funding for the Ministry of Science and Technology, which is an increase of 35 million dinars. The increase, i.e. the funds would be removed from the department of economy and regional development, functions – tourism, and grants to NGOs. Ten million dinars would remain in that position. We have just received an explanation why our amendments have been rejected – this amendment has been rejected, or is not accepted for the reason that the reduction of funds, meaning by NGOs, would endanger the activity of this ministry in the field of tourism. Please, I hope that tourism in Serbia does not depend on the activity of the NGO sector and citizens' associations. So this explanation of yours is not acceptable to me. In difficult times, science must have priority and more resources for research projects must be allocated. The DSS is addressed daily by individual institutes. I think the other MPs are talking to each other. I will list the Association of Researchers of the Institute of Humanistic Sciences, the Institute of Multidisciplinary Research and the Institute of Physics. All scientific institutes in Serbia have been having a problem with elementary functioning for four months – late earning employees' researchers; material cost funds are mostly late and are not paid regularly and are completely missing funds for scientific research, i.e. for projects. Most of the time, these institutes depend heavily on and live on the projects they participate in. So, scientific institutes are the most valuable intellectual resource of our country. I am aware of the depths of the economic crisis, but no society in history has sought the solution to its problems in destroying the best that it has.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18488	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 5. Section 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras, who has the word
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18489	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honors Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Section 15 of Article 5 - Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The point is to reduce services under contract, which are foreseen for this ministry from 200 million to 50 million. Regardless of the time, I would like to read the explanation, because I think that when citizens, when they look at this in a delayed video, it will be very interesting how the argument sounds – which is why the amendment is rejected that the self-proclaimed prime minister, the finance minister, the economy minister, the government's spokesman reduces this asset? It says - the amendment is not accepted, given that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is now saying, in line with its tasks in its jurisdiction, monitoring and analysing the economic system in the area of privatisation, coordinating business in relation to the ownership of businesses with investors, proposing property, organisation or financial restructuring of enterprises, creating a strategy and measure of economic policy for the management of industrial development, implementation of adopted programmes and measures, economic measures to improve general conditions and... The rotten midwife flax until the day after tomorrow says so in an explanation. What kind of explanation is this? The point is, say nicely – we must not touch Mladjan Dinkic, he will bring down the government if we take any money from him. You've been down 26% like him. Stop that ministry. Put him through to the Ministry of Finance, that's how it used to be. Only a few years ago was the Ministry of Finance and Economy, so you knew who was doing what. Now the Minister of Economy and Regional Development is running the government, appearing as a spokesman, the prime minister, promises for you, Madam Minister, the other day. He said he was guaranteed not to raise the VAT. I asked him, "Who are you, when can you guarantee such a thing?" He is only the minister of economics and regional development, though the Deputy Prime Minister, but he is not the one who decides on such matters. Two hundred million dinars are in this contract service item. (President: Time.) You said, Mr. Chairman, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18490	No, this is the time that goes according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18491	Thank you, I won't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18492	To Article 5. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 5. The 15th amendment was submitted by Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 5. The 15th amendment was submitted by Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 5. The 15th amendment was submitted by Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 5. The 15th amendment was submitted by Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 5. The 16th amendment was submitted by Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the Finance Committee has tabled an amendment to Article 5. Section 17. The government has accepted this amendment. To Article 5. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Shami, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18493	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment whose essence is to provide money, at least three billion dinars, for the construction of Corridor 10 in the division of the Ministry of Infrastructure. I was talking about this when I was talking about the 2008 budget, there were projected funds of five million dinars from the NIP and they were abolished. I'll remind you, Corridor 10 isn't just about building roads, it's about building tracks on that same corridor. It is well known that under the conditions of the economic crisis, and according to the government, the motive for rebalancing is an economic crisis that is indisputable, everyone is trying to open as many public works as possible. In a very simple sense, each dinar invested in public works is, as a rule, almost in general, returned to the state. Those who work on public works spend money in the state. The state takes contributions and taxes on salaries, takes the part that is spent on VAT, on various excises, and that circle turns again, because those who spend again provide someone else to earn and remains behind that job highway or railway. I have to say that we have thousands of kilometers of highways, and unfortunately we don't have to invent what should be built, and we have so many candidates to build that it's not worth convincing you about. I believe everyone knows that. When it comes to railways, which little anyone mentions here, trains on the railways today go an average of 10 kilometers slower than in 1936. That's why the railroads failed. I know for a fact that there are at least 200km of railways in Serbia on which trains cannot go more than 20km per hour. In doing so, traffic is, I would say, the most important strategic advantage of our country to use and that there is no economic crisis, especially in the context of the economic crisis. I am very sorry that the construction of roads and railways in Corridor 10 has not left much greater money out of the budget. It would have come from where, right to tell you, my colleagues from the DSS, but from other parties, they pointed to a number of places where such things could be done. In the end, the government's argument that this would damage Serbia's railways, a company that the Serbian budget touches every year for 100m euros. He's got to touch them, he's gonna touch more, because the trains are gonna stop real fast if they don't invest in Corridor 10. Therefore, we will do Serbia's Railways a bigger service to make roads for them, i.e. railways that can be very realistic from Belgrade to Nis in an hour, then all would travel from Belgrade to Nis by train. But if you're supposed to roll five and a half hours to Nis, then of course neither will they have passengers, nor will they be able to earn anything and will mostly be on the mangers of the state. Therefore, it is my appeal to find additional funds and to intensify the work on Corridor 10, because that is exactly what an active relationship is with the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18494	On Article 5, section 18 of the amendments was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, 18 amendments were submitted by Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milan M. Nikolic submitted to Article 5 of the 19th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 19 and 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. The word is Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5 for a number of reasons. The first reason is that this amendment includes over 15,000 signatures of wartime military reservers, who say to themselves, above all, that they are discriminated against, that citizens are second-row, that they are deceived, that they have been cheated during the election campaign. Namely, what's this about? During the election campaign, our President, northern Boris Tadic, visited the Toplički District and would not radicalise the protests of wartime military reservers from Toplički County, they were given a certain amount of money in their form of social assistance and were compensated. That's what the Leskovec military reserve is looking for. The second application I submitted this amendment was the conclusion of the Leskovac Municipality Assembly, which came to a close about ten days ago, and passed it on to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to solve the problem of Serbia's southern military reserve, specifically from the Jablani County, by emergency procedure. I expect this amendment to be supported by my colleagues, MPs from the post, especially from the DS, who spoke during the election campaign that they will solve the problem of wartime military reservers and that they will continue to be compensated. In fact, the 300 million I have defined for wartime military reserve refer to the first war, until the state solves this problem systemically, and this problem is extremely complex. I hope the state solves this problem as soon as possible. I also assume, Madam Minister, that you will accept this amendment, because you expect 15,000 military reservers from Leskovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18496	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Milet Poscurica submitted 20 amendments to Article 5 of the amendments. The word is Dr. Poscuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18497	Ladies and gentlemen, we in the SNS wanted to increase the position in Article 5 of division 20, it was the Ministry of Science, the classification of 424 - specialized services, contrary to otherwise respected practice, by a billion and a half dinar, and by taking the money from the position of Minister Dinkic. Of course, this amendment could have gone in such a way that it would've gone into split 15 and it would've taken down a billion-and-a-half, but we couldn't have shown exactly what we wanted to do more transparently than this, that science was really in an invisible position, that less than 1%, 2% or 3% of the budget was allocated to science, in conditions where at least 50 scientific research institutions and organisations and two to three thousand employees didn't receive any salaries, not even for February, where they didn't have basic funds for material costs, where they almost took the data to the site that the Ministry called them to sign a scholarship agreement. Why are we changing this? The item we are changing is 90% of the defined funds for the Ministry of Science. There's something important that's being financed. This is an exception. The rule by which everything and everything is financed from specialized services, against which we are, and this position takes about 50% of all the funds of specialized services. But, conditionally speaking, the most transparent and clear pictured is how it is spent in the Ministry of Science. In a very unpleasant position are those who are now preparing to complete a concise concept of Bologna's schooling. The law will have to change a lot of things. It'll probably be kids with a high average, kids who'll have a hard time finishing school, because the government is making them a new surprise, which is more of a scholarship. Master studies will be minor private payments. When they somehow end up and don't stay in college for a variety of reasons, mostly because they don't have good relations with cousins, they try to find happiness at the institute. There's a surprise waiting for them, minimal finance, no way to work, no way to work, no way to work with what equipment. It's a very difficult situation. Of course, privatisation and the general concept in which we have been in place since 2000 have contributed greatly to this, but it is worth doing something and improving positions, because their own income is only about four and a few million, and donations from abroad are about 70 million. There is great discrimination and should be helped in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18498	On Article 5, 21 amendments were submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Mr. Toskovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18499	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to the 2009 Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment refers to Article 5, Section 21, Chapter 211, function 560 and says – is deleted. If we could simply say why we put up with this amendment, we say that it's not time to deem ourselves, that the economic crisis is in progress, and that we could plan ahead so that this agency doesn't form, regardless of what we've passed the Ministry Act and we've formed an agency. Since I'm counting on the government, especially its finance minister, as a good director of a good company or as one host of a good house, to predict everything that needs to be done, and not to be caught by the problems that have found us at the moment and we're acting like this, we're flaunting that budget as if it's in some huge amount and we can be proud of it. I propose an amendment to delete that part, and in the explanation of the Government, it shows that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Environment Protection Agency is established by the Ministry Act. That's understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18500	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, 21 amendments were submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 22 amendments were submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 22 amendments were submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Mr. Colakovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18501	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister and Representatives of the Government, honourable MPs, before I move on to say something about the amendment, I would like to ask the Honorable Minister to check the facts of the Vice-President of the Assembly, MP Radojko Obradovic, here today, concerning the inflow of funds and the plan of the PIO Fund. That's what we're going to try to do with the fund as well. As for the amendment I've made, I've now got an answer I can't agree with. Namely, what's this about? We've got two things here. The direct costs of the University of Belgrade are precisely planned and specified here. A similar important competition for the Republic of Serbia, such as the University, is being held in comparison with the University, if not more significant. It's the European Youth Championship in Athletics. Novi Sad, as the host city, has invested huge funds for the competition, as well as AP Vojvodina. The sports and youth ministry also allocated part of last year's funding. Here we go with two things. The answer is that the planned funds I have proposed are the donations or donations to NGOs, which will tell sports alliances, but the sports alliance that is the formal organiser of the competition has its obligations to this competition, and direct costs are related to the town of Novi Sad, or place of maintenance. The question arises – what is the obligation, as organizer of the Athletic Union of Serbia, in relation to the European Youth Championship in Novi Sad? If it's the same means, then it's not the answer I've been given, it's not my idea. My idea is to allocate funds like for the University. So direct transfer to the organizers in Novi Sad, not through the Athletic Union, which otherwise has an obligation, whether 40 million or not, that's another thing, within their financial fund. I mean, it's two-way here, one is the University, the other is the Athletics, and it's with different arches. We can't accept that. We ask that we explain ourselves well, if these are direct funds that are given to organize an organizer in Novi Sad, then we don't mind, I'll accept this, but I doubt that the Athletic Union and the Athletic Union will be allocated on the basis of this here which writes so much funds. He also has an obligation to allocate funds to this championship. I ask you to keep that in mind, and by the day of voting, I will consult sports organisations and organizers, and then I will determine whether I will vote for this part of the budget, or for the budget in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18502	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 22 and 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. The word is Mr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18503	The esteemed chairman, Mrs. Minister, respected fellow MPs, is the transfer of funds from the economic classification 511, from Article 5, split 55, to the transfer of 50 million dinars. I suggest that these funds be used to build a playground for small sports in all municipalities of South Baba County, which would be used by people with disabilities. As far as we know, there are active athletes in Serbia, I'm talking about people with disabilities, hundreds, and recreationals about 1,000. In collective sports we are represented only in a basketball cart, and in Italy, for example, there are four leagues for basketball players in a wheelchair. We don't have training conditions, so this little club is going out. Clubs have been shut down in Zrenjanin and Sombor, in Novi Sad there is one, two and one in Belgrade. The Paralympic Games were held last year in Beijing, in table tennis we won silver and fourth place in throwing the disc, that's what everyone knows. Our mouths are full of people with disabilities, which is why we especially knew the party G17 and I hope that it will support this amendment. In an explanation of the rejection of this amendment, the government of the Republic of Serbia says - the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is not in line with the global policy of reducing total public expenditure. Speaking of public expenditures, I have to remind you, there have been a lot of stories today about Vojvodina, and this South-Bath district of which my amendment speaks is, of course, under the AP Vojvodina, in 2000 there were seven regional secretariats, today there are 17. When we add to this the number of republican ministries and 27 members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what kind of policy are we talking about to reduce the total public expenditure? In particular, I don't know how public it has been informed that this recently adopted budget of Vojvodina is forecasting a 20% increase and a parliamentary flat-rate. Whether it will be realized we will see, but predict. Far from being jealous of the province's colleagues, but I really think there's a lot of false morality and hypocritical power in Serbia. In addition to this, I wish good night to all those tenacious viewers who have endured this session of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18504	The word for this amendment is Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18505	Mr. Novakovic, you know I can't talk about this amendment, but I'm using the time foreseen for the SRS parliamentary group. In that case, I want a good morning to all those viewers who will follow such a significant debate and I'm investing in a radical protest. So, after 6:00 p.m., he started a quiz at the national "Hello Europe" service. The quiz is obviously more important than a story that definitely determines the fate and lives of citizens of Serbia. This is a real national disgrace. Also, since there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would only like one constructive proposal. We've all got big enough eyes, Mrs. Minister is also here day and night, tomorrow we have a very important debate, that we end up here now, to hear Mrs. Minister with her answers to questions, because we're only working until 2:00 p.m., we've only got 15 minutes left, so now we don't confuse the citizens who will follow this between 3:00 and 4:00 a.m., this is a delayed transmission. Obviously, someone who makes these decisions has estimated, dear citizens, that one quiz at the national service is more important than how you live this year, so until the next budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18506	The Minister will answer her word when she finds it necessary. On article 4, 23 amendments, with correction, were submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, Nenad Prokic submitted the amendments. The word is Mr Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18507	The Ministry of Culture has an arbitrary cultural policy because there is no state interest in what kind of cultural policy this country should have. On the other hand, this arbitraryness is transferred to the spending of funds. In the budget rebalancing, there is arbitraryness and this arbitraryness has also been translated into an explanation of the amendments that I have tabled. This argument is, arbitraryly, that they have already saved enough and there is no need to save more, which is even rude, offensive and uncultural. I think that this arbitraryness is passed on to spending funds in this way, to give you a parameter, it's an item -- specialized services of 752,000,000, where they explain us 22,000, and 750,000 don't explain. Let me remind you that 750,000 is the same figure as the MPs of this parliament cost the state of Serbia. Since two months of campaigning against their own parliament by this state, how much they eat and drink, how much they park, how much they sleep, and how much each cost per person, I think this 750,000-thousand-thousand-thousand will be spent on a special act of government is one arbitrary indiscriminateness.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18508	On Article 5, 23 amendments were submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Božidar Delic submitted to Article 5 of the 24 amendments. The word is Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18509	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia-SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Section 24, Section 24, Function 410, EC 481. It is a grant to NGOs within the Diaspora Ministry. This may be the third budget so far where we are trying to show the government that such an institution or an NGO, such as the Serbian Emigrant Mother, should not be underestimated in this way as the Ministry of Diaspora does. It's just enough to say that until a month ago, when it was debated that there might be a reduction in the number of ministries, probably one of the first ministries to disappear would be the Ministry of Diaspora. Then who would take care of our emigrants around the world? The answer could be that it would be done by the Foreign Ministry, etc. However, we have this NGO or institution that exists for 60 years -- the Emigrant Mother of Serbia. She's been trying to collapse for years. There are even some stories that this is how they want their space, which is in an attractive place in Belgrade, to be taken, because only a few people work in the Serbian emigrant's Matica. We wanted this Serbian Emigrant Mother not to depend on the will of the Ministry of Diaspora, to be allocated from this amount provided for in the grant of NGOs, because if an institution wants to work in the course of the year, especially to deal with plans, then it must know what means it has. The mother of the Serbian emigrant doesn't know that day or day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18510	On article 5, 24 amendments were submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, 26 amendments were submitted by Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 26th Amendment, Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 26th Amendment, Vitomir Plužarević submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 27th Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Marina Ragush submitted to Article 5 of the 27 amendments. The word is Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18511	So, I want a good morning to all those who have patiently welcomed the debate on amendments per article 5 of the 27th split and I assume that Mrs Dragutinovic wants to speak at the end of this debate and, Mr Novakovic, again, I warn you, if you extended the debate to 2.00 hours and did not give Mrs Dragutinovic valuable seven minutes to speak, she will not speak today, it would be a sad loss, because we have asked a really solid number of questions and we expect answers that are meaningful compared to the debate we had today. But to return to the amendment. In Article 5, Section 27 of function 410, EC 423, the contracted services, we thought in terms of savings which is one of the measures in terms of overcoming the effects of the global financial crisis to replace the amount of 38 million 590 000 with ten million. We have a reason why this amendment is not accepted. Given that, starting from the global policy of reducing public expenditure, the NIP ministry has reduced expenditure in line with the planned rationalisation and savings on discretionary expenditures, which is the famous 26% reduction, and further reducing these expenditures would endanger the ministry's activities. So we thought that these amendments would be saved wherever possible, and especially by these discretionary services, so that those funds would be directed to those who would be most necessary and who would really feel the effects of the crisis during this year until the next budget rebalance. Also, what is inevitable to say is that there is almost a camera atmosphere here, an opposition as if talking to itself, is an attempt for Serbian citizens to overcome the effects of the financial crisis in the most healthy way possible, although it is impossible in this system of economic policy. There are no government representatives here who are required to conduct a qualified debate. We're talking in a period of transmission that will be delayed. The question is, is this debate even meaningful? probably some future generation to give meaning to this nonsense in which we have all found ourselves in and in which we are little all responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18512	The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to article 5. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Nikola Savic submitted to Article 5 of the 34th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was submitted to Article 5 by Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was submitted to Article 5 by Sulejman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milan Knezevic submitted to Article 5 of the Sixth Amendment. Mr Milan Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18513	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of Parliament's Forwards Club, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5 of section 36, where function 410 is proposed to be deleted and division 36, function 410 refers to the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. For several months, many opposition MPs, as well as today, comment on the agencies and the number of established agencies, moving around 104-105, and the main objection to the adoption of the budget was that there were too many agencies, that they marked too much cost and that they practically multiplied the administration. The Government's reply is standard, that agencies are established by the Ministry Act, and in essence this amendment is directly related to the Otoa amendment, which concerns the Veterinary Administration, i.e. the funds of this Foreign Investment Agency, to transfer to the investment relating to the prevention of infectious diseases and the protection of animals from disease. These days we are aware and we see a number of information relating to the current epidemic of swine flu that is happening in Mexico, as well as in many more developed countries such as France and Russia. In essence, debt and investment in the prevention of infectious diseases related to the prevention of the protection of the stock fund, it is largely related to the health of people in the prevention of zoonoses, and therefore we hope that at this time the crisis of restrictions in the number of administrations and in finance should help on another side. So we hope once again that the government will start to consider not only the problem of this agency, but generally all the agencies, and bring them down to a reasonable number that is economical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-27-0.u18514	I thank Professor Knezevic. I thank everyone for, I mean, a successful day. This would be the end of today's work day. We'll continue tomorrow on Tuesday, April 28 at 10:00 p.m.
