ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-17-0.u14388	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have conditions for the National Assembly to continue its work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Riza Halimi. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on the single agenda, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on a Rules of Procedure on its work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA Before we move to a decision on the proposal for a decision, we need to make a preliminary decision on the amendments to the proposal for a decision, as well as, in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, let us determine whether there are particularly reasonable reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. I remind you that amendments to the draft decision have been tabled by MPs: Natasa Vučković, Janko Veselinović, together Đura Muchenski and Pavel Marčok, Željko Ivanji, Oto Kišmarton, Saša Maksimović, Jelena Budimirović, Milan Knezevic, Ivan Andrić, Zoran Ostojić and together Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pešić, Nebojsa Milić, Natasa Mićić, Zarko Korać, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popović, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maraš, Nebojsa Ranđelović and Kenan Hajdarevic. You have received a report from the Administrative Committee on the examination of the amendments submitted. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pesic, Nenad Milic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korać, Judita Popovic, Slobodan Maras, Nenad Prokic, Nebojsa Randjelović and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 126, one of 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, against two, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Vučković. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, against one, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of the MPs. The proposal to add new members of 1a after Article 1. and 1b. National MP Ivan Andric suggested that new members of 1a be added after Article 1. and 1b. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 2nd amendment, with correction, was submitted by Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Ivanji. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, against one, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Counter 127, abstention one, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Vučković. The Management Board has adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MPs Đura Muchenski and Pavel Marchok submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Counter 127, abstention one, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The proposal to add a new article 2a was submitted jointly by MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pesic, Nenad Milic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Koraić, Ivan Andric, Judita Popović, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras, Nenad Prokic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make your statement on this amendment. For one against 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were together submitted by MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pesic, Nenad Milic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korać, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popović, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras, Nenad Prokić, Nebojsa Rangelović and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Vučković. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, against one, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pesic, Nenad Milic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korać, Ivan Andrić, Judita Popović, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras, Nenad Prokić, Nebojsa Rangelović and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 123, four out of 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Knezevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Counter 127, abstention one, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Vučković. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, against one, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Counter 127, abstention one, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I remind you he's a member of the 8th. The motion for a decision is scheduled for the decision to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In light of the proposal for a decision, the movers stated that in this case there are particularly reasonable reasons for the proposed decision to take effect on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" in order to create conditions for the effective work of the National Assembly. In view of the need to adopt laws in the procedure as quickly as possible, as well as the coming huge legislative activity of the National Assembly, amendments to the Rules of Procedure are a necessary condition for the National Assembly to respond to the needs of time in achieving its role. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. For 126, against one, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of publication. Since we have completed our decision on the amendments, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 127, against one, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move on to the National Assembly's decision on employees' injuries. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 10 February 2009, at 15 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to an injury. 27, 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 125 of the 125 MPs. I find that no decision has been made, because we have no quorum. We need to re-establish the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into their MPs. I figure we can get back to work. I'll put it back to the vote. Please decide if they're injured. 27, 103 and 104. The Rules of Procedure, which was announced by MP Zoran Krasic at 15 hours and 10 minutes on 10 February 2009. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 10 February 2009, at 15 o'clock and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 10 February 2009, at 16 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a 27-member injury. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 10 February 2009, at 17 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a 27-member injury. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. There were two votes against 124 out of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session of 11 February 2009, at 11 o'clock and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Buha, at a session on 11 February 2009, at 13 o'clock and 15 minutes, pointed to an injury. 27th and 77th. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 125, one MP did not vote, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 11 February 2009, at 16 hours and 09 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 77. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 11 February 2009, at 13 o'clock and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Milenkovic, at a session on 12 February 2009, at 13 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to an injury. 27 and 106. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 12 February 2009, at 15 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to an injury. 103, 104 and 105. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Mirko Munjic, at a session on 12 February 2009, at 16 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a 27-member injury. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Elena Bozic-Talian, at a session on 13 February 2009, at 13 o'clock and 53 minutes, pointed to an injury. Paragraphs 104 and 108 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there are no injured members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Todorovic, at a session on 13 February 2009, at 16 hours and 52 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Thank you.
