ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 117 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs: Donka Banović, Milica Radovic, Zlata Djeric, Elvira Kovac and Đuro Peric. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft act from the established agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call to the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, which was convened at the request of 119 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 169 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request for the holding of the Ninth Extraordinary Session, with the predetermined agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 9th Extraordinary National Assembly session in 2009, the following Dn e n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the President, members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE RESOLVATION AND THE NAME OF THE PRESIDENT, MEMBER STATES AND REPLACE MEMBER STATES OF THE REPUBLICAL COMMISSION You have received a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the President, members and alternate of the Republic of Election Commission, which was submitted by the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. You have received amendments submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic and MP Tomislav Nikolic on the proposal for a decision. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for the parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the sending group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a National MP who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorized them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Aleksandar Martinovic of the SRS Parliamentary Group. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the Proposer, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please report to anyone who wants a word. You have your word to Mr. Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we should formally decide on the resolution and appointment of the president, members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. The assembly majority for making such a decision is likely to exist and it is not disputed. What is much more important than this formal decision that you are about to make today is a few things: firstly, what kind of atmosphere elections are held in the Republic of Serbia, elections at all levels, from the President of the Republic to the local elections; what are political parties' relations with each other and towards the electoral body today, and what is curiosity when it comes to the electoral process in the Republic of Serbia, it is one phenomenon that probably does not exist in any other country in the world, not in any of the Member States of the European Union, in which you all flock, and this is a phenomenon that could be called 'corruption' of the electoral body. What is also important is that the Serbian Radical Party will potentiate in its discussion are announcements coming from representatives of the ruling coalition, above all DS, that the Republic Election Commission will change as there is now in the sense that some "state election commission" will be educated, in which representatives of opposition parties will not be able to enter. – It will be one body imposed by the majority of the assembly or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia! And, then, dear citizens and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in that case, forget any democratic control of the elections in the Republic of Serbia. When I say choice, I mean election at all levels. What kind of atmosphere was held in the Republic of Serbia over the past few years, and this reached its culmination in May last year, when we had elections for MPs, elections for province MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly and local elections, and something earlier, in January of last year, when we elected the President of the Republic. Such an atmosphere has not been recorded anywhere in the world. Carrying packages to citizens, buying votes for money, these are phenomena that do not exist absolutely in any democratic country! And when you from the ruling opposition accuse this or that he is guilty that the Republic of Serbia is not a member of the European Union, then you are, in fact, deluding the public. They are not Ratko Mladic, Goran Hadzic, the Serbian Radical Party is intruding to join the European Union. That's what you deceive citizens. The easiest thing for you to say is that Serbian citizens are the hostages of Ratko Mladic or the Serbian Radical Party. No, Serbian citizens are hostages to you from the ruling coalition, because what you are doing in the elections is not in any of the countries of the European Union. When the people of the European Union heard of the plight you are serving to win power – who would take you into one community that even formally refers to a democratic, well-organized, legal, etc. A few weeks ago, you had a report from the European Commission, and this was published in official EU publications, though state media and media controlled by ruling parties in the Republic of Serbia have somehow managed to smuggle that information, the thing is that the European Commission said Serbia cannot count on some quick EU entry, because we are one of the most corrupt societies in Europe. When I say - corrupt society then I don't mean corruption just in the classical sense of that word, of the corruption of judges, of the corruption of ministers, of civil servants etc. I'm referring to a specific form of corruption, which is "the corruption of the electoral body." Sourcely, etemologically observed, some corrupt means corrupting. Corruption means corruption. You, gentlemen, from the ruling coalition several years back systematically spoil the people, more specifically, the electoral body. You have completely disrupted the moral values that exist in Serbian society. The elections in the Republic of Serbia are no longer a party match with the party. There's no more conflict of ideas here, conflict of opinion, different views of the world. Here, today in the Republic of Serbia, at the beginning of the 21st century, if you are by some chance not part of the ruling coalition, then it means that you are not involved in the game with your political competitors, but means that you are fighting a huge financial machine, state, tycoon, mafia, to fight against the wealthy sponsors of the ruling coalition and EU countries. Who can win in that competition? It's hard as it is. He who has today in the hands of the state register can win the elections, not because his political programme is good, not because his candidates are good, but because the people, because Serbian citizens are hard to live. You're building your election success on that fact. You know that the largest number of Serbian citizens has been led to a beggar stick. You have privatised many of the social and state-owned enterprises in Serbia, sugars in Vojvodina, for which one part of your ruling coalition is so struggling, are privatised by three euros. Today, the parity between kilograms of wheat and artificial fertilizer is 1:3, or 1:5, which is nowhere in the world. Today, a farmer in Serbia is forced to sell his wheat for 9 dinars. This means that the hectare has a loss of at least 5,000 to 6,000 dinars. So, not that he can't make a profit, but he's at a clear loss. Today, people in Serbia are forced to cut off their fingers and other vital organs on their bodies, so that the state will look at them, so that some minister will have mercy to come to their company that is in front of bankruptcy and ask them – and what is happening in your company. In such an atmosphere when elections are held, then from democracy, then from a fair and fair election game there is absolutely nothing. You know that citizens in Serbia are having a hard time living and you deliberately go from house to house and share packages containing oil, sugar, flour, Chinese shoes, Chinese mobile phones, pave the streets two days before the election, so the road takes seven days; the road will fail in seven days or in a month you don't care. It's important that the road lasts until the polling stations are closed. When polling stations are closed, I don't care if citizens can take those roads or can't. You're not going to the next election campaign anyway. In particular, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina last year when we had elections for the province's MPs and local elections then DS activists bought the votes of Vojvodina's citizens for cash. That's the facts. That's what your activists are admitting today. It's no longer a secret that last year for five, ten, twenty or fifty euros you could buy as many votes as you wanted. Thanks to that fact today, DS, along with its coalition partners, is an absolute master in Vojvodina. Not because the people of Vojvodina love you very much, and not because they support the Statute of the Vojvodina that you voted in October last year, but because you managed to deceive them, because you managed to use the severe torment in which citizens are found, thanks to you, or your guilt, and on the basis of that purchase of votes, which I repeat, is nowhere in the world, you have managed to win the country's elections and to win power in most of the municipalities in Vojvodina and in other parts of Serbia. What were you doing in municipalities where you couldn't win? Of course, you've done your best to win every municipality. Unfortunately for you, despite the packages, despite the money, despite the baggers and trucks, in some municipalities, the SRS won the majority. We had concluded coalition agreements either with the DSS or with the coalition around the SPS. You, especially in Vojvodina, and in other parts of Serbia, went to a real political civil war. You've made a decision that at all levels of government there must be DS, from the President of the Republic to the local community. In municipalities where you failed to establish a legal majority, you started kidnapping people, taking their children, blackmailing them, firing them from work, threatening them with trials, because your judges are going to finish the job. You started buying some councilmen. In some municipalities last year and this year there were almost no bloody accounts between members of different political parties. All due to the fact that the DS could be in power, not by the will of the citizens, but, literally, what the people would say, by force of God. You don't need power to do anything in the interest of the citizens. You need power from two things, to cover up the affairs you've had in the past and to continue the behavior you're used to, to continue the robbery, to continue the kidnapping, to continue with your personal wealth. You don't see authority as a means to do something for the people. You see power as a means to do something for you personally. Those who were filled with the mouth of the Vojvodina, her interests, the citizens of Vojvodina, 'where is our money, we don't give our grain', etc., to what you've burned. You've burned, say, to the fact that today Mr. Canak is a folk MP and at the same time the chairman of the board of directors, if I'm not mistaken, "Vojvodinashum". Ask Mr Chanka how many compensations are made to members of the board of directors whose founder is the AP Vojvodina. Park IV Vojvodina is bigger than the Serbian government's rolling stock. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and especially you who cannot sleep nights of care for the people of Vojvodina, the biggest investment today in Vojvodina is the renovation of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. No jobs, no factories, no investments, no nothing. Your presidents of the municipality, your presidents of the municipality when they are asked a question – and where are these huge investments you promised, where are these huge jobs, where is this prosperity of citizens, say: well, you know, the government has denied us transfer funds?- I'm sorry. Well, that's what you see with your government. What does that matter to the citizens? The government knew, you got a statement, and you can check it here in the record, when we adopted the 2009 budget, as Mrs Diana Dragutinovic said, the financial crisis appeared on the world market in 2007. You knew what would happen to all the countries in the world. You knew it wouldn't pass the Republic of Serbia. And yet you made false promises to the citizens. You made false promises to them last year when you elected all state institutions, from the President of the Republic to the councils of municipalities and when the polling stations closed, then your President of the Republic said, "Citizens, keep your jobs. There are no new jobs, but keep the existing ones." Well, why didn't you say that in the election campaign, that young people don't graduate from schools and colleges? What if the kids were struggling? There's no job opening for the next five years. What if they finish schools, what if they finish colleges, what if their parents fund astronomical scholarships? They won't have anywhere to work anyway. They won't have anywhere to work, that's a fact! You promised the citizens you'd hire 10,000 interns. Ask your tycoons how this job of hiring an intern is going. It's not going at all! And where people are employed, thanks to various connections and ties, they'll work for a year and after a year they'll be on the street. And then what? Then you'll remember some new thefts, some new scams. So it's an atmosphere where elections are held. And thanks to the poverty of Serbian citizens, thanks to their torture and trouble, the DS together with its public and secret coalition partners managed to form power in the Republic of Serbia. Then it wasn't enough for you to do what you did in May, then it wasn't enough that the ministers, that the circuit secretaries in the black limos were walking around the house, handing out packages, money, promises, threatened somewhere, blackmailed somewhere, and it wasn't enough for you. Then you decided, in addition to all the problems that the state of Serbia is in, besides misery, the lack of resources, in addition to the efforts of the Western forces to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, in addition to the attempts and some Western forces and some parties here, who alone would not be able to cross the censorship, to take Vojvodina from us, in such an atmosphere, you felt that the state's task was to break the Serbian Radical Party. It was not enough for you to commit an election theft in 2008 in May, in September of the month you came forward to seize the mandates of the Serbian Radical Party. Nowhere in the world is there, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, you who are candidates for EU accession, you who are hugging and shaking hands with Olli Rehn, to kidnap the mandates of the party who regularly participated in the parliamentary elections and to find some MPs in the Assembly who did not participate, but did not exist at the time when the last parliamentary elections were held. There are no such examples anywhere from the United States, Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Spain to Japan and Australia. But you felt, on the orders of your Western mentors, that it is most likely to break up the Serbian Radical Party, that it is most likely to kill Vojislav Seselj, that it is most likely to prevent Vojislav Seselj from returning to Serbia, not only to his party, but primarily to his family, from which he has been separated since 2003 thanks to you, because the indictment against Vojislav Seselj was written here in Belgrade. You have been filtering and today you are filling the UN Prosecutor's Office of the Hague Tribunal and false witnesses with completely incorrect, unverified, untrustworthy information that is supposed to testify to the guilt of Vojislav Seselj. Then you could see what was going on in The Hague. Half of those brought in as witnesses to the D.A.'s office overnight, in one hour, turned into witnesses to the defense. None of them could say an absolute word against Vojislav Seselj. Vojislav Seselj no longer takes the UN tribunal seriously. You've seen him make fun of the prosecutors. He says, "You say I'm fat and that's why I'm having blood problems. Here, get the prosecutor up, he's got a bigger stomach than me." Well, he says, "I've been looking at this guard in front of my cell for a few days now wearing the same uniform. You don't have the money to buy him a new uniform. Where will you get me so much money for the damage you've done me? Do you know how much it costs? "So, when you saw what was happening in The Hague, when it was clear to you that Vojislav Seselj had defeated The Hague tribunal before leaving The Hague...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23896	Mr. Martinovic, 20 minutes have passed, to give the word to the other heads of parliament, so if you want to continue within the time you have. How about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23897	Yes, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23898	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing by the parliamentary group: New Serbia, Forward Serbia and the SRS. The word is Mr. Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23899	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, behold, finally, it is confirmed that there is still a congregation majority here, both tempered and because of which the subject and which promises and for which guarantee, we will see it! Today is a subject of completeness, so to speak, the Republic Election Commission and, apparently, what I said first and the Republic Election Commission may not be in a relationship, but if we all know that members and president of the Republic Election Commission, as the people say 'numbers of votes', and from these numbers of votes, or results, the mandates that political parties receive in this Parliament, in the National Assembly, and then from that relationship, the power comes out and the government of the Republic of Serbia is elected. These days, Madam President, or yesterday, we heard one news that we expect the Government or someone on behalf of the Government to confirm whether it is true or not, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given guarantees to a group of MPs who have declared themselves the "Forum of Sanjay MPs" on the determination of so-called "Sandzai MPs". statistical regions. I can tell you, Madam President, I think it should concern you, too, that Serbs in the municipalities of Priboj, Prepolje and Nova Varosh are very concerned and that these days, too, large press and press conferences and protests are expected. Who has the right to decide on behalf of 92% of Serbs in Novi Varosha, on behalf of 70% of Serbs in Prijepolje and on behalf of 80% of Serbs in Priboj?- I'm sorry. Citizens of Serbian nationality in these municipalities, which I have listed, are not at all interested in your political trade and blackmail that is ready to suffer, above all, DS from individual small parliamentary groups. That's one thing I have to tell you, Madam President. They're particularly upset citizens, because we haven't worked in 15 days, we don't know why. Many things happen, as far as the ordinary lives of Serbian citizens are concerned. I am informing you that despite the warning you sent to the Minister of Energy, Mr. Petar Skundric, here, I haven't had an answer to my question in three months. I'll be free to repeat it, it's all about RIK and election results, because it's based on these election results and the coalition that was made, and it comes to the fact that three months don't answer one question to the citizens, and it's about the price of gas. This morning's gas price is $224 per thousand, and the price rose in October 60%. There are now parliamentary groups present here, which last time were not when I spoke about it, and I will say that they are the Cank's MP group and the LDP MP group. Here they made big marketing in October of the month, they talked about the gas mafia, about the government's downfall, and now there's no one from Vojvodina to say a word, because 80% of the citizens, or individual households that are heating up on gas right from Vojvodina. Instead of taking off the price, getting the price back, the 60%, even if it's cheap, someone announces to the citizens a new collection of gas prices. I have to say, even though it may not be appropriate for this House, some of the words I'm going to say, for me, this is "usual robbery of citizens." In particular, the suspicion is caused by the fact that three months no one will answer that question. You have given a public notice from the post in time, and I have received an answer to that question and a lot of other things after a few days. It's Mrs Samardzic. You have to be politically honest and say it. Three months, New Serbia's MPs, i.e. I as an MP, and the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia, both in your Shumadi and in your Kragujevac, and there are many households that are heating up on gas, we are looking for an answer to the question – why continues to rob Serbian citizens?- I'm sorry. It's a robbery! Someone here was saying to put a robbery point, gathering votes from the people of Vojvodina, and now you're quiet here. Now they've settled down, now they're on boards, as we hear and see, and for the price of gas, which concerns millions of Serbian citizens, and we don't know how many economic operators, there's no explanation why it's so high. There's no explanation where that extra difference goes, extraprofit, and to what purposes are it used? Madam President, I ask you to give another public notice to the Minister of Energy, to make him respect this honorable home, the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure, and to answer this question. Why doesn't the price of gas go down when the price of gas is twice as cheap on the world market?- I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23900	Replica, Mr. Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23901	Comrade Markicevic, I must address you, in terms of replication, because for some time in this House you are false, when it comes to gas economy in Serbia, both about prices and costs and everything else. I understand your intention to collect which points in both Serbia and Vojvodina, but please, or come to the "Serbiagas", or contact the Ministry of Energy as an MP, so that because of your integrity and your reputation and influence, you do not present information that is simply untrue. I have no intention of plowing with what you said, I take it as a day-to-day political struggle for voters. I don't know what you expect from that, but please, either speak in writing or, if you don't mind, speak to me, as a colleague, who is the CEO of Srbiagas, to tell you the truth about it. You haven't set the exact price, nor do you know what the tariff system is, nor do you know how it works. And if conditions are created for the gas to be cheaped, we are legally required to do so. The moment all accounts are collected, when it is settled in the Energy Agency as provided for by the law, so will the Ministry of Energy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which also decides on it, "Srbigas". I suppose you forgot to compliment us, which is full of six months in the heating season, the price of gas is 30 to 40 percent lower than households, district heating and industry would pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23902	Mr Markicevic, you have no basis for replication, but you can within the time of your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23903	Dear President, I don't know if Mr. Bajatovic, the energy minister, is. I spoke to you, I don't know at all, on what basis did he get the replica? I haven't said anything offensive, the facts I'm making may not be true, but that's what the Minister of Energy has to answer, or you have to ask the Minister of Energy - why we haven't had an answer for three months now? The data I just presented, said, is true, and every citizen of Serbia who has a computer can see it on various websites. Mr. Bajatovic, let me tell you: when gas was introduced in the forest and in the town of Cačka, the price was 1,300 euros and 5,000 households introduced gas. Some promises have been made. Citizens participated in the construction of both primary and secondary networks. Now, in the Mačvanski district, for your information, it costs only 580 euros, and only five households reported. That's what the Serbian business is saying. I have no intention of asking you, privately, answers to these questions. I could do that. Me and you personally have good communication. I asked this question for the citizens of Serbia, who have been robbed this winter and are still being robbed. And you've increased 60% of the price of gas to $450 by a thousand. I'm saying now it's $224 of those thousand cc's. You take down 60% of the price of gas, Mr. Bayatovic, and you take all the votes you think I take. You need to see desperate people who have invested thousands of euros in their households, to introduce gas, and now they have to reheat wood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23904	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although we had one session a few years ago, perhaps, a little more than half a year ago, when we elected members of RIK, here, we now have a similar agenda and as a folk MP, and multiple candidates for the MP, I can talk a lot about what kind of remarks I have on RIK's work and what decisions RIK makes, which are contrary to the law on elections, which at some point are being implemented. Just one example to say, the Republic Election Commission has amended the Law on the selection of MPs by declaring certain lists with a smaller number of signatures than is necessary and provided for by the Law on the Selection of MPs. The Republic Election Commission has so far been put exclusively for policy purposes, not to allow the conduct of certain elections to be conducted evenly, but to give certain parties a certain advantage before the vote begins. We can talk about it as well as gifts, which is true. We can also talk about how individual records are discussed, how complaints are discussed, how electoral silence is violated, how party equality is violated when informed. It's all in the jurisdiction of the Republic Election Commission. On all these issues, it is very little or almost in no way responding to allow all participants in the election campaign to participate equally in the elections. That's why we're against it, to educate someone special, someone new, a working body to conduct the election. Call it whatever you want, RIK or whatever, it'll be far worse than now, and this isn't the perfect solution. That this should not be done by one party or the ruling majority, but should be a consensus of all political parties, only tells an example of the re-election of the Vozdovac vote. The results from the three electoral units were cancelled, cancelled by the Municipal Election Commission, although there were no objections from members of the electoral committees, but the Municipal Election Commission opened, numbered, destroyed, corrected, corrected, to justify and justify its party, which proposed it, why it was not a better result. I therefore believe that Mr Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, under whose authority the municipality, as well as everyone else in Serbia, is neither capable, nor qualified, nor moral enough, to propose, to us, in the Assembly, one such law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is what I'm telling you. As for the proposed agenda, let's get this straight and why now after six or seven months we have a re-election of RIK members. Some members of RIK resigned as RIK members. The reason is not what they did and what was illegal in election campaigns, but the multimillion-dollar amounts paid. I can say that there were no violations of the law when paying those amounts, but I can also say that citizens know, and you ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that those millions paid to the members of the RIK don't have to pay taxes, or they don't have to pay taxes and that at least one part of the immoral way of getting the money back into the budget for the citizens of Serbia. How has it ever come to this situation that RIK can afford to spend 34 of them more money in an election campaign for its fees, for its diaries, for its travel expenses, more than the party gets to conduct elections from the Republic of Serbia's budget and win the largest number of votes in those elections? Or, let me rework it into something that will make it more clear to the MPs, that 34 spends more for a month and a half or two days, how long an election campaign is going to take, than 250 MPs per year. If that's easier for you to count. However, where did all this come from when it came to RIK that it was happening in the Assembly and that it took so long? The RIK members have taken control of the political parties they have proposed for members of the RIK. At least in that part. It might not be a big deal if they were abducted in an act concerning the legal conduct of the electoral procedure. But they only got kidnapped when it comes to money, and it's totally, totally control. To make it worse, RIK is completely out of control and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No congregation working body, no assembly body, no session of the Serbian Parliament, no single MP has ever had a chance to see the financial reports of the RIK and how much money they spent on their own work! I can say that several times, as a member of the Finance Committee, I have been asked to have such a report delivered to me, that the report is under discussion in the Finance Committee and that, in the end, if necessary, that report is adopted by the Finance Committee. After three years (I sought in a rather aggressive way) with the help of Serbian Progressive Party President and the head of the Prosperity Group, Forward Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs finally learned how much RIK spent on its work. I can tell you that I seriously doubt the credibility of that report that was filed, because there are a lot of people on that list who are hired to work in RIK, and I don't know if they work in the Serbian Parliament. Under the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic, professional services of the Serbian Parliament, are conducting a technical procedure of elections under these laws. And the problem is, a group of employees in the Serbian Parliament, with the help of your bosses, and some of you here, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, are "wind and dress" in the Serbian Parliament. You can take your head off, but you yourself know that a smaller number has more rights than MPs. All this happening with the Serbian Parliament goes from there. We can discuss it as much as you want. Look closely at the report that was delivered to you, and you will see that there are employees in that report who have raised millions. Under the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and Presidents of the Republic there are electoral committees abroad. How did members of the election committees travel abroad? Through which tourist agencies? Which company? And don't be surprised if you find out that those agencies that organized the trip were rewarding members of the election committees for individual employees in the Miami Parliament with trips to Paris and so on. You can take a look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and reports on the internal work of the Serbian Parliament, so you will find that there is one man in each commission, as if he were a superman, and you will find him on the list of millions and something. To shut the mouth of RIK members, they were rewarded with two or three million dinars for their work, so that a group of employees could do whatever they wanted. Those RIK members who were at least moral, resigned from the RIK membership. Now we're discussing their replacements. But no matter how hard I try, no matter how hard I get up, I can't find two political parties on these papers, I can't find a G17 and I can't find an SRS. What did their RIK members keep in those functions? What, after these millions, the parties that support them owe them, so they have to suffer them? Whether these amounts were given to the parties or, simply, they themselves operate the parties, as they have tried to keep employees in the Serbian Parliament running the policy of the Serbian Parliament, to determine to the MPs what they should and shouldn't, that no one should object to them, because the financial financials of an MP will be financed by the newspaper. So much for now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I hope you don't mind all this, but I think that there are responsibilities for all this happening in the Serbian Parliament, especially for these two parties who haven't proposed any changes, because if they really think Serbia well, if they really advocate that there are no excessive and excessive earnings due to membership on the boards, the least they could do is make a decision that this should apply to RIK and any other republican authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23906	Mr. Free Maras wants to use the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23907	Thank you, Madam President, just to report for Mr Markic's exposure. Mr Markicevic mentioned earlier and asked why LDP was silent, and that everything we agreed on when it came to the gas and oil industry of Serbia was a matter of marketing. Mr. Markicevic, this is the most hypocritical thing you could say. So you who have proposed to be the Assistant Minister of Energy Mr. Svetovic, who has eaten this country, you who have sat on the board of directors, for example, who led the "Roads of Serbia", and now we drink 300m euros in debt, you ask LDP why you now keep quiet when the gas collects? What were we doing the last few days? I have asked the Minister of Energy 17 times – which is why the Republic of Serbia is the only country in which for the sixth time in two months it has now jumped fuel? You're asking why we keep our mouths shut. Since the beginning of January 2008, we have been asking the question and we are asking not to sell "The Oil Industry of Serbia" in the way it was sold – now we see why? We talked all the time about why gas was expensive. Did you once say that the middleman should be abolished – you are not, because you cannot? We have said a thousand times, we repeat, Mr. Bajatovic, that is, I have full respect for what the Banatski Castle is beginning to fill and should be ready for winter, but we repeat the question – why not abolish the mediator?- I'm sorry. Why aren't we taking over the Horgos? We're taking over Beregov's gas. Which is why we're costing all over Hungary and all the dangers they can be there, and you know it better than me, what are these dangers?- I'm sorry. I answered first of all to ask Mr Markicevic – how come you have the right to ask the question why we are silent?- I'm sorry. We are not silent, but we are constantly drawing attention to the government and the public – that what happened with NIS, that is, with the existence of a gas broker, is a huge damage to Serbia. Once again, I will remind you, your coalition has proposed Mr. Svedovic as an assistant minister of energy, in a meeting when Kostunica was prime minister. Mr. Svetovic hid the NIS director's letter, or the chairman of the Management Board, as it was then called, Mr. Tomic -- to buy 25% of Jugorosgas, then Serbia would have 50%. Your man hid it, and Serbia is saddened – for three million dollars and some dollars could buy that 25%, and you ask why we keep quiet. You need to talk about the massive malversions of those public enterprises in whose boards you were, not you personally, but your representatives – about what happened to JP 'The Ways of Serbia', why 300 million debt? Why in the oil industry of Serbia now? (President: Time. ) These are questions that you need to answer now, not to ask why the Liberal Democratic Party is silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23908	He has the word Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I answered on the basis of a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23910	It wasn't a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23911	How come it wasn't a basis for replication?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23912	Nothing was offensive. It was a common comment. You can and you have a word within the time frame, if you like, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23913	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really need to say something that is facts. I don't know what Mr. Veroljub Arsic needs to do with the SRS. Get out of the U.S.S. You have your own party to which you have moved, be an MP thanks to DS and G17 plus, they voted to keep your mandates. If you're nervous, and I see that you are, ask to be provided with a reception at Ollie Reno, let them pat you on the head and shoulder, maybe it'll calm you down a little bit, maybe after that you'll figure out what you said. This is where we are taught the morals of those who have committed crimes, who in the congregation and outside the congregation, literally, devoid their colleagues of immoral behavior. Our moral lessons are being held here, we're having a salty mind, and here, look what came from the parliamentary group to which Mr. Arsic belongs. Marina Djukanovic, deputy member of RIK, is hereby dismissed and is appointed member Vladimir Djukanovic. Mother resigned, then named her son for her. Now it's moral, now it's fair, now it's fair, now it's fancy, now it's one way or another. That's right, Mr. Arsic. Get out of the SRS, mind your own business. If you're very nervous, if you're having any personal or political problems, I don't think there's, to provide you with a reception, not with Ollie Reno, but he could take you to his driver, so let him help you calm down a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue where I have been interrupted, so elections in the Republic of Serbia, for several years, and especially in 2008, so they are absolutely not regular because they are being held in a completely irregular atmosphere. [[Applause]] Today in the elections, I mean first of all the ruling parties, not the program, not the ideology, not the heart, not the world view, but the money. Whoever has the money will win the elections. Anyone who doesn't have money can have no idea what kind of political programme I can be, can be candidates, I don't know how smart and moral, it's not worth it – whoever has the money to buy the votes of the people of Serbia who are miserable, who are deceived and who are simply forced to sell their vote in the elections to the one who has the money, so that they don't spend the next seven days, for the next two weeks or the next month! It's a sad picture that's going around Serbia today. These are sad facts, but they are facts, and those facts should be looked into the eyes. What is one way to prevent the humiliation of Serbian citizens from buying their votes? I also expected the SRS to think that the ruling coalition would propose amendments to the relevant laws – that the campaign should no longer go with packages, mobile phones, shoes, baggers and trucks, but also with software and ideology. Hold the stands, hold the rallys, visit your members and sympathisers, citizens, propagate your political ideas, but without sacks, no wallets, no bags and no bags, because this is no longer an election in Serbia, but this has become more political bagging! Serbia has become the last country in the world in which elections are held. There have never been such elections in Serbia, in the atmosphere in which they are held today! There are some intellectuals or quasi-intellectuals who say Serbian democracy is young. If we are looking at the 1990 period, it is, but Serbia has a little longer political and state continuity than it is in 1990. There was democracy in Serbia and at the end of the 19th century and in the early 20th century, and between the two world wars, so these things didn't happen. So stop once the humiliation of the citizens of Serbia, so is it not enough that you left them without jobs, that you let the peasants at the mercy of your tycoons, not only domestic but also Croatian, but now you need to humiliate the citizens on election day. Stop that already! Suggest amending the law – no more corruption of the electoral body, no more damage to the moral values of the people! Don't spoil Serbian citizens anymore, because citizens have realized that each party should offer them something. They'll vote for the one who offers them more! There is no more game of political ideas, there is no more fair political struggle, there is now buying and selling! If democracy turns into a buy and sell, then Serbia will pass as did some Greek statesmen in ancient times or ancient Rome! They have failed because of immorality that has literally appeared in all areas of social life. Here, you are now promoting him in the field of choice. So let the parties go to the elections with their programme, with their ideology, and let them afterwards respond to the citizens for whether or not they have implemented the programme. And to win thanks to thousands of euros, to win thanks to blue-yellow packages, which are filled with money from the same robbed people, to win thanks to mob and tycoon bangers and trucks, that is something that really undermines every citizen's dignity in the Republic of Serbia. I took a look at the names of the people you're voting for today, and I got an eye for President RIK. The man is from Zrenjanin, a city whose mayor was arrested weeks ago for various crimes he committed in the post. Otherwise, Goran Knezevic, while at the mercy of Boris Tadic and Bojan Pajtic, was the best mayor in the world, the most successful, the most honest, he received plaques and awards, he was chairman of the Regional Committee of DS, and then he must have resented someone or had a fight over the division of the prey and the man ended up in prison, an investigation has been conducted against him. They say the evil languages, when Goran Knezevic was arrested at the same time was arrested and the director of the "Vojvodovavoda" so they put him back on the road to Belgrade, because someone said – people, that man financed us a campaign for the province's elections, that there were hundreds of thousands of euros that we received from his cash register hard for DS to have so many province MPs. What then says Goran Knezevic, before the Special Crimes Department of the Belgrade District Court's investigative judge? What kind of tritties and puppies about some companies from Piroth, from Crna Trava, from Kikinda, from Leban, which gave 10, 15 or 50,000 dinars for the DS campaign – the DS campaign was paid out of the AP Vojvodina budget and the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund; the bags of money went to Belgrade, Novi Sad and from there people were paid on election boards, packages were bought, streets were paved, votes were bought for money! That's what Goran Knezevic said. And those of you who tell me to lie to check the record at the investigative judge what Goran Knezevic said, that's not what I said. I couldn't even know he wasn't talking about it. We could only assume it was impossible for one party to have so much money legally. That's impossible! You don't get that kind of money under the Political Party Financing Act. It's impossible for you to have hundreds of thousands of packages, thousands of cell phones, hundreds of thousands of pairs of shoes. It's impossible for you to have so many badgers and trucks! Someone had to finance it, besides the money you get from the budget. That's what Goran Knezevic was talking about. I'm not saying it's true or it's not true, I'm just saying what the man said. You'll be in big trouble to prove that what he's saying isn't true. After all, it is quite symptomatic that the candidate for president RIK is a man from Zrenjanin, a man who is openly told by Zrenjanin, according to Vojvodina, that on the day of the election he received over 200,000 euros in order to buy votes in the local, province and republican elections held in May of last year. And now you're running for president of RIK, replacing one president suspected of possibly doing something contrary to the law, and now you're setting up another one that's even worse than the one you're about to take down. That's the facts. Your facts can hurt, you can say I'm a liar, but they're facts. The question arises how are political parties financed today in the Republic of Serbia? How is it possible that someone who gets less money from the state budget than, say, the SRS, there's ten times more money in the election? How is that possible? The Democratic Party published on its official site, if I'm not mistaken, a list of 44 companies and entrepreneurs who allegedly funded the DS election campaign and when you add up the figures, you can see that this is not even close to the amount of money the DS spent in the elections, say, in May of last year. But it wasn't just in May, so it was in the repeat local elections held in November last year. The DS has deliberately caused a crisis in four municipalities in Serbia to make a mistake in the SRS. And those are the facts. On the territory of the municipality of Rum on 9 November 2008, the province's secretaries were more in Ruma than in Novi Sad, all of them were sown, carrying packages, carrying phones, carrying money, promising towers and cities: and many jobs, and helping with the employment, during the schooling of children, during treatment, there was nothing they had promised. Where they didn't help their promises, they blackmailed you. You'll lose your job, threaten family members, there's nothing they didn't do! So it's repeated from election to election. A question arises as to how individual political parties in the Republic of Serbia are financed. You can arrest some doctor who took 300 euros or some professor who let a student not repeat his class for 200 euros, but what about the head of that octopus that sits in Belgrade and Novi Sad, which ingests millions of euros of national money? When will these people be called to justice? We should wait for someone from the ruling parties to argue with their leadership to come to justice. While loyal to his party, while loyal to the tycoons who finance him or his head hair will not fall, and when he argues with them, then there is a real danger that this man is brought in, heard, and then he tells some truth about what happened at a time when he was a state, circuit or party official. Otherwise, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I was informed that there seems to be no transmission, so if you could check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23914	I'm tracking the monitor right now. The transmission's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23915	I received information that the transmission was gone for a while, and I am glad if it is there and I think this is a unique opportunity for the citizens of Serbia to hear the other side that can't speak in the media, the other side that has been unspeakable, which is placed on the pillar of shame and which is blamed for all the troubles that have hit Serbia, the Serbian people and the Serbian citizens today. Another question is raised here: it is obvious that the ruling coalition intends to transfer the RIK. The project is called – forming a state electoral commission. Representatives of political parties, primarily opposition political parties, will no longer have members and deputies of members in what you call a state electoral commission. No one will be able to control the electoral process in the Republic of Serbia anymore, more specifically will – CESID, organisations that are close to the ruling regime, but the political parties participating in the elections will no longer be able to control the legality of the election process. Of course, the political parties will continue to control, but the ruling parties found in the opposition at the time of the election will not be able to exercise any control over the election process! It is interesting that the idea of forming a state electoral commission comes from representatives of political parties who protested in Belgrade and across Serbia for nearly four months over an election theft that took place in 1996. You remember how the protests of the coalition "Together", the SPO and the DS and then the Civil Union of Serbia began. Even Felipe Gonzales got involved, top European officials stepped in to try to restore the credibility of the election results that were in November 1996. Some people even died in those demonstrations, some even injured. Some protesters carried flags of states that bombed us three years later. But now you seem to want to return that time of electoral theft, electoral fraud and machination. You don't seem to believe that with the money you're done, you'll be able to secure an election victory. You made it in 2008, but the citizens seem to have opened their eyes and become aware of what you're doing. The majority of Serbian citizens have become aware that with those 10, 20, or 50 euros, or with that single package they cannot survive for long, long periods of time to regulate their existential problems. Then you realized, since you assumed that this kind of electoral malfeasance would not give you the expected result, that you would form some state election commission, allegedly, extraordinary, objective, democratic, which would respect the law, etc. You're scaring Serbian citizens with political parties. Why do we need political parties in RIK? What do we need a multiparty system for? What do we need democracy for? May the Serbian Government, the naka assembly majority delegate loyal people to the state electoral commission? And then we'll have a guarantee that the elections will be fair, democratic and will be legal. You're completely forgetting, say, Article 5. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees that political parties are the cornerstone of democracy in Serbia. That member of the Constitution was also trampled on the day you voted for the SRS' mandates to be taken away. You remembered some theory that the MP owned the mandate. He has inherited from his father and grandfather a mandate, so he can do whatever he wants with him! That was your theory. And thanks to this theory, we now have an illegal composition of Parliament. [[Applause]] The Constitution, the passed Law on the selection of Members of Parliament, was passed, a decision confirming the mandate of Members of Parliaments. Now you're convincing someone that this state election committee of yours is going to prevent all these phenomena that we've been talking about today. It won't stop! She doesn't even have a mission to stop them. She is tasked with ensuring a new victory for the Democratic Party and its coalition partners. Whether the election will be this year, next year or in two or three years, but there will be. For these elections you started preparing by slowly creating a public atmosphere that RIK and its composition are not good, that political parties should not have representatives in RIK, because political parties are not objective, they are biased, they are subjective, they look only at their own interests. You will name some people who are supermen, who are immune from any political pressure, independent, and who will act exclusively by their conscience, by the Constitution and by the law. It won't, and you know it won't happen. You need a new assembly of the electoral commission to allow you to win some new elections. You will hardly achieve expected results with packages and cash. Now you're on your way to stage two, to crossover the RIK. You will dispel members of the Election Commission of the Republic of Serbia from the opposition parties. No one will be able to control you anymore, and then the Serbian citizens will be in a position to protect the cabbage during the elections. Then the sacks of some fictitious votes will be brought to that state electoral commission and then you will happily say - behold, the citizens of Serbia support us. We have legitimacy. That's what Serbian citizens want. Serbian citizens want us to rob them, so they can't work, that they can't be treated, that they can't educate their children?- I'm sorry. Serbian citizens will, simply burn out of that desire, so that they can cut off their fingers, won't some minister look at them?- I'm sorry. That's the story you're telling these days, and that's the story you need to tell again after the new election. You take cover for the election results, of course, when you need them. When you need it, you respect the results of the election, you say – well, you can criticize us all you want, but the people voted like that. The people voted to make Boris Tadic president of the Republic. The people reportedly voted that Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic, who found 11m euros in his aunt's couch, would be government vice presidents?- I'm sorry. Was that the will of the people?- I'm sorry. When the SRS asks a question -- and where is the will of that people who voted for the SRS, then you say it doesn't matter. Individual MPs are important. The important thing is that they are the owners of the mandate. The important thing is that they can buy and sell that mandate. That's how you treat the election will of the citizens. The question arises – how long do you think with this practice to continue? Instead of seriously dealing with state, political and economic problems, you see that in an unconstitutional, illegal way, you will secure some new electoral victory in some new elections. These days, citizens in Serbia are trampling raspberries for scandalously low ransom prices. In Vojvodina last year, peasants paid more to lay corn than to sell it. Today, the ransom price of wheat is nine dinars. Your tycoons say, "Here, we will have mercy on the peasants, we will give them twelve and thirteen dinars." – The parity between wheat and artificial fertilizer is 1:3 or 1:5. For a kilo of artificial fertilizer, you need to give us five kilos of wheat. So where's that? Where is it that what is used for human consumption is less valuable than what is being garbageed ornaments in Serbia?- I'm sorry. Where is it in the world? It's only in Serbia! Why don't you tell those tycoons and mobsters of yours -- cut down on your demands a little bit. Well, don't make money on peasants, get a profit of 200 or 300 percent! That's 20, 30, 50% enough for you. – Why don't you look a little bit like Russian Federation Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who told traders – reduce margins, is an economic crisis. Let's all take the burden of this crisis equally. Don't make money on people's troubles and troubles. Well, why don't you tell those of yours who bought sugars, silos, artificial fertilizer processing factories - have a little consideration for this poor woman! It's that they funded you, is that without their money you wouldn't be able to sit in the chairs you're sitting in, but show some political wisdom, political courage. Show that these rich people in Serbia too, some have become rich in legal, some in an illegal way, in the function of the people and in the function of the state, not that the state and the people are in their position. Well, it doesn't interfere with their wallet, their limos, yachts and fairies from millions of Serbian citizens! Tomorrow, God forbid someone attacks you, you say there's no more danger of anyone attacking us, we're surrounded by friends. That's what you claimed in '99... Chairman (Gordana Komic): National MP, please bring the raspberries, parities and economic situation, which you have been talking about for five minutes, on the basis of Article 103(1), to the agenda point – election of members of the Election Commission. [[Disabled microphone.]] I warn you of the obligation of respect for the Rules of Procedure and the obligation of the MP to speak of the agenda. I am really trying, Mrs. Comic, to try to interpret the subject of the agenda as I think I should and that you should not interfere with my style of exposure. People's MP, I didn't talk about style. I have spoken very precisely about five minutes in which you speak of raspberries, parity, cereals, wheat, tycoons, presidents of other states' governments, and I have asked you, with a warning that you respect Article 103 paragraph 1 and that all that you say is related to the subject of the agenda, which is the choice of members of the RIK. If I have any objections to style or feel that you are violating any other member of the Rules of Procedure, I will warn you of that. I now warn you to return to the topic of the agenda, i.e. to link the part of the exposure you have devoted to other topics to the selection of members of the Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23918	People's MP, I gave you a warning, now I ask you, before speaking, to connect Milo Djukanovic and the selection of RIK members. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure are something that binds both me and you. By listening to the MPs, I remind you that they are obliged to speak about what is on the agenda, and you are trying in your interpretations to talk about the agenda, of course, with style and freedom of painting and interpretation. So, please, in the next minute, link all the thesis that you have brought to the agenda point called – Selection of members of the Republic Election Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23919	Mrs. Komic, the connection could be about the following: the electoral machinations were largely used by Milo Djukanovic. He's...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23920	National MP Milo Djukanovic is the president of another country's government and you cannot connect him on any basis to the Republic Election Commission of the Republic of Serbia unless you have some completely new information concerning the election of members of the Electoral Commission. Please do not throw away, and since in your presentations you advocate order and compliance with the rules, you do not consider that compliance with the rules alone does not apply. Please connect Milo Djukanovic and select members of the Republic Election Commission as agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23921	Mrs. Komic, I am convinced that you have the same information that I have, which is that in Montenegro, in a country that was once a member of the SRJ, in which we all lived together and that you of the DS promised to keep it, because also Montenegro, as well as KIM, are not a national but a democratic issue, therefore, this Milo Djukanovic, who, by the way, recognised independent Kosovo and Metohija, has in many ways stolen the electoral will of the people of Montenegro, and for the last time, if I am not mistaken...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23922	National MP, the topic of the agenda is – The choice of the Republic Election Commission of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to ask the People's MP, Ms. Radet, not to throw it away. The agenda item is – Selection of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission. Please stop demeaning the National Assembly, MP Aleksandra Martinovic, to stop insulting other MPs and not to talk about elections in Montenegro, but to talk about topics that are on the agenda. This is the last warning. If you insist on demonstrating violence against the procedure and violence against the rules, then I will be forced to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23923	Here, Mrs. Comic, I'm really going to try to make some argument about what I'm talking about. Right there is one method called a comparative method or a comparative legal one. To understand the essence of a legal phenomenon, sometimes you have to use a partnership with the same one that exists in other countries. Students at law school, and this is taught in the first year, in Novi Sad, Belgrade, at all state colleges, and for these private ones I don't know what to learn, in state colleges they learn safely in the first year, that the methods are rightly historical, dogmatic, and among other things, and comparable legal. Now I'm trying, maybe it seems unprofessional, bad to you, etc., I'm not saying, with my modesty, I can't do better, to explain in a parallel way what the elections in Montenegro and the electoral machinations in Montenegro have to do with the electoral machinations in Serbia, because they happened more or less in the same scenario, by the same methodology and there is a real danger, given the individual candidates you're going to vote for today, that they will continue with these electoral machinations. Montenegro is not that far from Serbia. Some people might want her to be further away, but she's not. It is the closest state to Serbia, however anti-Serbian the regime in Montenegro, the people living in Montenegro, are the citizens of Montenegro according to their origins to the most Serbs. Allow me, I have the right to speak of comparative phenomena in two Serbian states, Serbia-Montenegro. So what the SRS would like is for all the next elections to be fair, to be democratic and to really reflect the electoral will of citizens. [[Applause]] The SRS has never claimed that the world will fail or that Serbia will fail if the SRS is not in power. We have never stolen any votes in any of the polling stations in Serbia. No one has ever moved from another political party to the SRS, and that he has taken with him his parliamentary or parliamentary mandate. The SRS has the moral and political credibility to ask you from the ruling coalition to ensure fair and democratic elections. The SRS is not afraid of choice as such. We fear abuse in those elections. We are afraid that the citizens will vote for the SRS, and that after that, they will pour themselves into the camp of some other political parties. That's what we're afraid of. And that's why we're talking about these topics. These topics are painful. I would be the luckiest man in the world if I didn't have to talk about this today, if I didn't have to talk about the noise, about overcoming the dignity of Serbian citizens. Well, look into people's eyes. There is no greater humiliation than when you bring a citizen a blue-yellow bag on election day and you say – we are from the electoral headquarters and that party, vote for this and that political party. Around that man or the eye of that woman, a bunch of little children, the house is about to collapse, mud, and people can't get the tractor out of the yard. Don't abuse people's suffering and trouble! Come on, try to solve these problems. Packages don't solve problems. Get rid of it in a day or two or seven days. And when your pastures are eaten, when your jams are eaten, when rice and flour are used, man remains hungry as he was before. So stop this practice, not because of the SRS, stop for the citizens. Stop it because of your neighbors, because of your relatives and friends you're also humiliating. There's no need to do that. The media is in your hands! The money is in your hands! You have every possible logistics support on all sides. If that's not enough for you to win in a regular way in the election, don't deal with politics. Then let someone with a little more political talent have a little more political courage. In a democratic state, it's no big deal to be an opposition. You're not in power, but you can live as decently as any other citizen. You are not threatened and no one blackmails you, nor threatens your family members; wives and husbands are not fired from work because their spouses are members of the SRS. It is today, unfortunately, in Serbia. It won't be when the SRS is in power. Radicals were in power at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries. We were in power from 1998 to 2000. Tell me, who are now members of the ruling regime, did anyone lack a head hair from any Serbian radical in a period of those two years?- I'm sorry. Have we touched anyone in the family, have we offended anyone's basic human dignity, national, religious, racial, political beliefs? We didn't! We tried to exercise power in difficult conditions, at a time when we fought the Cypriot terrorists at KIM and when we defended the country from NATO intervention. Maybe there were mistakes, it was safe. We may have shown confidence then to some people today, from this perspective, who we would not trust, but as Vojislav Seselj said in one of his books – radicals did not embarrass. And that's a fact. Since I don't want to piss Mrs. Comic off anymore, I'm going to interrupt my exposure and ask my colleagues to continue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23924	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 21 minutes, and now has the word National MP Miroslav Markicevic, the right to reply to the presentation of MP Slobodan Maraš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23925	Dear Vice President, the fact that after 45 minutes I am entitled to a three-minute replica to answer to Mr. Marash tells me about the style and the way this session is run, but being discriminated here is no harm. No one forced me to be a MP. The problem is that millions of Serbian citizens have been discriminated against on various grounds. The theme and the answer I want to give to Mr. Marash, it seems to me that he used too many words and that he didn't quite understand what I was going to say. My basic theme was the price of gas in Serbia for households. There are 220 thousand, of which 170 thousand in Vojvodina, and I don't know how many economic operators. This means that millions of Serbian citizens are heating up on gas. At a time when 60% of the gas prices for Serbian citizens were increased, thousands of cubic metres of gas were $450 plus tax, now it's $224 plus tax. I wanted to remind some parliamentary groups, in their best interest, that we join to help Serbian citizens, to put pressure on the government and the resolution ministries and on the directors of public enterprises who are tasked with not increasing the price of gas, because they are finally promised by some parliamentary groups, therefore, that there will be no increase in the price of gas. I can tell you, Mr. Bayatovic, on another fact, that the last few months thousands of households are not using gas at all. Consumption – zero cubics on the monthly level, and they have accounts of 300 dinars. I can, personally, show you an account to see. Mr. Maras, it was my idea for everyone to be here together, and it would be best if the Serbian government and the Serbian government took off the price of gas, so let them get political points and the citizens would get better conditions for life. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23926	He has a word, right to the replica, MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm just asking you to register. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, you may have been more educated than me, you've studied higher schools, but there's one thing you can't deny, which is that I'm older than you, and I have a life experience behind me. So, Mr. Martinovic, don't finish your dirty work for other people, because you'll be a busy politician very soon, and Serbian law will lose one scientific worker, because even as a scientific worker, you won't be worth five pairs because of what you're saying here. Let me just say, let me remind you, that once upon a time, in order to do someone a favor, you attacked a man who was helping the Defence Committee of Vojislav Seselj and you know it well, just to do someone a favor. When it comes to RIK, profits for RIK members have been paid in accordance with the law and I have never slowed it down. However, because of the affair that took place and when it finally became known how many members of the RIK received money, members of the SNS resigned for moral and honorable reasons. Don't talk to us about honor, morality, honesty, taking care of Serbian citizens, when and today, these RIK members in front of the SRS sit in that same RIK and after millions of dollars. Don't talk about nepotism as a phenomenon, because remember, you know too well that you had to rule out a party man if his sister or wife was just a candidate for a councilman by local parliaments, and here are the members of the RIK who are in exceptional family relations with the MPs and party officials you represent. Don't talk about it! And as for DS and the vote at the board's session, Mr. Martinovic, it was a vote on the resignation I withdrew, because by law that resignation could be withdrawn. It's not a legally regulated institute of irrevocable resignations, and you also know it well. Let me just say that to you for that... (President: Three minutes, the time at your disposal has been used. )... I'm finishing up, just one more sentence, just to tell you that the same ones who voted to remain our mandates are in SO Little Black...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23928	Thank you. He has the right to reply, MP Nenad Canak, I only ask you to sign up for the electronic system, then MP Srdjan Milivojevic, then MP Dusan Bajatovic, then MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23929	Thank you. In just a few words, I'm going to rephrase Martinovic to Mr Alexander, who asked me about the membership of the Management Board at the Vojvodina. I've been a member of some board of directors twice in my life. For the first time in seven years, I was president of the Governing Board of the Vojvodina Clinical Center. In those seven years, I have not received a single dinar of any belongings to the Management Board of the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina. Tomorrow will be the first constitutive session of the Vojvodina, we haven't had one yet and I will be volunteering, as well as any other public function, except for the fact that I am constantly employed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, I hope I answered your question and gave a clear answer. I only wanted another small remark, which is – it is nice to mention so much Vojvodina, Mr. Martinovic, because Vojvodina really deserves a significant place in Serbia that it should have. I'm just surprised that it's done by a man in a programme whose parties clearly say that Vojvodina should be abolished as autonomy and that Serbia should not have any other government other than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am surprised, given that any party representing the party that has written in its programme that the assembly, the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, should be abolished, has the same party in that same assembly of MPs, and not a small number, and these MPs who are constantly working in the body that the party is pushing for to be abolished. It just surprises me. I didn't want to say anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23930	Before I give my word to the next MP who has the right to vote, National Assembly President Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic informs that the start of voting time is delayed for 12.00 hours and at a time after the end of this agenda. The right to replica will be used by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm just asking you to register with the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23931	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very often here when discussing important points of the agenda, such as today, use opportunities to instruct political messages that have nothing to do with the agenda. A moment ago, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, while talking about this agenda point, despite your efforts to direct it towards the agenda, presented several difficult disqualifications to the DS account. Among other things, Mr. Martinovic, you said he was arrested a few weeks ago by Mayor Zrenjanin. Mr. Martinovic, before you throw a stone at another, before you notice a straw in another's eye, it's not bad to look at the balvana in your own eye. Before accepting one heavy burden, accusing others, accept an easy burden, accusing yourself and your party, so I'll tell you, a few weeks ago, it wasn't the mayor of the DS of Zrenjanin, it was the mayor of the SRS, from Arangelovac. He is there accused of serious abuse of several hundred thousand euros. Take a look at what he's about to say in front of an investigative judge and deal with that 200,000-euro sum he, who knows who he gave to and who knows what funding he used for. But don't do the work of a judge in a congregation hall and don't be an investigative judge or prosecutor, let the legal authorities of the state do it. And I'm going to ask you really not to use the opportunity to disqualify the DS, but to deal with the situation in your own party. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23932	People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23933	Madam Chairman, I'm going to call a member of the 100th that gives me this right and that you gave me. You've been in the O.R. since this morning. You followed the course of the session, while Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic chaired, and now, while you chair. We cannot bring this practice into line and that, on the basis of Article 27, you really take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. You have now given the word to Mr Milivojevic, based on the replica. I'm asking you now...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23934	People's MPs, giving words for replicas is not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please do not abuse the rights you receive under Article 100. The right to the replica is a discretionary right of the chair, which assesses whether there is a basis for replication, and I warn you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure, because there is no need for it, and requires a statement of measures that are also unnecessary. National MP Dusan Bajatovic wanted a replica. Are you staying? You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23935	A member of the 104th and his 3rd position was injured, and that was done, Mr Milivojevic. Article 104 says that facts about other persons are not allowed to be presented, that is, from other persons’ private lives. Mr. Milivojevic, you should have been informed a little bit better when you are already attacking the SRS, which Serbian citizens know is a party that is fiercely fighting crime and corruption, led by Boris Tadic and DS and all of your "satellites" in the RS government. And when you were talking about the mayor, as you said, the president of the Arangelian municipality, then you should have known that the man was released. He was given 30 days in detention for political heist and campaign, which you conducted two days before the local elections were held in the municipality of Zemun, Vozdovac and Koseric and arrested a man, which is said "in the justice of God", and you announced that he had embezzled half a million euros. You now say 200,000 euros, and it turns out there's nothing. Honorably, since he was elected directly to the election for the president of the municipality of Arangelovac, and then the SRS, winning the elections last year in the municipality, again proposed by Dr Radosav Krabic, a prominent surgeon, host and father of two daughters, to the president of the municipality. You haven't been able to do anything. Although you pressured every possible court in Kragujevac, on an investigative judge, although Boris Tadic, a day after that, at a time of pre-election silence, spoke of Kragujevac in Arangelovac, as if he had ever set foot in Arangelovac, may have been, but he would never remember that city, which marks 150 years of its existence on "Arangelovdan" this year. So all you have to do is deal with criminals in your ranks and what he said, here's the end...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23936	Two minutes, thank you. There's no breach of Article 104. As part of his statement and the right to a word, which he received from the replica, the MP provided the information he considered to be the same, if it were necessary, would have been noted. National MP Dusan Bajatovic wants a word? People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23937	Mrs. Komic, I really need to point out the violation of Article 104, which I personally feel like a violation of my dignity, because whenever I answer the word, you use that electronics and turn it off. I think you can hold off for two minutes, wait till I tell you what it is I wanted to say. It is not disputed that it is the discretionary right of the chairman to have the right to reply to any MP, but it is truly disputable that you give the right to a replica, on behalf of the parliamentary group, to someone who is not the head of the parliamentary group or deputy head of the parliamentary group, or is authorised representative, or mentioned. It's Mr. Milivojevic. If Mrs. Kolundji had come forward, I wouldn't have advertised the Rules of Procedure at all. And in the case of Mr Markicevic, or just before, Mr Martinovic, you estimated that he did not have the right to reply, although there was a direct mention. Well, I just wanted to warn you that way, and you shut me down, and that's how you discriminated against me over the other MPs. Please don't do that in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23938	No injured Article 104. You cannot abuse the Rules of Procedure and cannot determine the violation of the Rules of Procedure, compared to what there is no way in the Rules of Procedure to declare that it has been injured. And MP Srdjan Milivojevic didn't get the word as deputy chief, nor did he get the president. He said he wanted to speak in the replica, because he thought he was hurt, and that false things were made to his account in the statements of previous speakers. I ask MP Dragan Todorovic not to throw it away. The rules apply equally to everyone and to all those who have sought the word for the replica, they have received the word for the replica, and those who now want to speak will also get it. These are MPs Dusan Bajatovic and Aleksandar Martinovic, and I ask you not to abuse the right to the word you receive on the basis of article 100 and to follow closely all the meetings of the Assembly together, and if the MP gets the word as deputy president of the parliamentary group or as president, I stress it. National MP Dusan Bajatovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23939	I apologize to the chairman and my colleagues, he just doesn't work as a parliamentary unit. I will again report for the inaccuracy presented by my colleague Markicevic and will no longer take part in a session that discusses RIK, the price of gas. Comrade Markicevic, do not lead the public astray! The current dollar at the Serbians is worth 51, not 75-76. As for the contract through Hungary, if we didn't have that contract, we wouldn't be able to get gas. You didn't even appreciate the costs through Ukraine. You have no idea what you're talking about! So that we don't go any further on that, please address as an MP or the Ministry of Energy, or to me as your colleagues, to clarify what you're saying. I can understand the day-to-day policy points, but also, don't make people a false hope that gas can be free. He can't! You have to pay for it. The government of the Republic of Serbia, with its decision, has brought "Srbigas" into the position that with 170,000,000 euros we have subsidized, therefore, to help citizens, industry and district heating systems. With so much touch on gas consumption in Serbia. So much for your prices. Now the price of July 1st will be slightly lower, when we get the final invoices, there is a procedure that respects all the costs given to the Energy Agency, which goes further to the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Finance, the government of the Republic of Serbia. And if there are financial conditions to lower the gas, there will be a reduction. Please don't take these same people whose interests, apparently, you want to protect, to manipulate. It's just that what you're saying isn't true! You don't know what you're talking about! Furthermore, indeed, I will not hesitate because I believe that today's agenda point is simply misused in this way. Thank you, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23940	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see, Mrs. Comic, in what situation I am now in, three speakers, Olli Rehn, mentioned my name in a very bad context, and I am entitled to only one replica. As for this first spokeswoman, Olli Rehn, Mr Veroljub Arsic, I have said much about the nature of the kidnapping of these mandates at the board meetings and is now declassified to repeat the whole story. [[Applause]] I just want to remind, dear Mr Arsic, of the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in some way, has property over the mandate of the MPs, and that when an MP puts his mandate at the disposal of the political party, the resignation can no longer be withdrawn. That is not said by Aleksandar Martinovic, the SRS does not say, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As for this other spokesman, Mr. Milivojevic, it's a little declassified that I'm talking about him, I'm not really in charge of this kind of political phenomenon, but I'm going to say something to Mr. Nenado Chank. It is true that the SRS is programming and ideologically favouring a unitary state. It is our opinion that the most efficient state is a unitary state in which there will be state authority and in which there will be developed local self-government, without any regions, without any autonomous provinces. On the other hand, in 2006, the SRS participated in a major state-owned business called the making of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We agreed that Vojvodina still has the status of an autonomous province, because we did not want to heat up the political atmosphere in Serbia at the time Serbia fought, and today it is fighting, to preserve its territorial integrity at KIM. If you were to ask us exclusively as politicians, we would say, yes, we are against the fact that Vojvodina or any part of Serbia has the status of an autonomous province. If you ask us as responsible statesmen, we say - yes, Vojvodina is an AP for now, but it shouldn't be a state. The problem is that those who advocate duchy autonomy, in fact, at a small door, want to make Vojvodina a sovereign state. I'm sorry Mr. Canak isn't here. He seems to have forgotten history. In the 19th century, the largest advocates of Vojvodina's autonomy were the radicals of Yasa Tomic, but then Vojvodina was part of a foreign state, the Habsburg monarchy. Radicals said -- if we're already living in a foreign country that wants to catalyze us, which wants to destroy our national identity, let's build a region where we'll have some autonomous rights. When the time came...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23942	The time available for replica was used. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Miroslav Markicevic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23943	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, and especially natural gas users as energy for the heating of your households and your business entities, Mr. Bajatovic, by the tone you address me, you prove to the citizens of Serbia that you are wrong. I know exactly what I'm saying and I'm saying it based on facts. When gas was increased by 60% to Serbian citizens, 450 dollars was 1,000 cubic dollars and it was true that it was 51 dinar – a dollar, now it's $230 – 1,000 cubic dollars, plus tax. The dollar is today, Mr. Bayatovic, you are headed by a very important public company, you know, 66.9 dinars, not 76.9. I'm very concerned about this public enterprise if the director of this public enterprise doesn't know what the rate of dollars is today at which the price of gas is calculated. And you haven't answered one question, Mr. Bayatovic. And I'm a user of that gas, as an energy source for my household, even in my town, Chačka, a promoter, and I know what's promised to the citizens, but you're using the monopoly, I repeat, to rob citizens. You have not answered one question – how can a household account of 300 dinars be sent to zero spent cubics?- I'm sorry. You didn't answer that and you didn't answer what I didn't ask you, but I'm asking you now -- how is it possible that a public enterprise owned by Serbian citizens is funding professional circles, that semi-destruct professionals from America and the white world are paying 20,000-30,000 euros in money from citizens of Serbia? You didn't answer that. Lower the price of gas, don't talk about rising gas prices again, there are economic conditions for it and you pick up, Mr. Bajatovic, political points and your party. I won't mind, I'll be the first one here to applaud. But help the citizens in this economic crisis, don't make life difficult for them anyway. We can't all justify the global economic crisis. And here we contribute, and the opposition and government, of course, more power, reduce the price of gas to Serbian citizens and economic operators. You can do that tomorrow, there are economic conditions and reasons. I was saying, the numbers are inexorable. This is not about ideological definitions, where we can argue day and night, this is about the existence of citizens of Serbia who are heating up gas, Mr. Bajatovic, and it will soon be warm season. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23944	The word is a folk letter from Aleksandra Jankovic, and after that, the MP Mirko Munjic. I ask the People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, to sign into the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23945	Risking me walking away from the subject, I still have to notice that we finally found out the assembly, as a movie, was back on track. Neither the people of Serbia nor the MPs of the opposition received any explanation as to why they were waiting for the vote to be concluded today on the draft laws we began to discuss almost a month ago. It would be good for MPs to remember their own amendments and renew knowledge of the topics that have been past long ago. Does this actually mean that, by definition, the word MP, I mean, first of all, the MPs of the opposition, means, in a proverbial way, uninformed by the institution in which he works? The New Serbia Parliament Club asked for an explanation from the president of the National Assembly on June 29th – whether or not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works, at times when workers lie on the tracks, fighting for their rights, when transfers from the budget, according to the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia are not regular, when Serbia's economy is slipping in the sun, when farmers spill their products across the streets, we didn't know when the next session of the Assembly would be held, better said, we didn't even know why the previous one was completed and why it wasn't a certain day to vote. We've been informed that we'll be informed of the voting day. When there is no longer the possibility of voting from Bodrum, for the famous'spirit presence and absence of the body', it is a good rationalization that the Assembly is not working because of this epochal venture – the University, which has provided a terrible inflow of tourists from the white area, so that there are just as many people at every sports site as they would now vote for the 'Semaphor coalition'. You have manipulated citizens, made transportation for the entrants of the University, who, I say, have come into enormous quantities, and, of course, it has turned out that in this way you have re-degraded this institution, the most legislative body and its work that suffers because, my God, it is a famous university. In order not to risk an immediate warning, I will say, of course, that Serbia certainly needs a refreshed RIK, but I also think it is necessary and a new national government, because these continuous frauds and delusions, the current government has made it clear that the unconstitutional continued Serbia's collapse, cannot stand in this collapse, not only has it reversed Serbia, devastated the economy, impoverished the citizens, deceived the people with false promises, it is here as a 'good day' that the government has been lying, destabilising the country's constitutional order by adopting proposals for the anti-constitutional statute of Vojvodina and recognised EULEX, which makes a false state of Kosovo. Throughout Serbia, as we can see, peasants strike, businesses stop working and shut down jobs, and in all this, this incompetent and irresponsible government responds to Serbia's 'good way' and how the government is making progress. The prime minister told us that we had reached the bottom a long time ago and that now we're slowly going for the best, we're coming out of that crisis. I believe more in the words of the former, and I believe in the future Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who says: The government's self-gratification represents a mockery to a people who live harder every day and suffers to put an end to it. The current authorities are saying with continued fraud and deception that Serbia's unconstitutional collapse continues, that the entire economy can stop, collapse, but only the government must survive at all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23946	It's four minutes, MPs, time for your parliamentary group to be available has been used. Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23947	In conditions where we have before us a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the president, members and deputy members of the RIK, one phenomenon in Serbia is given the character of a general principle, which is – corruption of the electoral body. The choices that passed before a certain time indeed confirm this completely. All this is happening in conditions of general unemployment, in which the majority of Serbia's population is located. Voting trade is becoming a more comprehensive rule in Serbia. The question arises whether the Election Commission in this composition will be impartial and independent. Will this electoral commission in this and this composition succeed in doing something about the new problems that have accumulated in our society? One of the basic problems that exists in Serbia is unemployment. Many are not aware of one, around, simple but very cruel truth. They do not know that unemployment in its comprehensive form does not cause the most problems for a grown man, because in this way, man is prepared, protected by his experience and reason, but rather by the problems that unemployment produces and contributes to his children. When a man loses his job, the first victim of that act becomes his underage child. And, indeed, when he moves to that category of son or daughter of unemployed, there are great traumas in these people. I'm going to say that in our terms unemployment as a social phenomenon is, in any case, a source of mass human suffering. One who says for a painful reason – that one employment that existed, whether in full or in part form and goes into legal unemployment, should know that this will lead to the suffering of a large number of people. Let me just say that in fact this election commission that you choose will get the character of a state electoral commission and the main problem is that this election commission will not be impartial and will not be independent. There is a moral principle here that reads - that one should treat others as one would like to be treated. However, if you ask any proponents of unemployment – do you want to become unemployed, believe me, none of these people will tell you that you want to become unemployed. Next, the best way to live a peaceful life is, it's one saying, 'not to be rich enough to envy you, not to feel sorry for you, not to feel sorry for you.' That's exactly the definition of that middle class that was absolutely destroyed in Serbia, it's absolutely gone. You destroyed that middle class in both the city and the village. Serbia has become a country of poor people! We are wondering whether the Election Commission in this and this composition will be able and will be relieved of any involvement by political parties, and we believe that the apriors will not, that their full contribution to solving these problems, and the problems in Serbia are indeed many. We see a pair of wheat in Serbia. We see how the malinars go. We see the way the vegetables go, the way the workers in the privatised companies who are out of work, the way the workers in the privatised enterprises who are left to work in these companies, and whose state owes a multi-annual salary, and you want to form a state commission, and you're assessing the effect of your government with three plus four. It's the same thing as the famous Mark Twen used to say - when a chicken lays only one egg as much clumps as it did a steroid. So this government of ours – boasts of its effect over the past year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23948	People's MP, I ask you, for these five minutes, by respecting Article 103, do not bring into contact with the chicken, raspberries, wheat, the government, with the selection of members and deputy members of the Electoral Commission, i.e. by discharge and appointment of members. Also, I warn you not to mislead the public of Serbia. All members of the representatives of the parliamentary clubs, as well as the candidates of the SRS Parliament Club, join this assembly of the Election Commission. Please do not deceive everyone who listens to us as a new state commission, because it is not a matter and because you have both made your amendment and political agreement between clubs candidates for members and deputy members of the Republic Election Commission, as an SRS, and on your behalf they will do their jobs. So I ask you to contact the above mentioned and do not deceive the public of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23949	Mrs. Comic, I don't deceive anyone at all, and especially the citizens of Serbia, who are extremely well aware of what I'm saying. I would ask you to really try to listen to it, just the way I say it and how I say it. I don't deceive anyone in my speech, and this is the way I explain it, as well as the composition of the Electoral Commission, as well as the other problems related to this area. So, I don't know where you get from that I'm cheating on someone with this. This exhibit of mine is really in complete connection with this topic today. In the end, I would like to say that you should let go, and instead of you deceive Serbian citizens, with allegedly some of the results you have achieved in the last year, you who estimate that your government has achieved the success of three or four, so you should let the citizens of Serbia know what your government is doing. They know best what grade you deserve. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23950	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, it is my special pleasure to take part in the debate when you chair, because we are working together to develop democratic principles, and to respect them. The SRS is facing another major commitment, which is that we are responsible for the citizens of Serbia who have elected us to these functions. I have to tell you that before I came to this high house, which we highly appreciate and the MPs of the SRS, I talked to dozens of citizens who worked in the freezers, I've been talking and talking in raspberries since morning, and I've talked to a number of Partizan road workers working on the Osječina-Lovova road section, and, of course, they've asked me what we have on the agenda today. When I told them that the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the president and members of the Republic Election Commission had delegated dozens of issues to me, which are far more important than these. We in the SRS believe that RIK can do its job well, but what counterpart Martinovic was talking about, since this is an extraordinary session, he spoke extremely well, which influence RIK can have, or – what you are about to do in the next period. It was a time when money from abroad arrived in Serbia and trained Serbian citizens in a good way to bring forward the views of future authorities in a manipulative way. They used to pay the ones they trained, some of the fellow MPs know that, even on that payroll, they are now in the Republic Parliament as representatives of the Resistance. Now in RIK, or the state election commission, after the RIK's abolition, we'll have CESID representatives, to the most extent, and they've invented one genius formula, we have a mathematician here, not Mr Shami here, he'd be amazed, he says – one plus one is equal to two. It's a fantastic CESID project and we'll have the largest number of such representatives on the state election committee. My intention today when I talk about this topic is not to talk about how my mother resigned in RIK, and that's what her younger son accepted, it's what political parties do that have the right to propose and we in the SRS refrain from such a comment, but we are afraid of what you're up to and what you're going to lead to. You're saying now that it's not current, that it won't be so, and we're responsible for telling you it will be. We have been witnessing lately that a woman who is a good friend of the president of the Helsinki Committee has been elected to the director of the Corruption Commission, and we know that the situation has been changed, that the biggest donors of civil society, i.e. NGOs that have an extremely negative effect on the standard of life of citizens in Serbia, and most of the funds are referred to them from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and from line 481. You know that 42m euros were allocated in 2006 to finance NGOs. True, there are non-governmental organisations that deserve this very much, 62m euros were allocated in 2007. And these NGOs, which are now much more funded from the Republika Srpska budget, have been conceived by funds from abroad, i.e. their development and awakening have come from abroad. But what effect will this RIK also have on this fellow Vujadinovic, who is currently in the hall, that within nine months the authorities in the previous meeting, in his hometown of Koseric, a political party that participates in the republic and has four or five ministers, and none in nine months has come to this town to help not only him but also the citizens of Koseric, but when the elections have been called, everyone has come, even the president of the party, I don't know, counterpart Vujadinovic, whether you now have an announcement from the government that you will be helped as a candidate for the president of the municipality, by the ministers who have been coming. That is how you especially advocate and thus the government only in the days of the election, or the government shows the citizens of Serbia that it wants to be responsible, and there is nothing. And what did the people with whom I have said since this morning, before coming here, contacted, what should be a very interesting, important and urgent topic at today's session of Parliament? Well, it could have been the ransom price of raspberries and the price of wheat, it could have been the help of parents, citizens of Serbia, as well as how to educate their children and a number of other things. It could have been a subject of how and in what way to help employees in business entities, but we remembered that after 15 days of break in the Republic Parliament, we put an end to the selection of new members of RIK from parties who want to show that they are godlessly high moral. No one can be morally moral unless he respected Article 102, paragraph 2, first of all. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said that the MP is free to place his mandate irrevocably, under certain conditions, at the disposal of the political party on whose proposal he was elected MP. One who does not respect this sacred letter cannot talk about any morality and does not even try to account for the citizens of Serbia who chose him and sent him to this parliament. But when SRS MPs warn of certain irregularities, then it seems to you that we are calling upon something that does not exist. We, when it was on the agenda of the Economic Regionalisation Act, have seriously and professionally warned about what this could lead to. You said it was statistical regions, that there are no more serious changes, and now we see when some forums of MPs are formed as well as how you see it. Parliament's obligation, in fact, is not an obligation for Parliament to define these statistical regions, it will be done by the government, and the government has probably already promised these MPs something. We cannot accept that people or their representatives who are authors of some books, such as "Self isolation, reality or the goal of Serbia," where the Helsinki Committee made a blacklist with the so-called "enemies" of the European way. The MPs of the SRS will be enemies of the road between our two towns if the wrong cars are driven, if they are driven at that speed that is not allowed, where we will lose one human life. Yes, we will certainly be against these European roads and such integrations that only harm the citizens of Serbia. Anything that is useful, anything that is good for the citizens of Serbia, we will accept and support it. I have to get out of here and out of this place, given that the theme is the selection of RIK members, to invite all disreputed workers, all honest peasants, students, teachers, doctors, all citizens of Serbia to no longer trust false promises, that it is the only day between two election cycles when the voice of a farmer, a peasant, is worth as much as a university professor. Dear citizens of Serbia, keep this in mind when the elections come in the next period, show confidence to those you have recognised as selflessly protecting and defending your interests in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and so far it is only possible here, because you have introduced both darkness and darkness in the means of information and elsewhere. He's got the SRS, over the space that we have left here, to protect your interests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23952	The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic. You've got four and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a completely ephemeral fact that today we have this draft decision on the resolution and appointment of the president, members and deputies of the RIK members, therefore, this personal solution, because it is obvious that the essential problem lies perhaps in these reasons for making such a decision that we have received and that it says that shortly after the elections and also the sessions held by RIK, the president of RIK and a number of members and deputies of the Commission have resigned from RIK. And there's a point, but it's clear to the public and to all of you here in the Republic Parliament that the reason is something else entirely. Whether it was a conflict of interest that existed among some members of the RIK or that information, which became available to the public, about the enormous incomes that the RIK members had, so it subsequently worked out for them, or something else, would probably show time. There seems to be one and the other, but the strongest argument in this whole story is precisely an attempt to impose a parliamentary majority decision, or de facto, so the fact that RIK is changing into a state electoral commission in which representatives of opposition parliamentary parties will virtually have no more significant influence. What you could hear during the debate so far is the question that democratic principles are represented, and even the standards of that European Union, in which you swear so much, when you make such a decision, that is, after the election of this RIK and the principles of work where there will be democratic control of the election. It is clear that the events followed by all pre-election campaigns will only have an even stronger momentum. Coliga Martinović also talked about packages of almost money and mobile phones, irons and everything else, about vehicles of local self-government used for transport, etc. It is clear that the problem that Serbia is facing and which appears to be unsettling for the ruling majority of corruptions that are present in the institutions, began by the government, through ministries, public enterprises, courts and health care, and all of this has contributed to the fact that moral values in society have been disrupted years ago, and that it has become clear as the day that the control of the state register, in which, by the way, is an increasingly promulgatory, and with the tycoon's fruit, that it is a recipe for winning all the elections so far. When this name is chosen and RIK, how are we going to oppose all the deviating phenomena facing both the state and society, starting with those privatisations, to what is currently the strongest and most modern, and that is the end of the electoral will of citizens? I think there are many things that have not been defined through the work of the RIK and others who are more likely to follow election cycles, such as the already mentioned CESID organisation, which is otherwise able to give ratings on the parties even on the day of the election, about the lack of a financial report on business, or on the money spent by the RIK. I don't think it's surprising, because we're witnessing that there's been no government accounts in this assembly for several years now, so these are all things that show where the Republic of Serbia is headed. I think it was much more necessary for this assembly building to also discuss the consequences of the economic crisis, the announced rebalancing, the decline of GDP, industrial production, rather than that of the self-gratification, whose witnesses these days, by the government, that we have even put up with this crisis more easily than the EU, Japan or so. There are many open issues, who and how will control the financing of political parties, because we are witnessing that some who do not have money from the state are able to make all the choices that we have made through Hollywood campaigns. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23954	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23955	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as MP of the DHSS, I support the motion for a decision. She's an inevitability. Some members of the Electoral Commission or their deputies resigned. The electoral commission must act in full terms and that is necessarily evil. I hope that the Election Commission in this composition will take care of certain irregularities that are happening today in the elections, but we must be realistic and admit that there is no more systematic and systematic theft and counterfeiting of the will of Serbian citizens, as was the case by 2000. So, there was a systematic and systematic theft at work that conditioned those protests in the rain, snow, ice, in front of the cordons, pendejos, those three-month walks in 1996 and 1997. So it's gone. We'll have a re-election of judges soon. I remind those who determine the criteria for selecting judges and who will decide on the choice of judges that even now, people from the judicial office holders who participated in the election thefts will not be elected for judges. As the former minister of justice in the government of Zoran Djindjic, in 2001, I submitted an initiative for these people to be resolved for lack of awareness. That didn't bear fruit at the time, because there was no political will. I hope it's not something that's getting old and now they're going to be resolved, or they're not going to be chosen, because it's better than ever for anyone. I'm sorry that some people who were symbols of election theft today are taking up very high functions. Some of them, unfortunately, also sit in this House. I can forgive them, but I can't forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23956	Mr. Bojan Mladenovic reported, however, your parliamentary group no longer has time. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23957	I am reporting on the basis of Article 94(2), which says: 'The time of the position of the first member shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of the Parliament. ''I must remind you that within the framework of the 47-minute exhibition of Aleksandar Martinovic, Gordana Komic spoke for four minutes without the time of the SRS being stopped. Also, in the presentation of counterpart Mirko Munjic, which lasted seven minutes, Gordana Comic also spoke a minute, and therefore the SRS was taken five minutes and time was not stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23958	I've just been informed that this minute has been added to Mr. Munjic. I can't say at this point about the appeal in four minutes, so I'm guessing it's taken the time and added, as Mrs. Comic used to say. It's safe around Mr. Munjic, because we've been leading, and we've taken care of it. And, in the end, we added a minute. Does anyone else want a word in accordance with article 93? No, I don't. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. Would you like a word, Mr. Ilic? Sign up. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23959	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know we had a break that was unwarranted and today we came to discuss RIK. It's okay, but believe me, the ruling coalition has problems. We know that well and Serbia knows that. That's what it feels like. You've got big problems. You can't make a deal. You make concessions that completely alter the laws that were in the procedure. We've passed certain laws, you've changed them by various regulations, you promise to change them, you'll give in to certain political options, you'll survive in power. That's not good for Serbia! Now you're in trouble with RIK. You need to change, okay, you're right - change. We heard in these discussions that were all morning how the previous RIK acted. No measures, no sanctions, nothing. We're simply going to change people now, we're going to bring in even more obediently, and we're going to build RIK as a party body, to help you out a little bit in case of any choice. You need help, as you've seen in the last election of razor blades you've been through. You have one unstable coalition. For God's sake, you need experts to do it the way we heard it. This is absolutely true: to violate electoral silence, to wear various gifts, to visit voters, voters, to make false promises, etc. in electoral silence. You made a lot of false promises. You haven't fulfilled any. Yesterday I listened to Prime Minister Cvetkovic. What he said, if they had fulfilled everything they had promised and more than that, it would have been a shame to say any other serious politician, let alone the prime minister. Today, when Serbia is nudged in problems and debt, when 1,800 companies are shut down every working day, when 68 thousand companies are blocked, it tells us some things that everything is stable, that there are no problems and that the great success is a white Schengen visa. Okay, the white Schengen visa has been working since 2000, and someone had to go west and get it. I don't know what it is, what it is, some special role you play in it?- I'm sorry. The previous governments worked on it and boasted the same with great successes. The very story of European integration is completely downgraded, that's all there is to it. Europe doesn't want us, they don't want us the way we are! Our balance sheets are catastrophic! When you look at the decline in industrial production over 20%, the drop in agricultural production is 22%. It's a catastrophic condition. Liabilities are higher annually than income, credit-line obligations. Here are some questions – these are not paid by the tolls. Well, you don't pay anybody anything. This current government has not paid seven billion dinars to the tolls for the work done! You don't pay anything from the NIP, because for years the NIP has been used only to settle pensions, to pay education workers, health workers, etc. to survive. This is totally one economic collapse in the state. Of the 200,000 jobs, there's nothing. No one mentions the flag project today. What's with the project? We've been setting aside some funds. It all fell apart, fell into the water. Thus, every day strikes in a city and constantly leaves the same team and promises to resolve the problem. None of them are solved! It's not "Lapovo" solved, it's not "Leskovac" solved, no city has been solved. Here, in Nis are daily strikes. You have certain people who go, pat, smile, bring in journalists and say – the government will handle it as soon as possible. And, of course, nothing ever gets rid of it. You have no solution for this situation in Serbia right now. Look only in agriculture, it's a shame that cherry today is sold for 20 dinars, that people don't pick it, that they don't know where they're going and what they're going to do, that the raspberries are the lowest in the last twenty years, that they can't be paid, that the milk is cheap on 17 dinars – people are in loans, they're in debt, the village is completely broken! Unbiased respect for the agreement has been destroyed. Of course, it destroyed Serbia, destroyed Serbia's economy, import lobby flowers, artificially held a dinar to support this tycoon part of the economy, and to 'blow wind in their backs', and therefore take loans from the IMF. Today, when we ask where 800,000 euros were spent, divided by the IMF, no one can explain. How could you take three billion loans?- I'm sorry. And you're just in charge, and every day you're in debt, from the new year to the day... (President: Mr. Ilic, just to remind you of Article 103(1), we need to talk about the agenda point. Get in touch with the agenda point. I know, I know, but there's only one thing for Mrs. Comic, because she's taking care of it. Because the situation is catastrophic, which is why you need to change the Election Commission. That's why you want to bring even more obedient and suspicious players and strictly party people to help you possibly do something. Otherwise, there's no way this coalition is going through as promised. No problem, gentlemen, you haven't solved a single problem. You can't solve it. You said you'd do a lot of VAT vomit. No one's been returned. That's why you need people who, through the Electoral Commission, are going to try to replace what was a big problem. We've heard from Zrenjan's people talking, I don't know a man who's proposed to be president, but we've heard he's not some quality candidate. We're gonna have problems again. The people who knew him here were discussing, saying he was doing dirty things in previous campaigns, and that it was done in the most dirty way, that it was not fitting to a democratic state. Therefore, you gentlemen are talking about democracy from the ruling coalition, and it's not really there. This parliament is for you to bring, we saw Mirko Cvetkovic say – 170 laws. What is today's law, which has been applied since the 170, which is better for Serbia than for the 170 laws? Have we passed the Traffic Safety Act? You said no more. You've had twelve dead in car accidents and dozens of injured in seven days, not to mention air traffic, what's going on. You said the big funds were going for the "mig 29" remont. How is it possible for the airport to drop "mig" with the top pilot flying on it? Mr. Sutanovac boasted about it here in this House. So why do these things happen? Well, that's why you need someone to help you right now, and that's in case there's a choice. You just, gentlemen, fold up here when the vote, raise your hand, push the button, go, do the job, and we're getting harder and harder in Serbia. Every vote you cast is a new problem for Serbia. Now you're going to vote statistical regions, and no one knows where your regions are, we don't know what secret meetings you've had, what regulations you're going to change. You promised something that didn't comply with the law that passed the legal procedure. In order for voters not to punish you in the election, you must change the Electoral Commission. You've changed many committees, you change whatever you want, you do whatever you want, you don't need Parliament, you're enough yourself. Gather round here, hold in one day three or four sessions, bring in fifteen laws in the morning from agriculture, and here's how the peasants pass. Last time I discussed it, I told Mr. Dragin - there's niggas in the village than ever! And he answered, that is not true. Here, after 15 laws, he said – there will be prosperity. He's black than ever after those 15 laws! So, Mrs. Comic, don't get upset. You get nervous every time someone talks and discusses. Why are you nervous? Why are you getting so upset?- I'm sorry. Yesterday you were on your way, you should be smiling, you see, you're doing big jobs in the interest of the state, but the people are getting harder and harder, Mrs. Comic, and don't laugh, this is sad. I'd expect tears in your eyes once to see you cry about such a difficult and bad situation. So be whatever you want. You're going to vote this just like that, and what's expected of these statistical regions of yours, of all these accidents you've brought, we'll see. New problems for Serbia, new problems for the citizens of Serbia after each of your laws and every one of your votes. So, you change the Commission, you bring whoever you want, but if you're so brave and sure, check out the election, and you'll see that you're going through a disaster, because what you're doing doesn't lead Serbia to that right path. You've turned into a dead end and it won't be good what you think will be good. Ask the wheat producers, ask why the oil has accumulated 35 dinars from New Year's Eve to this day, ask why the fertilizer is the most expensive in Europe, the most expensive fuel in Europe, the largest excise fuel. What's the problem? You can't, you have an expensive country. After today's laws, you will have another 5,000 new administrative workers, a party army that will come on the payroll and require new taxes and new imposes on the citizens of Serbia. So, you work, we warn you, we talk as much as we can, but most of them are on your side, although very thin, and you act like you have some normal majority, but hopefully, nobody shined until dawn. Therefore, just vote, just adopt and believe that in Serbia it has never been harder than it is today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23960	Since the National Assembly concluded the debate on the single agenda of the 9th Extraordinary Session in 2009, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Wednesday, July 8, 2009, starting at 13.10 p.m., as a day, or time, to vote on this item of the agenda. A 10-minute break, so let's get this straight. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, we're establishing a quorum. Since there are 129 of us before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the election, i.e. the resolution of the president, members and deputy members of the Republic Election Commission. I also remind you that, before voting on the motion for a decision, we need to make a statement on the amendments submitted. I am putting the amendments to MP Dragan Todorovic to vote. Of the 154 MPs: for 141, 13 did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am voting on amendments from MP Tomislav Nikolic. Of the 159 MPs for 126, against 20, it did not vote 13. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the president, members and deputies of the members of the Republic Election Commission, in general, with the amendment submitted by the motionor. Of the 156 MPs: for -132, it did not vote - 24. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the president, members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the only item on the agenda of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. (The session ends at 13.20 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23962	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT 8th EXCELLENT SESSION 8th of July 2009 (Tenth of Work Day) (The session began at 13.20 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23963	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. We need a quorum again, please. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending Mrs. Donka Banovic, Milica Radovic, Zlata Djeric, Elvira Kovac and Đuro Peric. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF REGIONAL DURING After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on regional development to the vote, in principle. Of 133, 117 is in favour. The National Assembly accepted the law in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the Head above article 1 of the amendment. None for, of the 132 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For three, of 147 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. For six out of 147 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Please plead. For 12, out of 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted the 2nd amendment. For one of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd Amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. For 21, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. For 23, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. For 27, of the 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. For 29 out of 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. For 26 of the 163 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. For six out of 163 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted. For 31, of 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. For 31, of the 163 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. For 32, of the 163 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Dragan Zivkov. For 34, of the 163 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment were submitted jointly by the MPs: Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalic. In five, of the 163 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. For 34, of the 163 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. For 36 of the 163 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. For 40, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. For 42, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. For 37, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. For 38, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. For 41, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. For 35, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. For 37, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. For 34, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. For 34, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. For 34, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. For 36, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. For 36, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. For 34, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. For 33, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. For 16, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 15, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Now I'm talking about the results of Mr Nikolic's amendment. For two, of 165 MPs. The amendment wasn't adopted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. For 31, of 165 MPs. The amendment wasn't adopted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. For 33, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. For 33, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. For 34, of 165 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. For 38, of 165 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 4th amendment. For 36 out of 165 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Milovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. For 35, of 165 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Nikola Savic has submitted the amendment to the head above article 5. In 30, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title of the head above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 23, out of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Suleiman Spaho. For 32, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. For two, of 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. For 34, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. For 37, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. For 36, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. For 35, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 34, out of 167 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Mr. Martinovic's amendment. For 35, of 167 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 33, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 38, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. In 20, of 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. In the same text, MPs Zlata Djeric and Boris Aleksic submitted the title above Article 6 of the amendment. Please make your statement on this amendment. For 29 out of 169 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment. Please plead. For 32, out of 169 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 39, of 169 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 6th amendment together. In four, of 169 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the head above article 7th, MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the amendment. For 34, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. For 34, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 39, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 37, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 37, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 33, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 39, of 169 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. For 38, of 169 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 40, of 169 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. For 11, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 39, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. For 40, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 9th amendment together. For 11, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 39, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. In 9, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 40, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. For 40, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Marina Ragus. For 39, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 38, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 34, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Riza Halimi. Please plead by the amendment to Riza Halimi and do not interfere with the vote, Mr. Aligrudic. Mr. Aligrudic, don't disturb the vote, I'll give you a warning. For four, of 172 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. For 40, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 41, of the 171 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 37, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 40, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 38, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 38, of the 171 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Gentlemen, don't interfere with the vote. You have exactly 15 seconds on the monitor. Please, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the vote stops for 15 seconds and I only speak the results. Here you have Miss Jovanovic sitting, who absolutely has insight into the monitor. Miss Jovanovic is not looking at the monitor. She has that possibility, like all vice presidents. Please don't interrupt. Mr. Todorovic, don't disturb the vote. For 13, of the 172 MPs. When you're vice president, you can sit in this seat and have insight. The 12th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. For 40, of the 172 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 39, of the 172 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 39, of the 172 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 44 of the 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. For 43, of the 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 41, out of 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. For 14, of the 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the head above Article 14th, MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the amendment. For 41, out of 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. For 43, of the 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 40, of the 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Marina Ragush has submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Please make your point. For 40, of the 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. For 16, out of 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 44 of the 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 43, of the 174 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 42, of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. For 46 out of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. For 43, of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. (Milos Aligrudić, from the scene: how many abstentions? ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 38 of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: how many abstentioned presidents, say because you're skipping? ) On Article 14 of the amendment was tabled by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. For 35, of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Alexander Jerkov submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 14a be added after Article 14. Seven out of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: who is against? ) National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic together submitted an amendment to Article 14. For 31, of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 42, of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. (Protects MPs.) ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: read the results of the vote, complete). For 43, of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I remind you, I'm under obligation to say the measures that you're disrupting your work. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: you must read all the results of the vote. You have to say everything and who's abstention and who's against and the total number. 30 out of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 34, of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 39, of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 44, of the 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 39, of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 16th amendment. For 44 of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 45, of the 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 41, of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. For 8, out of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 37, out of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic, 42 of the 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 39 out of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 17 was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 45, of the 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. For 43, of the 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 46 out of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 48 of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. In 45, of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 36 of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 44, of the 178 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 18 was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 44, of the 178 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. For 42, of the 179 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 41, of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the 18th amendment. 40 out of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the head above the 19th amendment was filed by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 37, out of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 19th amendment. For 44, of the 174 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the 19th amendment. For 43, of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. 40 out of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 43, of the 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 39, out of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. For 36, out of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic for 40, out of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. For 38, of the 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. For 41, of the 174 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 40, of the 173 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. For 37, out of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 44, of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 38 of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. 40 out of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. In 30, of the 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Riza Halimi. For six out of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. For 40, of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together: Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalić and the MP Marina Ragus. For 39, of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. For 11, of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 21 was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. For 40, of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the 21st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs together: Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalić and the National MP Marina Ragus. For 44 of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. For 42, of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. For 35, of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 42, of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 42, of the 177 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. For 35, of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 38 of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. For 45, of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 39, of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 42, of 176 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly tabled by MPs: Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 38 of the 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 27, out of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Olena Papuga to Article 24. For six out of 175 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. None for, of the 131 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure have been tabled by the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs on Article 24 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. I'm putting him to a vote. For 118, of 132 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. For 24, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 24th amendment. For six of the 171 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. For 40, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 36, out of 169 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Please declare the amendment of Zoran Antic to Article 25. In 10, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 33, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 31, out of 170 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 32, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please be quiet, gentlemen. In 30, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 33, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 26th amendment. Make a statement about this amendment. For six out of 169 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar Boris Aleksic's amendment to Article 26, please. For 33, of 169 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Sreta Perić, to Article 26. For 34, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. For 32, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalic, joint MPs Nebojsa Rangelović, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic, as well as MP Milan Avramović. For 36, of the 168 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 31, of 167 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. In 30, of 167 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 32, of 167 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. In 30, of 167 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on Boris Aleksic's amendment to Article 27. In 30, of 167 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Sreta Perić, to Article 27. For 32, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 28, out of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 36 out of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Dejan Mirovic to Article 28. For 34 of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Both Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 28th amendment. None for, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 34 of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 31, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Sreta Perić, to Article 29. For 35, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 33, of 166 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. For six out of 167 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Vladan Jeremic to Article 29. For 32, of 167 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Milan Avramović to Article 29. Quiet, please. For 19, of 165 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I ask the MPs to sit in their seats. Please. For 14 out of 165 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. In 30, of 165 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. For 33, of 165 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 31, of 165 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 31, of the 164 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. For 32, of the 164 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. For 35, of the 164 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. For 27, of the 163 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 31, of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Sreto Peric submitted to the title above Article 31 of the amendment. For 27, of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Miroslav Markicevic proposed to delete the article with one amendment. 31 to 40. For four, of the 160 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. In 24, of the 161 people's MP. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 25, of the 160 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. For 29 of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Milan Avramović, to Article 31. For 29 of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Arangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. For one of the 160 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. For three, of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 28, of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. For 29 of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 29 of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. For 31, of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. For 32, of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 31, of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandr Pejčić, Milice Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic, to Article 33. For 27, of the 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 29 out of 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. For 25, of 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. For 27, of the 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 31, of 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. For 33, of 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 29 out of 162 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 32, of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Please submit to the amendment of Mark Milenković, Article 33. For 29 of the 161 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Dejan Mirovic submitted the title above article 34. For 31, of the 160 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 29, of the 160 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 34th amendment. For 31, of the 160 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Avramovic submitted to the 34th amendment. For 26 of the 160 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 24, out of 158 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians: Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic together submitted to the 35th amendment. In 20, of 157 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 24, of 156 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 35th amendment. For 28, of the 156 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Avramovic submitted to the 35th amendment. For 29 out of 156 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. In 10, of 156 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. In 30, of 157 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verice Radet. For 27, out of 157 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 27, of the 156 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 26 out of 156 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. For 26 out of 157 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. For 27, out of 157 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. For 25, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 35th amendment. For 25, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Aleksandra Jerkov to Article 35. In four, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of the MPs: Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milice Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardžić, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic, to Article 36. Dejan Mirovic is also proposing this amendment. For 26 out of 156 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 27, of the 156 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic, as well as by MP Vladan Jeremic. For 26 out of 156 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 23, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Vladan Jeremic to Article 38. For 26 out of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Please declare the amendment of Milan Avramović to Article 38. For 25, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 27, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the Verica Radete amendment to Article 38. For 25, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 22, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 39th amendment. For 23, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. For 24, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Milorad Buha, to Article 39. For 16, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. For 26 out of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 25, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 27, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Mark Milenkovic to Article 39. For 26 out of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Radisa Ilic, to Article 39. For 27, of 156. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 23, of the 156 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 40th amendment. For 22, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Avramovic submitted to the 40th amendment. For 22, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 23, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. For 27, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 40th amendment. For two, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Please declare the amendment of Milan Avramović to Article 41. For 25, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Milorad Buha to Article 41. For 22, of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Aleksandra Jerkov to Article 41. For four, of 155 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. For 18 of 154 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 41st amendment. For six out of 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 18 of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Please declare the amendment of Milan Avramović to Article 42. For 23, of the 153 MPs. So the amendment wasn't accepted. Declar on the amendment of Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milice Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardžić, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic to Article 42. For 18 of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 17 of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 42nd amendment. For one of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. For 18, of 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 23, of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 23, of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Mark Milenkovic to Article 42. For 12, out of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Milan Avramovic submitted an amendment to Article 43. For 19, of 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 15, of the 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 18 of 151 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of the Verica Radete to Article 43. For 21, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the head above the 44th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Milorad Buh. For 22, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. For 22, of 151 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Zoran Krasic to Article 44. For 21, of 151 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Please declare the amendment of Milorad Buha to Article 45. For 21, of the 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the Verica Radete amendment to Article 45. For 22, of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 19, of 153 MPs. No amendment has been voted on. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 19, of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 19, of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. For 21, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. In 19, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. In 19, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 45th amendment. In 20, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Sreta Periæ to Article 45. For 22, of the 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Dejan Mirovic to Article 45. In 20, of the 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Vladan Jeremic to Article 45. For 22, of the 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. For 21, of the 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 19, of 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 46 of the amendment was filed by the Verse of Radet. In 20, of the 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 19, of 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 46th amendment. For 16, out of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 20, of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. For 21 out of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. For 21 out of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. For 19, of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 46th amendment. For 19, of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 19, of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 46th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. For 22, of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 47 was submitted by Zoran Krasic. For 20, of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 20, of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. For 23, of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. For 20, of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 47th amendment was submitted by Jelena Budimirovic. For one of the 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the head above article 48 by Zoran Krasic. For 21 out of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. For 18 of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. For 21 out of 153 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians: Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted the amendment together. For 14, out of 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. For 17 of the 149 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. For 19 of the 149 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 48th amendment. For 19 of the 149 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 17 of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Aleksandr Martinović to Article 48. For 22, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. For 17 of the 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 19 of the 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. In 20, out of 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 50th Amendment. For 18 of the 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. For 14, out of 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Mirko Munjic submitted to the 50th amendment. For 17 of the 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On top of the article, the 51st Amendment was filed by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. For 18 of the 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. For 18 of the 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 51st amendment. For 14, out of 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. For 19 of the 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. For 15, out of 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. (Dragan Todorovic from the site: Is this a folk kitchen? ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please be quiet, Mr. Todorovic. In 20, out of 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 51st Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. In two, of 150 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Lidija Dimitrijevic and joint MPs: Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalic. In 19, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 53rd amendment. For 18, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 54th amendment. For 19, of 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 54th amendment. For no one, of the 152 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the 55th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic and joint MPs: Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardžić, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalic. In 19, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 56th Amendment. In 19, of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians: Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 56th amendment. For 17 of the 151 people's MPs. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's article 56. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In light of the bill's proposal, the Government stated that there is a need for the law to be passed as soon as possible, since EU aid is intended for the implementation of regional development policy conditioned by the adoption of regional development law. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. For 118, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the motion for a law on regional development in general. For 117 of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the proposal for a law on regional development. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CONCERNATION PROTECTION After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the protection of competition, in principle. For 124 of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. For 15, of 145 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For 19 of the 146 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has accepted the amendment. For 129 out of 146 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. For 16, of the 146 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras. For two, of the 146 people's messengers. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras together submitted the 10th amendment. For two, of the 146 people's messengers. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras. In two, of 144 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. For 13, of the 144 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. For 13, of the 144 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras. In two, of 144 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and together Milos Radulović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Arsen Djuric. For 13, of 145 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. For 18, of 146 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. For six out of 146 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. For 16, of 147 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. For 15, of 147 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment proposed to add a new member of the 16a was jointly submitted by Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. For three, of 147 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. For 131 of 148 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. For 15, out of 149 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 19th amendment. For 16, out of 149 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 21st Amendment. For 15, out of 149 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. For 15, of 148 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government has accepted the amendment. For 115, of 145 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras. The government has accepted the amendment. For 122 of 144 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. For 13, of the 144 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. For 11, of the 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. For 12, of 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic. For 11, of the 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. For 8, of 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Say the amendments to Arsen Đuric, Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic, which suggest adding a new member of 23a. In five, of 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. For 11, of the 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 24th Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabaković. None for, of the 144 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. In 10, of 144 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 26 and article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For 11, of 145 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has accepted this amendment. For 116, of the 146 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. For 11, of the 146 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. For 14 out of 146 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Boris Aleksic submitted to the 28th amendment. For 13, of the 146 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government has accepted this amendment. For 120, of 145 MPs. I find this amendment accepted. Both Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted to the 31st amendment. In two, of 135 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. For 114 of 131 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 35th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras. The government has accepted this amendment. For 120, of 128 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras, submitted the amendment together. For two, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. For five, of 133 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. For 10, of 138 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 44th amendment. For 12, of the 138 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Dejan Mirovic to Article 45. For 10, of 138 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. For 10, of 138 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 51 and article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. For 11, of the 138 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the joint amendment between Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maraš to Article 57. For two, of 138 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Aleksandar Martinović, under article. 58. For 11, of the 138 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras together submitted the 59th amendment. For two, of 139 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras together submitted the 53rd amendment. For two, of 139 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The government has accepted this amendment. For 117 of 140 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 68th amendment. In 7, of 137 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. In 9, of 137 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. For 8, out of 137 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. In 7, of the 138 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Markovic-Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. The government has accepted this amendment. For 120 out of 136 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 75th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Markovic-Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. And this amendment has been accepted. For 117 of 127 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 78th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Markovic-Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. The government has accepted this amendment. For 117 of 126 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 79th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Markovic-Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. The government has accepted this amendment. For 118, of 126 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 79th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. For three, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 79th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please, we repeat the vote. First, we declare the amendment to Article 79, which Sreto Peric submitted. Who's in? Here you go. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 80th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Markovic-Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. The government has accepted this amendment. For 117 of 127 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 81st Amendment was jointly submitted by Dragan Markovic-Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. The government has accepted the amendment. For 119, of 127 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on the protection of competition in general. For 124 of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on the protection of competition. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on State Aid since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision and I am voting on the draft law on state aid control in principle. For 124 of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. For two, of 124 MPs. Gentlemen, there's no quorum, we're re-establishing the quorum. Someone probably didn't insert the card. Please, we're re-establishing the quorum. Gentlemen, I feel like we're all here. Check your cards again. We'll do it again. I'm setting a break until 4:00. [[After break – 16,15.]] There are 126 of us. We're going back to work. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. For three, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Of 126 MPs, 119 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 126 MPs, for 120. The amendment has been accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, for 116. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment, added after Article 2a, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, for 115. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment, which adds a new Article 4a after Article 4, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, one was against, sorry, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, for 118. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 5th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new member of 5a after Article 5a, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 6 of the amendment was filed by Milorad Buh. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above article 6 and to Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Avramovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Veselinović. For four, of 132 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. For 13, out of 140 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. For 12, of 142 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which is added after article 6 by a new member of the 6th, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. None for, of the 142 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Slobodan Vukovic submitted the title above Article 7 of the amendment. For 16, of 142 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. For 13, of the 142 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 7th amendment. For 16, of 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. For 15, of 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Nenad Popovic submitted the amendment to Article 7. For two, of 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. For 15, of 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. For 15, of 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. In 7, of 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Nikola Žutić to Article 8. None for, of the 130 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Jovan Damjanovic exited the hall or his card stands... Please, we'll determine the quorum. (Dragan Todorovic stood up and took out Jovan Damjanovic's card and put it on the table where the stenographers sit. ) This statement will go again, please, after we determine the quorum. Please, this is what we're gonna do. I'm gonna take five minutes off. Just to let you know, it's 16:30. At this point, a direct transmission is interrupted, but it will be delayed. Please, don't interrupt, I want to give notice. I'd also like to inform you that at 1700 hours we'll interrupt the vote and begin the session I scheduled in 17.00 hours. Five-minute break. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: Thieves! Please don't insult the MPs. You've indicated that one MP is missing. I took a break. We will re-establish the quorum, surely we will not work without 126 MPs. We reiterate the vote on Mr Radisa Ilic's amendment to Article 8. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. For 118, of 126 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The title above Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 9th amendment. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. For 110, of 126 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. For 113, of 127 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. For six out of 135 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. For 8, out of 139 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the government's amendment. For 113, of 140 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted the 9th amendment together. For one of the 138 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new Article 9a after article 9, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. For no one, of the 138 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Vesna Maric filed the title above the 10th amendment. In two, of 140 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. For six out of 140 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. For 14, of 143 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. For 14, of 144 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. For 16, of 145 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. For 14, of 145 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. For 16, of 147 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the government's amendment. For 120, of 147 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The title above article 11 was submitted by Dejan Mirovic. For 17, of 147 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of the 147 MPs, 16 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Of the 147 MPs, 19 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 147 MPs, 19 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of the 147 MPs, 16 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Of the 147 MPs, 118 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 146 MPs, 16 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. Of the 147 MPs, two are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 146 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has accepted the amendment, please let us enter into a statement on the amendment to the Government. Of the 145 MPs, 113 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. An MP named Milan Nikolic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Of the 143 MPs, 16 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Zoran Popovic. Of the 144 MPs, 17 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment, with correction, was filed by Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about Mrs. Ljiljak's amendment. Of the 144 MPs, 112 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Of 142, Ambassador 13 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 143 MPs, 15 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. Of the 144 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of the 144 MPs, 17 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 144 MPs, 16 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 144 MPs, 15 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 144 MPs, 15 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Babic. Of the 146 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 14 of the amendment was filed by Marina Ragush. Of the 145 MPs, 16 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. Of the 145 MPs, 108 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 145 MPs, 9 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 126 MPs, no one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 109 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The title above Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Suleiman Spaho. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. There's no quorum. Please check your cards. Come on, we're gonna have to determine the quorum. All the votes have been regular so far. Please confirm the quorum. Please take a look at your cards, or set them up in the electronic system's parliamentary units. Everyone's here. All you need to do is see if your cards are registered. 126 MPs are present. We're going back to work. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. For one of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The new member of 16a was proposed by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. For 110, of the 129 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The government has submitted the title above Article 17 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. For 117 of the 129 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. For one of the 131 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment with correction was filed by Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. For 116 of 129 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted to the 17th amendment. No one for, of the 130 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 17th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Just to let you know that there are 15 amendments left on this agenda. I suggest we finish this point, or it'll be within those 15 minutes, which are tolerated. The title above article 18 was submitted by Radisa Ilic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted the title above article 19th. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 19th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. For one, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. For one, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 21st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Dusanka Plecevic and Zoran Antić. For one, of 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 22 was submitted by Petar Jojic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Of the 122 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 112 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on a bill on state aid control, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted in favour, so I find that the National Assembly passed a bill on state aid control. Now we'll move to the session I scheduled in 17.00 hours. [[The session is terminated.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will establish a quorum to proceed with the voting day. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I want a word in the Rules of Procedure. Since you're not ashamed, there's no parliamentary unit involved. Gentlemen, I would like to ask you to check your cards, determine the quorum, to proceed with the vote. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: National MP Dragan Todorovic is looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. There are 126 of us. Mr. Todorovic, you answered the moment we moved to the quorum. I'm sorry she didn't work MPs. You'll get your word Monday. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INVESTICION FONDS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 127 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. I ask that we make a statement on the amendment accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee. For 119 of 127 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. For one, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. I ask that we make a statement on the amendment accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee. For 112, of 128 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 8th amendment. For two, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. For three, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. For three, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Decision of the National Assembly on the existence of general interest in the feedback of Article 1(1) of Article 1(1) of Article 1(1) of Article 1(1) of Article 8, Article 1, Article 9, in the work relating to the authorisation of the Commission for charters of value to prescribe a time limit for the coordination of the structure of the Investment Fund with the limits of investments, Article 13, Article 14(1) and Article 1(1). 15th and 16th. I'd like to remind you that it's Article 23. The proposal for a law shall be submitted by the Government to the feedback of those provisions. By way of derogation from Article 197(2), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that only certain provisions of the law may have a feedback, if this requires general interest in the adoption of the law. Also, pursuant to Article 146(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly shall specifically decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. In the light of the bill's proposal, the Government stated that the general interest for which the return fact of those provisions is proposed in view of the fact that the business of investment funds, as well as their further survival in the capital market, is at stake in the current financial crisis. It is therefore necessary to sign emergency measures to further halt the negative effects of the crisis on the operations of the funds, i.e. to propose provisions that allow them to be consolidated, overcome the crisis and create conditions for a stable future development, which also affects the functionality and sustainability of economic development in general. I would ask the National Assembly to decide whether there are general interests in the feedback of Article 1 of Article 1(1) of Article 1(1) of Article 1(1) of Article 8(1) of Article 9, in the work relating to the authorisation of the Commission for charters of value to prescribe a time limit for the harmonisation of the structure of the investment fund with the limits of investment, Article 13, Article 14(1) and Article 1(1). 15 and 16, as proposed by Article 23. It's a bill of law. Please take a look at your cards. We'll have to determine the quorum. We're establishing a quorum, please. It is necessary to establish whether there is a general interest in the feedback of those provisions contained in Article 23. It's a bill of law. For 112, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of those provisions contained in Article 23. It's a bill of law. I remind you he's a member of the 24th. The bill confirmed that the law would take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In light of the bill's proposal, the government has stated that the adoption of the law will contribute to a more successful implementation of the package of measures to mitigate the negative consequences of the global economic crisis created by the Serbian Government, i.e. to halting the negative effects of the crisis on the business of investment funds and creating conditions for their safer and more stable business. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. For 124 of 126 MPs. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act, in general. Of the 126 MPs, 124 voted in favour, so I find that the National Assembly passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE OBLIGATION OF OBLIGATIONS IN COOPERATION As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on mandatory traffic insurance in principle. For 119 of 126 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, so we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Milan Škrbić submitted to the 3rd amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Dragan Stevanović to Article 3. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the Marine Ragush amendment to Article 3. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Dobrislav Prelic to Article 3. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Dragan Zivkov to Article 3. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Boris Aleksic to Article 3. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Dragan Todorovic to Article 3. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Milorad Buha, to Article 3. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Nikola Savić to Article 4. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Elena Christmas-Talijan to Article 5. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Of 131, five for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz. Of the 129 MPs, four were declared. The amendment was not accepted. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by Dragan Acimovic. Of 127, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Milutin Jelic and Aleksandra Ilic. Of 127, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 8th Amendment. Of 127, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Zlata Djeric. Of 127, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Parliamentarians Zoran Shami and Arsen Đuric to Article 11. Of 127, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of 127, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by Jelena Budimirovic. Of 131, five for. The amendment was not accepted. Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Of 131, four for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. No one for, of 131 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Veselinović. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. Of 131 MPs, five for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Jadranko Vukovic. Of 130 MPs, two for it. The amendment was not accepted. MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 21st amendment. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Delic. Of 131 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Radulovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please be quiet. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. I ask you to first determine the quorum regarding Mr. Kasalovic's amendment. At one point, there were 125 MPs. Gentlemen, allow us to determine the quorum. 126 MPs are present, and we continue to make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 10 were declared. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 23rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 132 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Zoran Shami and Milica Radovic and MP Sasa Maksimovic. Three for, of 132 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 25th amendment. Of the 132 MPs, four is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz. Of the 128 MPs, three voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 27th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 29th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz. Of 128 MPs, three for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the 29th amendment. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak One for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz. Four for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34 amendments was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Of 127 MPs, 6 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. One for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz. Four for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 38th amendment were submitted by the MPs Radisa Ilic and Nikola Žutic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. One for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. Three for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above article 41 of the amendment. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 41st amendment. No one for, like, 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 44th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 45th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Radulovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 47th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic and Ljubomir Kragovic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milorad Krstin submitted to the 47th amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 48th amendment. None for 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Two for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 50th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Three for, of the 130 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. No one for, of the 130 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov Niko for, of 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Milan M. Nikolic submitted the title above Article 60 of the amendment. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 60th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 70th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. I ask you to make a statement about Mr Kasalovic's amendment, which was accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee. For 101, of 128 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 70th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic submitted to the head above Article 73th amendment. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Sreto Peric has submitted to the title above article 73. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. None for 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 73rd amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 74 of the amendment was filed by Marina Ragush. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Verice Radet. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Milovanovic submitted to the 74th amendment. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. No one for, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 75 was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Babic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. For 97, of 128 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 75th Amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 75th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above the 76th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Momcilo Duvnjak has submitted the title above article 77 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Branimir Djokic submitted to the 77th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above the 77th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 78th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 79 was submitted by Vladan Jeremic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 79th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 80 was submitted by Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 80th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, let me just inform you that the session of the Legislative Committee today, 8 July 2009 at 20.10 p.m., is one in the House of the National Assembly. I ask all board members to take part in the work. Members of the 80th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Mašić and Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 80th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 80th Amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 81 was submitted by Vesna Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 82 was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of 127 MPs, one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted the amendment to article 82. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 82nd Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. Of 127 MPs, one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 84 was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 84th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of the 126 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic submitted the title above article 85th. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Vitomir Plužarevic submitted to the 85th amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Marina Ragush has submitted an amendment to Article 86. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 86th Amendment was filed by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 86th amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Nikola Savic has submitted an amendment to Article 87. Please, we're going to have to determine the quorum, because I see 125 MPs on the monitor right now. Please pay attention to whether the cards are back. There are 126 of us. Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. Sorry, we're gonna have to re-amend Nikola Savic. So we declare the amendment of Nikola Savic to Article 87. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 88 was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 88th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to the 88th amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the title above article 89 by MP Milan Avramovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 90 was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 90th Amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 91 of the amendment was filed by Milorad Buh. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 92 was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 92nd Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Knezevic submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. For one of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Momcilo Duvnjak submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. Gentlemen of the Parliament... None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Mrs. Comic tells me that at one point she observed that there were no 126 MPs. We need to re-establish the quorum. Please, a quorum signal has been given and please check that you have inserted the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. The Duvnjak party submitted an amendment to Article 92. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 93 was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 93rd amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 93rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 94 was submitted by Nikola Žutic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 94th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 94th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above article 95th. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 95th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 96 was submitted by Radica Jocic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the amendment to Article 96. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted the amendment to Article 97. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 97 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 98 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 98th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Predrag Mijatovic submitted to the 100th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 100th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 101st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 101st Amendment, together, was submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Milutin Jelic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 99 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 101st amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 107th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Djeric and Milutin Jelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 111th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Radulovic and Zoran Shami. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 111th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic to Article 111. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 111th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of the 126 MPs no one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 112st amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic to Article 112. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 112th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic and Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 112 by Jorgenka Tabaković. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 112 of the amendment, Dušanka Plecevic submitted. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 112 by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 113 by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 114 by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milovanovic submitted to Article 114 of the amendment. No one for, of 126. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 115 was submitted by Nikola Savic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the title above article 116, by MP Dragan Stevanovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 117th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milos Radulovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 117th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milica Radovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to Article 118. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on mandatory traffic insurance in general. For 121 of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COMMUNITY LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on associations to the vote, in principle. For 125, of 127 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that MP Milisav Petronijevic withdrew amendments he submitted to Articles 2 and 80, and MP Sasa Dujovic, who submitted the amendment to Article 81. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. An MP, Otto Kishmarton, submitted to the 2nd amendment. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Shami and Miroslav Petkovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Igor Becic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of the above members of the 8th and Article 8th amendments, MPs Dragan Colic and Stefan Zankov submitted together. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Radulovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 10th amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Zlata Djeric. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. For four, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 107 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Miroslav Petkovic of 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by Jelena Budimirovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. To Article 20. Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Predrag Mijatovic, to Article 21. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Sreta Perić, to Article 22. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Parliamentarians Zoran Šamija and Željko Tomic to Article 23. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Boris Aleksic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Buh. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic together submitted to the 30th amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Radulovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Milice Vojić-Markovic, Donke Banović and Nikola Lazic to Article 30. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Zoran Popovic to Article 30. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Declar on the amendment of Veroljub Arsic to Article 30. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Start with a statement on the amendment of the MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic, to Article 32. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Of the 126 MPs, for four. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted an amendment to Article 34. Of the 126 MPs, 6 were declared. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Miladanovic and Jelena Budimirovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 36th Amendment were submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Of the 126 MPs, 12 were declared. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 36th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 36th amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Maric. Of the 127 MPs, no one has pleaded for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Zoran Shami. Of the 126 MPs, no one has spoken for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Gentlemen of the Parliament, please let us determine the quorum. On page 65, with the amendment of Srdjan Spasojevic, we'll have to repeat, there are 126 of us, but come on again, please put your cards on now. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please pay attention to your cards in the MPs' units. Here, plead out, of 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 38th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Mico Rogovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 39th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 42nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 6. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 43rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of the 126 MPs, no one for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Otto Kishmarton. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 103 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic submitted the 49th amendment together. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted together to the 58th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Elena Christmas-Talian has submitted an amendment suggesting that the head above article 59 be deleted. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title above article 59 be deleted. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Slobodan Vukovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above article 60. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 60th Amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Branimir Djokic submitted to the 60th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title above article 61 be deleted. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted an amendment proposing that the title above article 62 be deleted. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Srdjan Spasojevic submitted an amendment to Article 62. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Radica Jocic has submitted an amendment to Article 63. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 63rd amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 6rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 63rd amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted to the 63rd amendment. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 63rd amendment was jointly submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dusan Maric submitted an amendment to Article 64. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 65th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Mr. Vladan Milojkovic has submitted an amendment to Article 66. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please, gentlemen, take a look at the cards - 125 is on the monitor, we'll have to re-establish the quorum. Here, I'm giving the signal now. You can put in the cards. Thank you. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 66th amendment. I'm sorry, we're gonna have to go back. Dejan Mirovic's amendment to Article 66, we declare. I'm putting him to a vote. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 66th amendment. No, it's perfectly regular. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted an amendment to the title above article 67 and suggested that it be deleted. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to keep your voice down, and as far as your findings are concerned, if you don't hear, I'd ask you to insert the cards. The 67th Amendment was submitted by Mirko Munjic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. No one was in favour of this amendment, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Nikolic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted an amendment to article 68 and suggested that the title be deleted. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Dusanka Plecevic submitted to the 68th amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 68th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 68th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one has spoken for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted together to the 70th amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 70th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Of the 127 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 71st amendment. Of the 127 MPs, the amendment was declared 8. The amendment was not accepted. Milovanovic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. What's the matter? Throw in a card so I can hear you. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 73rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 73rd amendment were jointly submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 74th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 78th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zoran Nikolic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted together to the 79th amendment. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 79th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 79th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Shami has submitted an amendment, with a correction, to Article 81. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Come in, please. No one for from 126. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 86th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 86th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 88th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 89th Amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 7 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic submitted together to the 90th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill of association to the vote, in general. Of the 126 MPs, 122 is in favour. I am pleased to find that the National Assembly has passed the bill of association. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COMMUNAL POLICE LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on the municipal police, in principle. Of the 129 people's messengers, 121 people's messengers made known. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 133 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 133 MPs, five were declared. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 135 MPs, 6. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 134 MPs, four were declared. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Of the 134 MPs, one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 134 MPs, 8. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment. This is, by the way, page seven. This side was glued together, so we're pleading again. Of the 136 MPs, in 6. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Radulovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 129 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 128 MPs, one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of 127 MPs, one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has accepted the amendment. I put this amendment to Mr. Maric's vote, which was accepted by the government. Of the 126 MPs, 109 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 6th amendment together. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Please, quorum, gentlemen of the Parliament. Now I'm going to give a sign when you can put, or I'm sorry, no, not yet. The signal for that is given, you can put the cards on, please. I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] Put your cards in and concentrate on that shop. Thank you. MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 6th amendment. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 7th amendment together. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. We're going back to page 20. They're informing me that we need to do it again. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. None for, of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by Dusan Maric. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. For three out of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic and Jovan Palalic. The government has otherwise accepted this amendment. For 111 of 127 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. For three, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabakovic. For three, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the 15th amendment. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Nikolic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Babic. Of the 128 MPs, three are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by Milet Poscurica. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Knezevic submitted the 20th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic together have submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 20a be added after Article 20a. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulović, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic and MP Igor Bečić submitted to the 21st amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic and MP Jelena Budimirovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. Of the 127 MPs, two are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 27th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, four are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 29th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, four are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the 32nd amendment together. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 126 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, four are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 11 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Of the 126 MPs, one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 48th amendment. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 48th amendment. For one, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. None for, of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 49th amendment. For one, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Ilic. For two, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 50th amendment. For two, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision by amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the draft law on the municipal police, in general. For 124 of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the municipal police. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for an ELECTRONS DOCUMENT LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the electronic document, in principle. For 123, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 6th Amendment. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević and Milica Radovic together submitted the 14th amendment. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević and Milica Radovic and MP Zoran Krasic. None for, of the 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting to the vote the draft law on the electronic document, in general. For 122, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for an electronic document bill. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which the MPs pointed. I remind you of the provisions of Article 100(6) and Article 10, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Milos Radulovic, at a session on 10 June 2009, at 17 hours and 48 minutes, pointed to an injury to members 27, 100 and 85. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please quorum again. Please, we have three more, four votes, let's concentrate and endure, it is an effort, but please, gentlemen Members of Parliament, let's do it too. Thank you. Please state this, MP Milos Radulovic, at a session on 10 June 2009, at 17 hours and 48 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27, 100 and 85. Rules of Procedure. Please state whether or not the members are injured. No one voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Ambassador Milos Aligrudic, at a session on June 12th 2009, at 21 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. No one voted yes. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vjerica Radet, at a session on June 12, 2009, at 21 and 52 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27, indent 1 and 3. Rules of Procedure. Of the 126 MPs, no one has come forward. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 15 June 2009, at 14 o'clock, pointed to a violation of Article 85 item 4. Rules of Procedure. Of the 126 MPs, no one has come forward. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I thank you for your endurance, perseverance and quality work. The session is closed at 20, 25 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23964	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The 10th Extraordinary Session of July 8th 2009 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 17.15 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-08-0.u23965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs: Donka Banović, Milica Radovic, Zlata Djeric, Elvira Kovac and Đuro Peric. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the predetermined agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the meeting of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, which was called upon at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 169 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 10th Extraordinary Session, with the predetermined agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2009, the following Dn e n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the budgetary system, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, 3. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of "Marfin Bank" a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act. I would like to remind you that Article 106 is Section 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the National Assembly to meet in an extraordinary session at the request of at least one third of the MPs or at the request of the Government, with a predetermined agenda, so that no changes in the agenda can be proposed in relation to the agenda for the extraordinary sitting. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic is, on the basis of Article 90 paragraph 3 and Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on: the draft law on the budgetary system, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, the proposal for a law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Marfin Bank" a.d. Belgrade, under the authority of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", the draft law supplementing the Labour Act. Does MP Srdjan Milivojevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Finalizing vote: 124 out of 127 MPs. I agree that we have decided on a proposal to merge the debate, and I would like to inform you that the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will continue on Monday, July 13th, at 10.00 p.m.
