ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17347	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 119 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliaments attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate on the agenda, in the application of Article 235(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that allows for information and explanations, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word was requested by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17348	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the first question is for the government, regarding these famous salaries and the alleged reduction of the salaries of directors of public enterprises and directors of agencies, as these salaries of directors of various agencies have been announced today, which are rudely high, and then announced that the salaries of more than 40,000 dinars in the public sector will be reduced by 10%. What kind of Mao Ce Tung's justice – that lady who has a salary of over 350,000 now will have 35,000 less, and people who can barely move the end and have a salary of the poor 40,000 will have 4,000 less? What exactly is this about? What's the demagogue? Then Dinkic further explains that they will no longer have bonuses. And they're supposed to have bonuses? Will that limit, previously published, apply to some 180,000 dinars? The second question – by welcoming this campaign against the urban mafia, I ask the Minister of the Interior what has been done about establishing illegal construction in Obrenovac municipality, which has a syasthet of modality: urban conditions beyond the urban plan, building permits beyond urban conditions and plans, building permits with advance payment or payment at the beginning, at the expense of budgets, one-off over-squares, construction through companies that do not have the authority to build, non-payment of taxes by alleged investors, construction beyond all technical standards, technical receptions and use of permits are thought names? Then the Ministry of the Interior will, logically, ask why they should be competent, not urban inspections, construction inspection, budget inspections, etc. Because there are some people at the top of the local government today, local and urban services and some of your investors. In order to get rid of those who do their job fairly, both in the municipality and in the government, and in public enterprises, and honest builders, the Ministry of Interior should see these abuses, because some directors of public enterprises and some people at the top of local authorities allow it, or they are secret investors. I ask the interior minister what has been done about the events in the football club "Belgrade" from Karaburma, which has been turned into a construction site and where there is no word about football in terms of status abuses, financial abuses, urban abuses? There's some armed guards guarding the apartments, so I think that should get in the way. Finally, a question for the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, as I also get information that in some municipalities, and there is the Obrenovac municipality, it intends that members of the councils of local communities are appointed, or not elected, and I am interested in whether it is in accordance with the law, with democratic standards and something that should be the course of modern democracy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17349	Does any of the presidents or authorized representatives ask for a word? The word was requested by Parliament MP Marina Ragush, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17350	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, what the SRS is interested in is this: is it possible that when it comes to, conditionally speaking, lowering budget positions for certain resolution ministries there was no agreement in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? We have already received statements from several resolution ministers. So, in particular, questions for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr Cvetkovic and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic. What is frantic to us is to set priorities for the government of the Republic of Serbia in terms of fighting organised crime and corruption, which we also consider to be the top priority on the government's priority scale, because without it we cannot move on. We're interested in how did the government imagine that with a budget that was reduced by 26%, a fight against organised crime or corruption could be successfully conducted? Here's what Minister Dacic says... And what is amazing is that no one has consulted him on such a significant reduction in funds, and should implement what are priorities, even in terms of joining the EU. Among other things, he says that the removal of 26% of resources in a situation where there is no money for basics... So, he says they don't have the money to operate a criminal service, they don't have the dust money that prints are discovered, DNA labs, uniforms, food, fuel. "We have a problem with the speed of issuing passports, but how can I solve it when I cannot hire new people." How are we going to work on visa liberalisation projects, border systems, border control and roads, when we don't have basic material for a national crime lab? Not to mention, the Home Office doesn't have enough people. We were almost witnessing a brutal event when a police officer was killed while doing his police duty. We are afraid, given this trend, that what has been given as a priority will not be met, but we must get a concrete response from the Serbian government, therefore from Prime Minister Cvetkovic, and from the interior minister that he thinks he is working with such reduced funds, especially whether anyone has consulted him on such a significant reduction of funds. One of the interviews that met us at the press clip is Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's interview, the minister of infrastructure, who also says he will not be able to meet what was chosen as a priority, especially when it comes to Corridor 10, precisely because of a significant reduction of 26%. In doing so, Mr. Mrkonjic states that no money has been provided for land expropriation along Corridor 10, which was bought by tycoons, such as Buha, Lazarevic and others. That's about 85,000 euros, unless I'm wrong. So what we also expect from Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and Mr. Cvetkovic is to tell us that they think that, based on the reduction of budget positions for these resolution ministries, these ministries meet what they were given as a priority. Not to tell you how important it is to build a car, especially Corridor 10, because it means hiring more people, means spending credits that are there, not being spent, going interest, and not starting any initiative. We suspect that no activity related to Corridor 10 will be launched. For the Ministry of Agriculture, another example – Mr Dragin, the minister of agriculture, also warns the Serbian public, because no one has consulted him about reducing budget funds, that agriculture will come to very low branches, that this area will be hit hard because it will not be able to implement everything that is a plan of activity for such an important, if not the most significant, area in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17351	The word has been passed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, authorised representative of the Group of Representatives, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17352	On behalf of the Prescribing Club, I will repeat the question – why did the government publish salaries in the agencies and authorities of the administration for which it was responsible, with amounts showing receipts only in February 2009? I ask you not to underestimate the public interest or our way of measuring all the benefits that go to the budget and delivering to the public of Serbia the revenues in agencies and public enterprises covering all payments for 2008, with all the privileges and bonuses that we see as the most significant in the agencies, i.e. the authorities of the government that are on the monopoly of the state or to sell state property (when it comes to the privatisation agency), or to issue public documents related to the business of the state (this is the central register), or to sell state property through the liquidation of banks, or bankruptcy, which is still ongoing, make the most possible receipts, which are directly or indirectly linked to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the Government another question: on behalf of what is the suspension of our ongoing assembly session, and why is there no way to find a way, which is widely used years ago, which is that the regulation carries out savings in terms of reducing the salaries of all those for whom the Government predicts that this will bring significant savings? So, on behalf of which do we interrupt the Assembly session, if the Government spends extremely large amounts of money on regulations to encourage subsidies, various investments that have shown that they do not give the desired effects? I don't see any reason why the interruption of work should be conditioned by such a requirement, since otherwise no one asks us many questions as to what measures you're taking. One particular question, since we are talking about Dinkic as author, most often, of these regulations, we are talking about the Privatisation Agency as an organisation that spends most of the state's money, including budget money, I have a concrete question for the Agency – how many contracts have been broken for the purchase of social capital between April 2002 and 10 April 2009 and how many privatisation agencies have returned the money to customers? There are indications that a large amount of funds unknown from the Privatisation Agency have been used to repay money to customers. The question that complemented this earlier: how many privatised companies went into bankruptcy between April and April 10, 2009 and how many companies not privatised during that same period went into bankruptcy? I would pray that these questions go to the right addresses, for since I have been asking questions in this congregation, I have never received an answer to questions before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17353	The word is made by MP Slobodan Maras, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17354	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, today is 15 days since I first asked Prime Minister Cvetkovic what is the economic and state interest in public enterprises advertising, advertising or sponsoring a daily paper, more precisely the daily "Justice", which is the fact that a party voted here in parliament. The best answer came last night on a television show, but it is also this silence that comes from Prime Minister Cvetkovic, i.e. not answering the question, the best answer that is interest. We'll be resilient to get an answer to that question. We also have to ask – if the government is already (the question is also addressed to Prime Minister Cvetkovic) planning austerity measures, why doesn't it start first of its own, why doesn't it reduce the number of ministries but wait for the congress of a party to be held at the end of the year? Why doesn't the government make sure that a public company has damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia by about 100m euros? So the oil industry of Serbia handed over a final bill showing a profit of 4.5 billion dinars. After that, according to Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, along with the intervention of the new owner, a deadline was requested for the new final account, which showed a loss of 3.5 billion dinars. It's a total of 8 billion dinars. If we know that the NIS Management Board in 2008 has decided that, unlike previous years, for the first time, all the funds representing profits will be transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget, we can say that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is damaged by about 100m euros. Who's going to be responsible for that? Every day, the "Minister for All" sends us a message that the various measures proposed by the Government, which he, as a spokesman for the government, brings to the public, will bring about a improvement in this country, or that we will save a lot. I would like Prime Minister Cvetkovic to answer a question at least once, that is, to say who is responsible, what the state will do because the budget of the Republic of Serbia is damaged by 100m euros because the oil industry of Serbia, instead of the profits it has achieved, is now at a loss. We can't wait for that day to discuss economic measures here. I hope that some ministers who come to this hall after the redistribution, and hopefully before the congress of a political party, will no longer be ministers, that the number of ministries will be reduced and that the government will thus show that it is being saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17355	The word is by MP Rade Obradovic, authorised representative of the DSS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17356	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Since the end of the negotiations with the IMF has been announced, practically every day we have the opportunity to listen to bids and guesses on what kind of economic policy Serbia will lead in the coming months. It is more than clear that the government entered these negotiations without any strategy and that it has gone completely unprepared into such an important business. For example, first it was bided that we had enough $1 billion, the negotiations entered with a two-billion-dollar figure, the negotiations were concluded with a three-billion-euro deal. That's twice as much as originally planned. To make it clear to all those who see this and to the MPs – once the agreement is ratified, every citizen of Serbia, from the youngest to the oldest, will be in charge of another 400 euros in credit. That loan has to come back at some point. The most important issue now is that Serbia will save in the budget. Was it not normal for the budget savings to be the first thing that we enter into these negotiations, not to conclude negotiations and discuss such an important matter? As a result of the negotiations, we have an estimate that the decline in gross social product this year will be 2%. We DSS MPs, and other colleagues, opposition MPs, have warned multiple times both during the rebalancing process and during budget adoption that the evaluations are completely unrealistic and that the plans do not correspond to statistical indicators. Before we finish this job, and next week's session is announced, we need to look at what the indicators look like in the first three months of this year. Budget revenues are actually down 15% and expenditures are 9%. In other words, although the crisis is largely under way, the income side has problems and there is no expenditure. In February, a 20% drop in industrial production was recorded. Based on the structure of exports, when we look at what we're exporting, what we're importing in the first three months, it's quite clear that we can't expect any positive changes in industrial production in the coming months. It is clear that the year will end with a decline in industrial production. It's only unclear whether it's 10, 15, 20, or who knows how much percent. Exports are down 30%, imports are also 30%. There's a significant drop in demand. Only in February is the decline in trade traffic to a little 2 to 16%. With all the moderate optimism we can have, it's clear that the decline in gross social product is likely to be about 5%, that nothing bad happens by the end of the year. The DSS Parliament Club has repeatedly sought, especially before the start of negotiations with the IMF mission, to hold a session of the Assembly to discuss all these important issues, the result of which would be a harmonised platform. Then we wouldn't have all this wandering we've got. That session was gone and that's why we're able to listen and read in the press all this stuff that I'm talking about. I have two questions for the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic – was there a debate at the cabinet session on the platform for negotiations with the IMF? If so, when was the government session held and exactly what was the agenda point at which the country's future was discussed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17357	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, who is the mandated representative of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Energy and Prime Minister Cvetkovic. It is related to news that Serbia's and Austria's Hit signed a 5.5m-euro contract Friday to build a production line at the Banatski Dvor underground gas warehouse. My question is, what is this business related to the law that we have ratified in the Assembly, an energy agreement that I will remind you of, three things. The first thing was to build a production line in Banatski Dvor, the second thing was to build a "South Stream" master pipeline, and the third was to sell NIS to Russia's Gazprom company. Of these three things, it is only certain that the assets of the AP Vojvodina, which was kidnapped, were donated to the Russian side for a price which was four times lower than the estimated price, and on the other two things we received firm assurances of all officials who voted in favour of the agreement, although the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina had since the beginning been against this, that a memorandum was signed which, due to the importance of the statesmen behind it was extremely significant. I'll say yes to point 11. The memorandum discusses the exclusive nature of the negotiations, and it is said that from the moment of the signing of this memorandum, "Srbigas" delivers "Gasprom Export" exclusive law in the area of considering possible participation in the project and will not conduct negotiations on participation with other companies. If this is the same business, it means that the Republic of Serbia has violated the provisions of this memorandum and my question is – what guarantee do we have that Gazprom will also not violate the provisions of the memorandum? It is obvious that the South Stream will be, because it seems that the Memorandum is still not as significant as the officials behind the gas deal tried to convince our public. "Srbigas" will obviously pay 5.5 million for some job for which there is no money, given that we hear every day of President "Serbigas" in what debts this company is in and that after this job done for 5.5m euros "Srbigas" and the bed of the Banatski Dvor will give to the Russian side, which will this time be equipped and paid again by the citizens of Serbia, since these works are financed from the Serbian budget, which is nothing more than the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, primarily by the citizens of Vojvodina, given that they are the largest gas consumers. My question, in the end, is also addressed to the finance minister – if that is true, then why does the AP Vojvodina also have an obligation to finance from the Capital Investment Fund the construction of a gas storage facility in Banatski Dvor, if this will be done by "Srbigas" and if all this is true, then why does someone continue to deceive the Serbian public by having the Russians do something with that warehouse and in what way will it be donated to the Russian side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17359	Whether any of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are reporting for notification and explanation, in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) If not, I order the National Assembly’s competent service to, on the basis of a stenogram of presentation of Members of Parliaments who participated today in the debate using their right under Article 235, during the day, and at the latest tomorrow, to forward requests for questions and explanations to the respective members of the Government or the Prime Minister, with a special instruction that, with the request of the MPs for an explanation or notification, a quote of the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to which each member of the Government and the Prime Minister is limited by a deadline to respond to the MP requesting an explanation or notification. If no one is answering for a word anymore, and before we move to the opening of the debate in principle, i.e. the continuation of work, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on the National Assembly to pay tribute to Vladimir Grandic, a member of the MUP who has laid down his life by doing his duty. (Glory to him.) ) We are going to work on the agenda and I am informing the MPs of the absence of the MPs. Today's work has been prevented from being attended by MPs Jelena Travar-Miljević and Nikola Novakovic. I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly is Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, and according to Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for meetings, apart from the proposing representatives, to be attended by Dejan Jovanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Vesna Arsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Nenad Ilic, Adviser at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Dejan Radulovic, Adviser at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Vladislav Cvetkovic, Adviser at the Privatisation Agency and Branka Radovic from the Privatisation Agency. We move on to a joint principle search of 19, 20 and 21 items of the agenda – PROPOSES ON THE FUND FOR SERBIA DESCRIPTION, AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON COMMUNICATION AND THE DISCONTINUED LAW ON THE FUND FOR SERBIA AND FINISHING THE POLJNOTRGOVAL BUSINESS I hereby inform MEMBER MEETING MEETING MEETING MEETINGS that are at the disposal of MEP groups: SRS Group - 35 minutes, ZES Group - 62 minutes, MEP Group G17 plus – eight minutes and 30 seconds and PUPS Group - six minutes. The other parliamentary groups took advantage of the time available to them on application in principle, and the time available to the presidents, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups, is: National MP Marina Ragus has nine minutes, MP Vlajko Senic, authorised representative of the G17 plus - seven minutes, MP Radojko Obradovic, authorised representative of DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - six minutes and 30 seconds, MP Tomislav Nikolic, MP Advanced Serbia - six minutes, MP Mladen Grujic, MP NS - six minutes, MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, authorised representative of the PUPPS - 15 minutes. There is a word, if he wishes, of Marina Ragush in the debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17360	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, it's good to see you today. In the last day of last week, in the debate in principle, I tried to present to concrete economic data an economic picture, finally a social picture, within which we need to adopt a package, a set of laws that should in some way amortise the effects of the global financial crisis. We suspect that this set of economic laws will be able to overcome the effects, more and more severe effects for Serbian citizens, when it comes to the global financial crisis. We will try to further support this with concrete financial and economic indicators, trying to adhere to official sources and certain statistics signed by the state of Serbia. I would not repeat myself and therefore spend the patience and time of all of us, especially the citizens of Serbia, who, you will allow, are the most important in this business, because it concerns their daily life. So I presented the information that the Ministry of Economics and Regional Development provided to us as a parliamentary group, the Ministry of Labour, because before the end of last year, we were so interested in whether the data on the unemployment rate and projections on the number of people who would be left without their incomes were accurate, or whether they were relevant to the reality, and which appeared in the means of public information. Then Mr Ljajic and Dinkic provided us with official information on the basis of which certain companies will fire workers. The figure at the end of 2008, with a projection for the first quarter of 2009, was about 67,000 people. What we can say, political correctness works, is that projections of the effects of the financial crisis can't be guessed. It is a new situation, which has not been created by the behaviour of the Serbian government (it is also a fact), but what is missing, it is our political belief, is the response of the Serbian government and is now a solid crisis, which I think we will all find difficult to come out of. What we have also, precision for, and yet on the basis of official data, referred to the Minister of Resort (we expected it to be there, so that eventually we can ask another additional question or ask an additional explanation) is the following – how is the employment plan planned in 2009 and what is it that Serbian citizens can expect from the government's management team, how will they manage to overcome the effects of the financial crisis and how will it affect what they are most interested in, and that is their economic and social security? So on February 25th, 2009, we... Unfortunately, the opportunity was such that we could never adequately respond to this subject, and now, given the circumstances, we have enough space and time to deal with this most serious problem for the state of Serbia. From the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, in our official response to the parliamentary question, from the Employment Sector, we received a proposal for an active employment policy programme in the Republic of Serbia for 2009, which represents a national employment action plan defining priorities, objectives, tasks, resources and competences for achieving employment policy in 2009. We needed this to see how the government is thinking about the strategy of overcoming the financial crisis, whether the strategy, as well as the plans of the activity, is really enforceable, or whether these are attempts to spread state optimism, which the government has the right, political correctness to do, at times of crisis, but we think it's much better open to say whether all of this is from the priorities that I'm going to make, and what is the state, official response, can be implemented in action. At that time, we are told that the priorities of the employment policy in 2009 are retaining the employment levels of 2008, which we think is completely unrealistic. You will deny us, of course, if there is any fresher information, in the sense that there really is some financial injection that will keep the employment rate from being in 2008. We see that even certain ministries, in fact all of the Serbian government, are forced to reduce the number of employees without talking about the rest of the public sector. With these measures taken by the government, it seems to me that the number of unemployed will be much higher. Also, solving the working-law status of extra employees. We don't understand, and I'd like to hear during this afternoon's work, whether there really is a financial structure to solve this problem, because we think it's also going to be one of the major problems. You multiply anyone who belongs to that order by three or four, how many his family numbers; the problem will be multiplied three or four times by a system of merged courts, because the average family in Serbia is three or four, which are also in trouble, because it will likely belong to a line of extra employees or people who have lost their jobs. So there's no dilemma, we really think the state administration is overloaded. The number of people who have taken over since 2000 and who have multiplied over the past nine years is inadmissible. But on the other hand, that would be a populist story. In a period of financial crisis, what we can only be interested in is what you're going to do with people who are going to have to lose their jobs. In what way will you make a possibility, which is a story that refers first to the Development Fund, to make these people, conditionally speaking, their monthly existence? So one problem is the excessive state administration and the number of employees in public enterprises. It's a huge problem from the perspective of all the financial institutions that enter into negotiations with us. A huge overload for such a small, undeveloped state, which, conditionally speaking, doesn't even have an economy. But now, in front of all of us, truly human and human, the most important question arises – what about the people who will be left without their bread? We hear the Ministry of Agriculture is already 25 or 29 people. I apologize for the number. He had to fire. It'll be a trend for all the other ministries. It will be a trend for many public enterprises, for many businesses in Serbia. What about the people who are out of a job? How will you provide jobs? We need to think about long-term solutions. Don't just tell us that education funds are foreseen, because as long as seminars continue, while training is under the National Employment Service or any other institution, these people need to live on something, they need to feed their families, children need to be educated, older members of the household should be treated. These are all problems that are everyday and there is no delay. It's just that we would really love and hopefully further all the government representatives here will still come with a set of analysis of the situation in the portfolio offering concrete solutions, so we can adequately prepare ourselves and enter interactive communication, because, you'll admit, this is the only way, the only place where the opposition and the government meet, finally, each other we control with one single goal right now, at this truly important historical-political moment, which is overcoming the financial crisis, which is the priority of all of us. It's not time to pick up cheap political points, nor to reach out for certain repressive measures so as not to ask awkward questions. So, we want to find the best way to find a serious criticism of the situation in which we are found, which will provide any financial or social security for people who are now more and more scared. What is a fact, in Serbia people are more afraid of staying out of work than dying, that's a fact. If that is not a significant piece of information for the Serbian government, then I don't know what should be more important. I expect concrete data in which you think, with a certain financial structure that you have, to replace all of this which will definitely be your problem over the next few months. The next item that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development made at that time in its response, February 2009, is an announcement of an increase in formal employment in the private sector and a reduction in regional differences. It's really beautifully formulated here, but we think it's completely deviating from reality because the reduction of regional differences hasn't happened in much better periods, conditionally speaking since 2000, so let's just say, I'm not going any further because of the most different circumstances. It seems to us that these regional differences from region to region have grown. Then you have the appearance of internal, conditionalally speaking, migration, because only large city centers offer opportunities to people who are out of work, who are trying in every way possible to feed their family. They come to Belgrade, Novi Sad and another centre that can answer their employment question. Then you have a situation where the first people of those centers return them to those places where they came from. Why do I mention this in every item? I want to see if there's a strategy of concrete thinking in terms -- this is a priority, let's focus the greatest forces there, let's mobilise the best possible means. I think that the linear cutting of the budget of all ministries is a completely wrong approach, that's our political belief. Somewhere there must be a priority, and this crisis really doesn't have to be handled equally, but everyone has to contribute to the solution. The third item also offered to us by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is the harmonisation of labour market offers and demand through the implementation of active employment policy measures. The fourth is improving social dialogue, increasing the efficiency of the National Employment Service. We think all of this can be done only if there's money, it's our belief, and we're trying to see where that money will be found, for these really terrible problems. The 2009 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia has set the amount of three billion dinars for active employment policies implemented by the National Employment Service, amounting to 7.210.000,000 dinars for the resolution of surplus employees in transition funds. The euro rate relative to the dinar then, you will admit, was completely different from the euro course now, so the nominal value has fallen and these funds are absolutely not enough for what they are already a very, very serious problem. Among other things, the resolution ministry stated here – taking into account the state of the labour market, employment policy priorities, defined funds for 2009, in what way subsidies. However, what was particularly important to us is – under the projects implemented in the Republic of Serbia, additional resources have been provided for active employment policy measures, as well as strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, i.e. the employment sector and the National Employment Service. Then we have a list of several projects and a certain financial structure, so the UNDP project "Supply to Work"... He seems to us, since we don't have a project... The duration should be 2007-2009, the financial resources foreseen for the implementation of this project are 2m euros. It would be nice to have this project, or at least to get from the RES, so let's see how this project affects what the Ministry says is the priority of solving these projects. Then the TR project, Support for the unemployed and the development of human resources, "We work together to work", and two and a half million euros, so the duration is 2007-2009. We would like to see what results are in the first year of project realization; it would be much easier to see that at least there is a trend, it can not be very good at once, but there is a trend that will be better. Thirdly, it is a project to promote youth employment in Serbia, and we will at one of the points of the agenda that is certainly coming to us to talk about the employment of young people in Serbia. We had a frantic example, let's say, last night on one of Belgrade's televisions, which, I must tell you, caused a young population in the first place, an example of a guy who graduated from a medical college with an average score of over nine, who had to enroll in a medical and technical school, but not to find a job in Serbia, but to find work somewhere in Western European democracies countries. To this Serbian President Mr Tadic said, "Here, this is a positive example, see how he does not sit down, solves his problem." I haven't seen a bigger auto goal. You have a situation where children who achieve an extraordinary average... Let's not talk about averages, the guy's finished medical school, which is definitely college, which means you're giving up everything, you can't do with it absolutely nothing. He came into a situation to finish high-school medical school, to get out of the country, and somewhere along the way, he tried to get a job and make a living. Why am I saying this? It's not yesterday's or yesterday's situation, it's the climate within which we met the crisis in Serbia. The fourth project, "A support for the development of national employment policy", is also the duration of 2007-2009. A million and a half euros is the financial structure of this project. Finally, the fifth UNDP project, UNICEF -- "Advantage National Efforts to Promote Youth Employment and Migration Management". This is a very interesting project for me. It should last from 2009 to 2012. The financial structure is $6,143,148 U.S. dollars. So what we expect in some future period is to see the final effects of these projects, whether it's just seminars, training, strengthening institutional capacity, or whether it's concrete support for job creation, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and all in the context of this topic, which is the Development Fund. My colleagues, without whom I would certainly not be able to participate in this principle debate and in the debate in general, my colleagues Bhuha, Dragan Stevanovic and Mr Dejan Mirovic, who were to present this debate, prepared significant material, in terms of concrete data and arguments that we can finally and talk about without sounding like a terrible political phrase, because no one has the moral capacity to do so, nor is he willing to discuss this bill in this way. Mr. Buha has, on condition, placed several dilemmas on the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia which I will now present both to the public and to you, which are specific data. It seems to me that I also asked this question on Thursday, when we started discussing this topic, and the question is: what about the Development Fund to date, what has the Development Fund achieved specifically to this day, in terms of the leprosy of all those competences that the Development Fund has? We'd like to hear concrete analysis or at least specific data, because, as Mr. Buha says, the impression is that the Development Fund has been marginalized. On what grounds does he claim that the Development Fund was marginalized? It's exactly what financial resources are. So the relationship between institutions or states to a particular area or a particular problem in the first place can be seen based on how much resources it defines to solve this or that problem. That's how Mr. Buha said here, among other things, because of the public, that the Fund's funds were being provided from their own resources, budgets, donations, etc. As much as the financial structure was really provided, he gave one table, these are certain data for the period 2007-2009. In 2007, the Fund's own funds were 14,000,000 dinars, two billion dinars' budget funds, totalling 16,000,000,000 dinars, and the law envisioned one and a half percent of gross domestic product. So the funds that were planned and did not go to the Development Fund were 35,430,000,000 dinars for 2007. We are in this situation of terrible problems, in the situation of the global financial crisis because no reform course has been implemented that you promised in 2000. For what reason? We will try to make it very transparent for the Serbian public during this regular session, and it has absolutely nothing to do with the opposition; it will prove that the funds have been purposelessly spent, that what the law provides has not been done, that the elections have been called for a fight in the coalition and not because of the opposition problem, and that all of this is now a huge problem for the state of Serbia and its citizens. Furthermore, in 2008, the Fund's own funds were 7,000,000 dinars, 2,780,000,000 dinars, totalling 9,780,000,000, and the funding foreseen by law, again one and a half percent of the gross social product was to go to the Development Fund, for 2008, there were 41,100,000 dinars. For 2009, the Fund's own funds of 11,000,000, budgets 3,100,000, totalled at the time Mr. Buha wrote these are 14,100,000, and the funds foreseen by law, again one and a half percent of gross domestic products, are almost 45,000,000,000 dinars. Therefore, these data clearly show that the Development Fund has been invested several times less than is foreseen by the provisions of the law, so we would like to hear why this was the case, given that the Development Fund has had and will play a very important role in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, namely in employment policy and in economic development, in the final pool. Next, Article 61. The privatisation law provides that 50% of the assets from the sale of the company's capital will be allocated to finance, restructuring and fostering economic development. The national strategy for economic development from 2006 to 2012 planned huge funds for accelerated economic development, an increase in gross social product with a high share of real economy. Funds for accelerated economic development will be provided from the following sources: budgets, funds from the Development Fund, privatisation revenues, bank funds, ino-credits, credit funds from international financial institutions, donations and other sources. At that time, the growth of the economy, in that period, was planned in the range of 6.5 to 12%, which represents the rates that fall to the very top of the world economy. From the above data, as Mr Buha finds, there is a clear deviation from the legal provisions. Acting on instructions, apparently, some foreign centres of power, people who sign monetary and credit, or financial power in Serbia, have been knowingly violating legal provisions. The funds they had to place in the Development Fund were directed to the budget, PIO funds and health insurance, so public spending. These measures safeguard social peace, and that is what many economic experts have already talked about, not to name them here, but one of those who converts, conditionally speaking, to people facing the Western economic way of thinking is Professor Rabbit. What it is is its finding, which we must agree on, regardless of which school the professor of the Faculty of Philosophy was determined for, is that, in fact, no moment has been dealt with by the state of Serbia; that public spending has grown year after year; that the economy has not stood on its feet, and that the trend that the economy in Serbia will be revived; that, as far as small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, there is no person in Serbia who does not know what the fate of entrepreneurship is in Serbia and that, in fact, the only trend in buying votes ahead of the elections is the achievement of cheap political points. And, of course, you have a massive state apparatus, because in Serbia the only thing that works is that it regularly generates revenue, in the sense that you regularly earn your monthly earnings, are state and paramedical. If we continue to paint, only for comparisons, industrial production is a continuous decline, and the reasons are numerous: privatisation, drastic decline in labour productivity, decline in competitiveness, investment in production, lack of structural reforms, poor adaptability of the economic sector. For example, industrial production in 2007 is 50% of industrial production, for example, in 1990. Industrial production in 2008 corresponds to production from 1968. In the first quarter of 2009, industrial production decreased by 25% compared to the average of 2008. If this volume of production remained from the first quarter of 2009 until the end, this gross product of industrial production would correspond to that of industrial production from 1962. Then, all the experts in this area speak of the continuation of the decline in industrial production, and this volume brings us back to the one from the 1950 ’ s! I would like to remind you of the statement by the governor of NBS Mr Jelasic, namely his author's article (the title is "Can No More Live From Credit", written on 1 February 2009 and published in a daily newspaper. He then wrote: "In order to finance the current payment deficit of the planned 16.1% of gross domestic product, Serbia needs foreign direct investment of 1.7 billion euros in 2009, then an additional net debt of 3.9 billion euros. Since Serbia makes 3.6 billion euros in debt in 2009, in order to finance our excessive spending, it requires loans of 7.5 billion euros." Behind this is the governor of the NBS. What we were trying to get through regularly, as official data, would be interesting, I was trying to explore by wandering the NBS website, since I know that all ino-payments have to go through the NBS accounts, which are donations, which, by which projects, we've been doing since 2000. It's a frantic analysis, and I'll have plenty of freedom to present it to you in the discussion in detail. It therefore speaks of the nature of the projects, how certain projects are implemented, and what they bring to the institution or part of society in the final assembly, which is a significant asset that came in support of democratic authorities after 2000 by the world's most developed countries. It would also be important to say that the governor of the NBS has provided us with an analysis of what the final state has done to make use of these huge assets in the best possible way in terms of economic growth, the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises. I try to speak the most acceptable dictionaries and avoid professional expressions because of the public in Serbia. Let's say that he worked to increase the number of jobs and climate creation, in the sense that finally those who are highly educated or in any way educated can find an adequate job in Serbia, that no child with an average of 9.6 in medical school has to graduate from medical school in order to run away from this country. So before that example, we should all bow our heads, and in the first place, those who are owned to solve this sort of thing. That example refutes every possible argument. It's about young people who've done their best and have nothing left. They usually come from families that do end up with ends. They did their best and eventually have nothing from the state of Serbia or even hope. What is significant here, Mr. Buha made an effort to obtain this information, the data on privatisation revenues best speak of the scale of the failure of privatisation. In the privatisation process, 1900 companies were sold through the Privatisation Agency. The following privatisation funds have been realised: two and a half million euros in capital value, a million and a half euros in the investment programme, 320,000,000 euros for the social programme. What is the conclusion, and is the question – where did all these funds go and do you even know where the funds went from the privatisation funds and did all these funds go where the law predicted? That's very important. If we're a society that's trying to follow legal regulations, that respects procedure, then this is the most important question. The impression, based on all of this, is that instead of being the backbone of economic development, not the backbones, but the very important factor, the Development Fund was put aside. This is the country's attitude towards Serbia's economic development. That's our impression, that's our belief. I assume you have other information that can convince us otherwise. We'll accept every piece of information that's been established. Also, I'll continue, it's significant, and I'll say at least most of it, if not all, that paints the economic and social climate, and yet according to what the governor of the NBS says can't live on just a loan anymore. These are the latest data related to the agreement with the International Monetary Fund, which was notified to the Serbian government on 26 March 2009, after ten days of secret negotiations, and we were mostly informed on the basis of the media... So they concluded a loan agreement of about three billion euros. According to the NBS Governor, the agreement runs until April 2011. In the first two years, Serbia will receive about 2.2 billion euros. What is interesting is that the first part of this sum will be approved around May 15th this year, provided that the IMF board of directors approves the measures that the Serbian government will implement on the basis of the IMF's request. The second part will be approved in 2010. The governor said interest on this loan will range from 1.47% to 3.47%. So, before the conclusion of this agreement with the International Monetary Fund... And, Master Mirovic, who deals with this problem, I think it will be his area of doctoral dissertation, here presents some data that are a significant picture of the economic situation in Serbia. In January 2009, the Serbian government concluded another agreement with the IMF. Just to remind you, Serbia then countered itself for about 400,000 euros. The sum was not used until March of this year and the completion of new negotiations with the IMF, although Serbia was paying interest on the loan as well. If all these facts are taken into account, we come to the conclusion that in March of this year Serbia owed about 3 billion euros, although it did not use the euro of previous loans of 400,000 euros. It is incomprehensible that the Serbian government is carrying out this way, it is our belief, pointless economic policy at the moment the country is on the verge of economic collapse. For example, 4.5 billion euros in loans from foreign banks and banks in Serbia are due in 2009 alone. It is a figure that exceeds 50% of the total expenditure in Serbia's 2009 budget. We know there's a rebalancing going on, but according to the Budget Law, that's the way it is. According to official NBS data delivered to the National Assembly, the total number of economic operators whose accounts in the blockade on February 24th amounted to about 57,000. The number of registered employees is around 152,000 and the total amount of the blockade of nearly 215,000,000,000 dinars, according to 2.3 billion euros according to the official NBS course on 7 April 2009. But what's more interesting to the public of Serbia is what the IMF specifically requires of Serbia in such a difficult economic situation. He demands that the Serbian budget deficit be less than two billion euros, demands that the Serbian budget deficit be around 967,000 euros or below 3% of Serbia's gross domestic product, you will correct us unless this data is relevant. So about 967.000,000 euros of the allowed Serbian deficit will obviously be compensated from the funds received by the sale of large Serbian enterprises, we assume, loans from the IMF or other Western creditors linked to this prestigious international financial institution. In this context, IMF representative Albert Jaeger told "The Voice of America" to remind you that the IMF loan will also be used to pay off foreign debt that Serbia will face in 2009 and 2010. Serbian Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic said the 3% deficit will be financed from unexpensed privatisation revenues, of around 550,000 euros in the expected World Bank loan, of about $300,000 in IPA funds, with around 100,000 euros, and the rest will be secured by commercial borrowing in the country and abroad. The remainder of over a billion euros, as short of Serbia's 2009 budget based on this very clear bill, must be collected from citizens of Serbia, according to IMF demands. In this context, the question arises why did the IMF not give Serbia in 2009 a loan that would fully cover the deficit of around two billion euros, or why does the IMF so insist on Serbia's deficit being below 3% of gross domestic product, when this is an impossible condition even for much more developed countries in the financial crisis situation? We need to understand that this set of economic laws will mitigate the effects of the global financial crisis. So these issues are particularly interesting, given that the IMF applies completely different conditions for Serbia, let's say, from those applied to the United States. According to US announcements, the planned 2009 budget deficit will be the largest in history and will be around 13% of gross domestic product, and we are asked to have 3%. Similarly, the IMF's double standards are obvious when it compares Serbia with rich EU countries. For example, the budget deficit of over 3% of gross domestic products has France, Spain, Ireland and the UK. However, the European Commission has left the deadline until 2012 and 2013 for bringing deficits to below 3%. So they're tolerated by the financial crisis by a much higher percentage of the deficit, and we're not. We'd really like to get an answer to the question why. I suppose you do know the details of the negotiations with the IMF and that you have some other information, because this is simply a dilemma that we can't resolve, and it's very important. So what the IMF, I don't know if I'm very clear, is asking Serbia to lower its budget deficit to below 3% of gross domestic product in a few weeks, which means radical cuts and which means a really big problem. We would really like to know how it got into those negotiations and what the counterargument was. You need to fire a huge number of people, among other things. That's just an additional problem. On this basis, we can believe that the IMF and those who are putting money into this financial institution, and definitely affecting many countries, indeed have a desire to create a terrible social and economic crisis in Serbia in some way. We're waiting for an argument that will convince us, but based on all of this and the data that was available to us, we can only conclude this. So that the IMF applies unrealistic criteria to Serbia is particularly recognised by Serbian Finance Minister. So she says -- you should look at how many deficits other countries generate, from a minimum of 3%, mostly 6 - 7%, to almost 15%. It's almost realistic for all the countries that are concerned, the parallel practices, because this crisis is unremembered after the great crisis of 1929. Why the IMF (we can still, of course, explain) is doing this can only be understood when the measures of the Serbian government are analysed brought precisely at the request of the IMF. First, freezing wages and pensions in practice will lead to their decline due to the inflation rate. And the nominal value of all our receipts has fallen, regardless of what is trying to target the course of the euro, thus inflation, in a way that we see that it is heavily controlled – one day there is no participation in the internal banking sector and you see the savagery of the euro, for example. Second, a reduction in the spending on municipalities in Serbia worth about 160,000,000 euros will lead to even greater social problems in Serbia's poorest municipalities. So much for balanced regional development or reducing these differences in regional development that depend on Serbia's budget. We have had the opportunity to follow the media truly justifiable protest of all the first people of these municipalities whose transfers have been significantly reduced, because they face problems they will not be able to solve without having terrible economic and social problems. So what you saw at the time is, and specifically, most logically possible, the question -- yes, we're going to reduce the number of employees, just tell us how financially we can send out all the litigation they're going to get against local administrations? It's really one of the very important problems. It's easy to say – cut down, and when it's specifically applied... I don't know if you've ever felt in your life what it means to be at work (I am) or to be out of work with a political decision. I guess most of them are. It's the most terrible feeling in the world, especially when you're in a situation where you can't achieve it, that you don't first realize yourself as a person who's capable of making a living with her work, and so on. Now I'm talking about a situation where even a few of them are going to lose their income. It could also be one of the projections. So, what should also be another one of the elaborates of what the IMF really requires of Serbia and what the Fund's relationship to Serbia... (President: National MPs, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used, both as an authorised representative and for discussion in principle. ) If you please, I would just like one more sentence to get into the sense of this previous exposure. (President: But one sentence, please.) Just one sentence. Thank you. All of these data, and there are, believe me, really so many, should answer us whether there is a strategy, whether there is a dialogue on how the crisis should be overcome and, first of all, the financial structure that needs to satisfy economic and social security, and in the context of the laws that are on the agenda, if I can just narrow it down to this one sentence. We would really appreciate it if we could get concrete information on that subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17361	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) If not, I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Chambers and the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Insurance and Financing of Foreign Trade Fund. We move to a joint principle search of the 22-25th agenda – PROPOSALS ON THE POLAND BUSINESS; STANDARDISATION; TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PRODUCTS AND ASSESSMENTS OF USPUBLISHMENTS; AND TOURISM A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 22, 23, 24 and 25, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours in principle, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Send group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so, for a debate in the joint search at points 22, 23, 24 and 25. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenković, MP Milutin Jeličić, MP of the National Assembly of the NS; MP Zoran Kasalović MP of the SPS-JS, MP Mico Rogovic MP for Serbia, MP Arsen Đuric, MP for the DSS, MP for Parliament Milan Djokić, G17 Plus, MP for Parliament Marina Ragus MP for the SRS. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the proposal for a law on foreign trade, a draft legislation on standardisation, a draft law on technical requirements for products and an assessment of compliance and a proposal for a law on tourism. Since the National Assembly has been informed that proposings are authorised, i.e. on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for these agenda points, Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to enter the National Assembly Hall and ask if Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister of Economy and Regional Development wants a word, since according to the Rules of Procedure, this is the moment when you can address it? Yeah. ) I ask you to press the MP's unit in front of you the key to report for the word, so I can give you my word, Mr Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17362	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to explain the proposals of four laws that are important for Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation, but are in itself important to the areas they regulate. Before I begin to explain these four laws, which are the proposal for a law on foreign trade, a bill on standardisation, a bill on technical requirements for products and an assessment of compliance and a proposal for a law on tourism, I would like to say why membership in the World Trade Organisation is important for Serbia. First, membership in the World Trade Organisation is important because of EU accession. You cannot be an EU member unless you have previously become a member of the World Trade Organisation. In addition, membership in the World Trade Organisation allows preferential entry into the market of 153 countries, with the treatment of the most privileged nations, i.e. with appropriate preferences in external trade. It also ensures the stability of the country's conditions, which cannot be subsequently changed by changing political parties in power, i.e. once it becomes a member of the World Trade Organisation, stability, predictability in the adoption of appropriate legal acts and economic development is established. Also, a member of the World Trade Organisation enjoys protection against illegal economic measures by other countries, i.e. there is a special system of dispute resolution in the World Trade Organisation. And finally, when you're in the World Trade Organisation, you automatically jump the country's investment rating and foreign investors see you as a more stable country. Serbia began negotiations with the World Trade Organisation on February 15th 2005. Six multilateral negotiations have been held so far. As far as multilateral negotiations are concerned, the track is now near the end. After the adoption of the relevant laws, and even 54 regulations in Serbia should be adapted to the standards of the World Trade Organisation, at the same time the EU, where standards are identical in order to become a member... When all these laws are passed, the largest number is currently in the Serbian Parliament, the government has adopted them, then bilateral negotiations are accelerated. The World Trade Organisation negotiates on two tracks: multilateral and bilateral. For multilateral negotiations, I have already said, the most important thing is to comply with the legislation of the EU and the standards of the World Trade Organisation, and as far as bilateral negotiations are concerned, there is always some country that has its own proposals, requirements in foreign trade, and then there are solutions that are compromiseable and favourable for all countries. Serbia has completed negotiations with Switzerland and Norway so far. Of course, we have also completed negotiations with the EU, given that we have signed an EU accession agreement, but negotiations have remained with other non-EU countries, such as Japan, Ukraine, the US and Brazil. These negotiations are parallel to multilateral negotiations. So, I just wanted to say briefly that there is a process of negotiations with the World Trade Organisation. If all the laws proposed in the Assembly are adopted during this year, it is realistic that Serbia can become a member of the World Trade Organisation in the first half of next year. Unfortunately, we had one set of election cycles, so some laws that were previously prepared did not come to the Assembly, or the Assembly did not adopt them, and in that sense the deadline for Serbia's membership in the World Trade Organisation was constantly moving. However, I believe that this assembly will work effectively, that the government will also work effectively, send laws to the Assembly and that we will adopt all these laws during this year. I point out once again, it's 54 laws. The largest number is already in the assembly procedure, and there are eight laws at this session, and there are laws that Minister Dulic has set out in the area of environmental protection. As for concrete laws, first of all, the law on technical requirements for products and the assessment of conformity – you can see for yourself that it has a one-off name, however, this law is crucial for the establishment of so-called so-called law. the internal market according to EU standards. In fact, this law lays down technical rules for each individual product that a country produces and products must be technically in line with the World Trade Organisation and EU standards so that they can be exported, or traffic in those countries. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of this law are to comply with the rules of the Agreement on Technical Barriers in Trade of the World Trade Organisation, as well as compliance with EU technical legislation. We currently have the current Technical Requirements Act from the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which was adopted in 2005, however, is not applicable in Serbia's legal system, and there are some other essential shortcomings. What is the subject of this law? First of all, the regulation of technical requirements for products, the adoption of technical regulations, the assessment of the conformity of the product with the prescribed technical requirements, the obligations of the supplier of products and the owner of the products to be used, the validity of foreign conformity documents and the signs of conformity, the notification of technical regulations and procedures in the assessment of compliance and the supervision of the implementation of this law. This law applies to all products other than those for which technical requirements are governed by specific laws and regulations adopted under those specific laws. What exactly is a technical regulation? The technical regulation shall be any regulation governing at least one of the following elements for each product or product group: conformity assessment procedures, technical requirements, requirements for product safety, regular and extraordinary product checks, documents accompanying the product, sign and method of product labelling, requirements to be met by the conformity assessment body, packaging and marking requirements. In other words, these are regulations that regulate everything that is related to the life of any product in any area, in any country that wants to be an EU member. What are technical regulations for? The main reason is to protect the safety, life and health of people, because it is technically a regulation that guarantees the quality of the product, guarantees that it is safe for the life and health of people, but technical regulations are also adopted to protect animals and plants, protect the environment, protect consumers and other users, protect property. As regards the conformity assessment procedure, according to this law, that procedure is carried out by the manufacturer, appointed bodies for the assessment of compliance. These are various laboratories, certification bodies, control organisations and authorities of the state administration that are laid down by law. The general obligation of the manufacturer resulting from this law is to place the product on the market, or to be delivered on the market only if it is in conformity with these prescribed technical laws and if that compliance is carried out in a legitimate manner. There is also inspection to check whether the products are manufactured in accordance with the legal technical regulations. The inspection shall be carried out by the competent departments through inspectors, depending on the type of product and activity each ministry carries out. The law comes into force eight days after publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and after that we have a legal basis for sublegal acts, technical regulations that will bring not only the Ministry of Economy but other competent ministries. Essentially, we have a period to transpose European directives and adopt national technical regulations. I must say that a thousand sectoral directives are expected to be adopted for different products, which the ministries will work for, for all possible products, from machines, low voltage equipment, electromagnetic compatibility, for elevators, personal protective equipment, measuring instruments, wood, textiles, shoes, literally for all products. This is something people at the ministry think is boring matter, but without this, it cannot be produced and lived, because without technical regulations, no product can cross the border, be exported to the EU. As a result, this law is much more important than it seems, and much work seems to require, especially in the process of applying the directive. Essentially, Serbia becomes an EU member when it meets many EU standards, but this is a basic precondition -- technical regulations for each individual product in all areas. That's why this process isn't short at all. The second law is the bill on standardisation. I will tell you something that surprised me too – unlike the former Yugoslavia, where standards were mandatory and technical regulations voluntary, EU legislation is completely reversed. In other words, standards are not mandatory, and technical regulations are what is mandatory. This standardisation law adapts to the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the EU, which introduces the optionalness of standards, i.e. some standards can be adopted, but this is no longer a legal obligation. This goes into effect in the middle of this year. Since the middle of this year, the standards we've become used to so far, according to our Standardization Act, will no longer be the obligation of economic operators, but technical regulations will. This law also regulates standardisation objectives, as the national standardisation body is active (it is the standardisation institute) and defines to whom it applies. Also, these legislation solutions allow: to continue to take international and European standards into a system of Serbian standards; to participate in the creation of standardisation policy and work of standardisation institutes; better information on standardisation, as well as the sale of international, European and other developed countries. These are some basics of the standardisation law. The third in a series of laws is the law on foreign trade. It is also in line with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, but before I bring out the basic paper in this law in relation to the previous ones, I will inform you of some of the latest developments in the area of foreign trade in Serbia, as a result of the global crisis and the measures of the government that we have taken to resolve them. As you know, one of the consequences of less global credit is that demand for products has also fallen and so is demand for products from Serbia. Serbia achieved 27% lower exports in the first two months of this year compared to the same period last year, while imports were about 30% lower. It is about the level of foreign trade trade in the first two months at the level of 2007. We will definitely have significantly lower exports, but even more imports, in this year compared to the previous ones. It is likely that the new balance will be at the level achieved in 2007. Although exports are 27% lower, due to a major decline in imports, the external trade deficit, I would say, has been forced to decrease by 30%. What measures have we taken so far, and what measures will we take to boost exports in such difficult conditions? First, these are financial measures, secondly, free trade agreements that we have concluded with some non-EU countries. As far as financial measures are concerned, the government launched an export funding programme, 162,000,000,000 dinars is the government's stimulating package for this purpose. From now on, 20,000,000 dinars have been realised in the first month and a half, so our estimate is that 162,000,000,000 dinars will be enough by the end of the year. Yesterday, we had a meeting with Serbia's largest exporters, with the largest banks, the most active banks at the moment on the Serbian market. We have come to the conclusion that there is a need to double the amount of loans granted to exporters and that there is room to lower the interest rate on bank loans from May of. Why is there this space? For two reasons: first, the European Central Bank's reference interest rate fell, federal reserves dropped, and the British central bank dropped. Now that reference rate is between 1.25 and 1.5% on the annual level. It's the lowest, historical level of interest rates. With us, however, that interest rate has not fallen so far. It's really about time she went down. I expect each other's banks to take that interest by May. It is realistic to expect that the interest rate, which is due today for liquidity loans of 5.5%, is 4% from next month. Also, dinar loans will be introduced, given that Serbia's central bank has lowered the reference dinar interest rate and we expect the NBS interest rate to continue to fall in the coming period. In this regard, it is very important that those who export, who have export contracts, are provided with twice as much funds as they could count on so far. As for the legislation, apart from this law on foreign trade, I think it is very important that the government continued to conclude the free trade agreement, because our strategy is next – we do not know when the EU will be ready to accept Serbia into its membership, given that it is now facing its own problems due to the global financial crisis. However, Serbia's strategy should be that, for its own sake, it introduces European standards, for the sake of Serbian citizens, while at the same time concluding non-tariff export contracts with as many countries as possible. Serbia is currently the only country in Europe that has a free trade agreement with the EU and the former Yugoslav countries, or Cefta, at the same time, including other countries such as Moldova and Albania. We concluded and signed a free trade agreement with Belarus two weeks ago, which is immediately applied. We also negotiated a free trade agreement with Turkey; it is asymmetric, will be applied under the current agreement with the Turkish government from January 1st next year. However, the Serbian government's initiative is to start applying immediately after the signing (we plan to sign it by the middle of this year) because it allows for immediate duty-free exports of Serbian goods to the Turkish market, while imports from Turkey to Serbia will be gradually liberalised over the next six years. Full liberalisation will be achieved in 2016 on our side towards Turkey, and they will give us duty-free exports immediately. The agreement looks like an SAA with the EU, i.e. the mechanism is the same: we have immediate duty-free exports, and we are reducing the gradual customs rates, leaving more customs rates for those sensitive products Serbia wants to protect. Also, in May, we will have a mixed committee and we are going to negotiate free trade with Iran. Iran is a major market, as is Turkey. In fact, we want Cyprus to be a banking platform in its own time, before it became an EU member, for Serbia to be a low-cost production platform for exporting to third markets, as no other country in Europe has now completed this many free trade contracts. We are not only doing this for the sake of Serbian producers, who are certainly making it possible to export more to foreign markets, but in this way we want to attract many more foreign investors who would produce not only for the needs of the Serbian market, but above all for exports. It is the only way that Serbia significantly increases its exports in the medium term. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with the level of exports from Serbia. When we launched the government's package of measures to subsidise consumer loans, we saw that only about 10m euros of these consumer loans were realised, mostly for "full", and much less for some other products. We need to help make our economy more efficient and have more quality goods that can be used on the domestic market and exported. As far as the foreign trade law itself is concerned, the fundamental changes are a more precise definition of the individual categories that have been taken over from the World Trade Organisation in order to continue the accession process. Some new procedures are also being introduced, which is the automatic issue of import licences. Also, a rationalisation of the text and the harmonisation of the law with the new customs and foreign currency law has been carried out. In addition, this law is complemented by the creation of a legal basis for the establishment of an Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion. It still exists today, so it won't be the establishment of a new body, but right now it's the government's service. As an independent SIEPA agency, it will have a far greater scope of action and opportunity to help both our exporters and foreign investors in Serbia. The fourth, last law I want to present to you is a proposal for a tourism law. Tourism has long been an neglected area. I must tell you that in 2004, Serbia had only $300,000 in tourism revenue. Last year, Serbia earned close to a billion dollars in tourism revenues. I think that's good progress for the past few years. Why? Because Serbia, as you know, has no sea, but a billion dollars made in a country with eight million inhabitants, where the awareness of tourism development is not yet sufficiently developed, is a good shift, which we cannot and will not be satisfied with. The growth of tourism revenues last year was 9% compared to the previous year. Serbia made a total of 7,334,000 overnight stays last year, of which 1,398,000 were foreign tourists. The average length of tourist stay in Serbia is relatively short and is only 3.24 days. So, the average tourist, including domestic and foreign, stays only 3.2 days in a place, which is something that should be improved in the next period. As far as tourists from abroad are concerned, they are mostly from the former Yugoslav republics, and then from Italy and Germany, at 40,000 each. I already said, in total last year, we had 66,000 tourists from abroad who had 1,398,000 overnight stays. What are the destinations visited by foreign tourists? It's convincing in the first place in Belgrade. Belgrade has the biggest revenues from tourism and that is one big question for everyone else. Impaired opinion that natural beauty, hospitality also means the possibility of greater revenues from tourism is completely wrong. Greater revenues from tourism are only realised if there is much to be done. So, natural beauty without good organisation, without good marketing, without good work means nothing in tourism. That showed our experience. I'll give you an example. Last year, Belgrade had 672,000 foreign tourists. Second place is Vrnjačka Banja – 122,000 foreign tourists, probably mostly people from the former Yugoslav republics. The third place was Zlatibor with 103,854, on the fourth Novi Sad with 100,209 foreign tourists and on the fifth Kopalnik – 90,499, most of them were tourists from the former Yugoslav republics. But you can see for yourself that Belgrade has almost seven times as many foreign tourists as any tourist destination in Serbia. Serbia's most convincing income generator is currently the city of Belgrade, which means that no potential for other places has been used up close. If you look at the results by the spas, you have only four bathrooms that can be praised in Serbia with a larger number of guests: in the first place Vrnjačka Banja with 122,000 guests, second place Sokobanja with 66,000 guests, on the third Niška Banja – 26.000 and on the fourth Banja Koviljača – 22,400 guests. Everyone else has quite a small number of guests compared to these spas. I have to admit that these things won't change quickly unless consciousness changes in our society. With us spas are viewed as a place reserved for vacations only for pensioners, for rehabilitating the sick. It is not possible to see people's attractions coming to the spa because of recreational tourism. When it is proposed to enable the partnership of the private and public sector, where private investors would invest in the modernisation of these spas, in the construction of a modern swimming pool, hotels that are modern, and in some way separate health tourism from recreational tourism, then you find ourselves in our society on resistance. There's a PIO fund, there's a bunch of organizations, and then there's a stand-in. I'm telling you, a spa based on natural resources and beauty can't do more than what they have right now. Without serious investment in the modernisation of the spa, the spa will unload and cannot get close to others. Of course, it's my ministry and government's task to change some stereotypes in this area. I hope that soon we'll have at least the first spa to use investment and look more modern, because it's hard to explain to people that it's not enough that you just have a natural source and that you have a beautiful nature. It really is a prerequisite, but it's not enough to achieve greater results. If Serbia wants to progress faster in the development of tourism, this law can help, but it is the people on the ground who, together with the government, must help to make some of these solutions that the law offers in practice and implement. As far as the provisions of the law are concerned, it covers planning and development of tourism, tourism organisation for tourism promotion, detailed regulation of the work of tourist agencies, catering activities, nautical work, other services in tourism; it also regulates the issue of taxis, fees and penals in tourism and introduces a register of tourist organisations. The newspaper of this law, unlike the previous one, is that it has one clear concept of all the important categories in tourism. The important thing about this law is that it predicts the planning and development of tourism. Unless it's planned in tourism, if we base ourselves on natural beauty, there's no big income. Therefore, only with integrated planning, the realisation of the tourism development strategy, the development of master plans that are then realised in practice can there be better results and higher revenues from tourism. The paper in this law is also a strategic master plan, which is the basis for creating spatial and urban plans in priority tourist destinations and tourist spaces. Of course everyone thinks about its environment that it is the most attractive in terms of tourism, however, the Ministry of Economy has engaged in previous years consultants from the most developed tourist countries and they have estimated that in Serbia there are ten tourist destinations where they can make the revenues from tourism more serious. Of course, I don't want to name it all, maybe I don't know it by heart. Except for Belgrade and the New USA who have a great chance at the so-called "Siti brake" tourism, which has mostly been used so far, has a chance in mountain tourism of Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Stara Planina, Tara, Goli, Beljanica, or Kučevska Mountains in eastern Serbia. These are destinations that are objectively defined as some that can bring more. However, the potentials are also in the Danube, both in the upper and lower Danube. Our Ministry has done both master plans, and the efficiency of local self-government will depend on the speed of realization. As for others, the most attractive Palić is in Vojvodina, then Fruska Gora, next to the upper Podunavlje. So these are three destinations in Vojvodina itself. Of course, there are certain destinations at the place, but the national priority will be those I spoke about and what the government has already made master plans for. It is therefore important to plan the development of tourism. As far as jobs of particular importance for tourism development are concerned, these jobs and the prescribed powers for the establishment of a national tourism corporation, as an institution that should be implemented in the work of master plans done. This is a solution that we have taken over from some other countries that have had success in developing tourism and increasing foreign incomes from tourism. Also, this law regulates the work of tourism organisations to promote tourism. There is a Tourist Organisation of Serbia, AP Vojvodina, as well as tourist organisations of local units, local self-government. However, the news is that we have reduced the number of members of the Serbian Tourist Organisation Management Board and that is something that is being done to rationalise. As for the registration of tourists, it will no longer be done by the Ministry of Economy, or the tourism sector, but will be done by the Agency for Business Registers, given that it has a far better database and can do these jobs more effectively. This law defines two types of tourist agencies: those that organise travel, as well as intermediaries in the sale of tourist trips. What are the organizers? The organizers are the ones who come up with an arrangement, and the middlemen are the ones who sell it. Currently, according to current law, there are a large number of tourism agencies in Serbia, 700 tourist agencies. It is clear that some of them do not do the job in a good way. As a result, the law envisioned licensing for tourist agencies, which are issued for a period of three years. The license is actually issued by an institution that keeps records, it's a register of tourism. It is also an obligation that every agency must have liability insurance. What does that mean? If a tourist group is left in a foreign country or anywhere because of someone who misses, then the insurance company costs the return of that group from abroad, the purchase of buses, some nights that were not scheduled. The insurance obligation has now been introduced to protect tourists from some unpleasant situations and the cost of insurance falls on the back of a tourist agency. So, insurance is carried out in advance, first it is paid by an insurance company, but ultimately it is charged by the tourist agency itself. As for the other provisions, we will have the opportunity to discuss them during the debate. I'd like to point out that the law involves three kinds of different fees. The residence tax remains as a basic fee, which is 80% the income of local self-government and paid by the tourists themselves, however, the newspaper is that an extended circle of persons who are exempt from payment of residence tax and, also, that local self-government can extend their decision to the circle of the person who exempts from paying this fee and to charge, in addition to the householders, perform and legal persons through which accommodation services are provided (i.e. in the case of natural persons who are the depositors). One newspaper is being introduced, it's a tourist fee. So far, only tourists have paid residence fees, and now tourist fees are being introduced. It is paid by hotelers, caterers and all those who have some business in a tourist destination, which is a protected natural or cultural goods of exceptional importance, which means that when it comes to Lepenski Vir, Gamzigrad, Zlatibor and some other destinations will not only be those who pay the tourist tax, but also hotel owners, restaurant owners, those who organize fun life will pay tourist fees. Forty percent of the funds achieved from the tourist compensation of a business operator, so these companies, go to whoever manages protected natural or cultural goods, which means, in the case of the Syrogogyna, Sirogyna goes 40%, ethno-park, 40% remains local self-government, and 20% Serbia's budget. So in the case of protected natural or cultural destinations, whoever manages that destination gets 40% of what is paid, 40% of local self-government, 20% of the Republic. Another newspaper is being introduced – the government will, based on this law, establish zones, locations and categories of facilities in holiday resorts and tourist resorts in priority tourist destinations. In fact, we are witnessing that today in some very attractive places there are ruins from hotels that the current owners do not intend to renovate, raise the category, and that they have essentially taken up some places; often some of these hotels are bought at relatively low prices. This law introduces a twom-euro payment option for each hotel owner located on an attractive destination if it is not categorized within two years in accordance with an appropriate sublaw. What does that mean exactly? If the hotel "Yugoslavija" remains a billboard, so it is not a hotel, for the next two years, they will have to pay 2m euros each year, until they think they should start renovating it. If the Hotel Lepenski Vir, also at an exceptional location in the lower Podunavlje, remains in this state, without renovation, will have to pay two million. It's rent. It's not our idea to charge for it. Our idea is to encourage hotel owners to invest money and renovate the hotel, if they can, and if they can't sell it and to do so by the one who can. In other words, these national, priority locations will not be allowed to include objects that do not correspond to the quality of the tourist service to be provided at such locations. This introduces a twom-euro pen, but the adjustment deadline is two years. In two years it's enough time for the current owners or to sell hotels to those who can invest or invest and modernise them themselves and get the right category. Of course, there will be no five-star hotel on Gjerdap, but it should be a hotel of a far larger category - with four stars, while in some other locations that are touristic attractive, it will have to reach an appropriate standard. Serbia does not have enough good hotels and therefore cannot expect more revenue from tourism, if this is the way we encourage hotel modernisation. Of course, this law also significantly tightens the procedure for the categorisation of hotels and sanctions that are carried out unless categorisation is done in a prescribed manner. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that some very good and useful amendments have come from you MPs. As far as the tourism law is concerned, we have accepted eight amendments from different parliamentary groups, DS, DSS, SNS and SPS, so all those we considered to be of quality. They've been accepted by the government and will be incorporated into this law. The MPs have proposed a whole new head that regulates hunting tourism, which we are pleased to accept because we have failed to regulate it by this law. As far as other laws are concerned, we also did not take into account whose parliamentary groups the amendment comes from, but whether it is of quality and acceptable from the point of view of the ministry. In the hope of having a good discussion, I thank you for your attention, and I hope that we will adopt these laws when it comes to voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17363	Before, on the basis of Article 142(2), I ask if the other people who are entitled to the procedure want to do so, I inform the National Assembly that MP Zoran Ostojic is an authorised representative of the LDP Group of MPs. Does the word rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want MP Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations want to speak with abroad, MP Milos Jevtic? No, I don't. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, MP Pavel Marchok, vice president of the Committee, want a word? Yeah. The People's Messenger, Pavel Marchok, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17364	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, honourable fellow Members, the Committee on Science and Technological Development discussed two of the proposed laws, the standardisation law and the technical requirements law on products and the assessment of compliance. It should be said that this standardisation law finally defines the national standardisation body, defines the adoption and publication of Serbian standards, the application of Serbian standards. It should be said that the provisions of the current Standardisation Act, as well as the previous standardisation laws, include, in addition to activities relating to the adoption of standards, chapters relating to technical regulations, the determination of technical compliance, accreditation, certification, product testing, conformity control, technical supervision, declaration, labelling and packaging of products, inspections, etc. So this law finally defines a specific area. So far, several authorities have been responsible for carrying out these activities, and this law has finally defined the only body to deal with this area. Also, the provisions of the applicable Standardisation Act have first established an organisation for standardisation of Serbia-Montenegro, established as an independent non-profit organisation outside the state administration system. Since, immediately after the adoption of the Regulation establishing the Institute of Standardisation of the SCG, there has been no education by the authorities of the Institute for Standardisation of the SCG and its enrolment in the register. The regulation on the position of individual institutions of the former SCG and the service of the Council of Ministers of Standardisation of the SCG finally changed its name to the Serbian Standardisation Institute. The establishment of the Institute for Standardisation of Serbia was carried out according to the generally accepted principles on which national standardisation bodies were organised in EU countries. The main objective of transforming the national standardisation body from the state administration authority to the institution is to create opportunities for the Institute to, when it meets other conditions set, gain full membership status in European standardisation organisations, which is one of the preconditions for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. For the same reasons, identical or very similar reconfiguration of their national standardisation organisations had to execute other countries in our environment. Given the emerging situation after the end of the state union, as well as the need to meet the requirements for membership of the Republic of Serbia in the World Trade Organisation and the EU, it has proved necessary for the Republic of Serbia, as an independent and sovereign state, to pass its standardisation law. Therefore, the needs of the Republic of Serbia to pass this law are to comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and to improve the role of standardisation in modernising the technical legislation of the Republic of Serbia. There is also a need to comply with the rules of the Agreement on Technical Barriers of the Trade Organisation and to bring the role of standardisation in RS legislation into line with the role of standardisation in EU legislation. It is also important to highlight new provisions which distinguish this law from the previous one, which is that this law more precisely regulates the attitude towards border standardisation, such as rail, aviation, river traffic, defence and the like; also, the legal position and organisation of the Institute, where some new bodies and new bodies are introduced, and primarily the use of international standards, as a basis for the creation of Serbian standards. Also, the paper is a process of adopting Serbian standards and declaring that they have been passed. One of the papers is voluntary application of standards, which so far has been mandatory. So all standards were mandatory, and this law determines volunteering in those standards, and technical regulations will deal with the provisions that are mandatory. This law regulates and assesses the conformity of products, processes and services with standards more precisely. Solutions to this law allow for a continuation of international and European standards into a Serbian standard system. It can be said that only during the implementation of the SAA is it expected to assume 80% of European standards, as an explicit commitment by the Republic of Serbia. It also enables standardisation stakeholders to participate in the creation of standardisation and in the work of the Institute with standardisation. This law allows for information in the field of standardisation, as well as sales of international, European and other developed countries. This law regulates the principles and objectives of standardisation of the Republic of Serbia, the organisation and operation of the national body for standardisation, adoption, publication and application of Serbian standards and related documents. The law applies to all standards and related documents adopted and published by the national standardisation body in the Republic of Serbia, as well as international standards and related documents of recognised international and European standardisation organisations. These laws prescribe the principles of standardisation, which are: the right to voluntary participation of all stakeholders in the adoption of Serbian standards, the consensus of stakeholders, the prevention of the prevailing of individual interests over the common interest of stakeholders. The following principle is transparency in the process of standardisation and accessibility of Serbian standards; then, mutual compliance with Serbian standards; taking into account the state of development of techniques and rules of international and European standardisation organisations and relevant international contracts. One of the principles is equal treatment of foreign products and services and of the same or similar domestic products or services, in accordance with confirmed international agreements signed by the Republic of Serbia. The objectives of standardisation are to improve the protection of life, health and safety of people, animals and plants and environmental protection; to improve the quality of products, processes and services; to identify their purpose; to define their typeing, compatibility and exchangeability; to provide a unique technical basis; to develop and improve the production and transport of products, to perform works, or to perform services through the development of internationally harmonised standards for effective use of work, materials and energy. Another goal is to improve international trade and prevent or remove unnecessary technical barriers. Finally, it should be said that the legislation requires no additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Given that the Republic of Serbia has ratified the SAA, it is necessary for the World Trade Organisation to fulfil the obligations arising from this, in particular in the part relating to voluntary application of standards and the suspension of the application of the provisions of the regulations, i.e. decisions on Yugoslav standards, which have been adopted by the date of entry into force of the Standardisation Act, which prescribe the obligation of Yugoslav standards. (President: People's Parliament, the time that is at your disposal as rapporteur has been used. I'm done. Also, this law is a material and legal basis for adopting international and European standards as preconditions for transposing EU legislation, as well as a solution to the problem of mandatory application standards, which is insisted by the World Trade Organisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17365	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, MP Milan Djokic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. Does the People's MPs, MP Zoran Shami and MP Srboljub Zivanovic, wish to speak at the meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development to discuss the draft legislation on standardisation and the draft legislation on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The application came from MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17366	The Honorable Presidency, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, adoption and application of the provisions of the Foreign Trade Law, the Bill on Standardisation and the Proposal for a Law on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consensus, which are also time-consistent, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Tourism, will provide an important prerequisite for the rapid accession of the World Trade Organisation, and we have heard of the importance of WTO membership in the opening presentation of Mr Vice-President of the Government. It will also make a significant contribution to harmonising our legislation in this area with EU legislation through the adoption of international and European standards. Most importantly, the process is not itself a goal, but is also a basis for real progress for these very important areas for the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for a law on foreign trade proposes individual solutions that define certain terms and procedures more precisely. First of all, legal assumptions are being made that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making significant contributions to improving exports and inflows through the necessary foreign investments in the Republic of Serbia, because the proposal for a law on external trade in Article 42 gives authority to the Government of Serbia to promote exports and foreign investment in the Republic of Serbia, establish an agency for foreign investment and promotion of exports, with the aim of performing professional business: to point out the comparative advantages of the Republic of Serbia in the basic target sectors; to provide professional assistance to economic operators in developing their export opportunities; to propose measures and activities to improve the image and branding of the Republic of Serbia; to present business opportunities; to assist foreign investors and others. The present moment, with the elements of the crisis, certainly best revealed a number of agencies in various areas that have not found their basis and whose existence urgently needs to be reconsidered, but the SPS-JS Parliament Club considers that this is not the reason and justification for the possible conclusion that the Agency does not need to be supported at this time. On the contrary, for the area of promotion of exports and foreign investment due to their importance, support should be given to the agency of appropriate organisational and personnel structures. In that case, we are convinced that it is possible to ensure an improvement in export potential, a better inflow of investments in the Republic of Serbia, and thus through the necessary new jobs. Important solutions, in terms of foreign trade definition, are based on so-called the territorial principle. For what? Because of their nature, individual services provided in the territory of the Republic of Serbia could not receive adequate treatment. In this regard, in Article 1(2). access is made to change the definition of external trade and is prescribed to treat such a type of business as external trade in goods and services and to carry out the business of a foreign person in the Republic of Serbia and domestic persons in another country or customs territory. That's how this inaccuracy is overcome. The possibility of introducing automatic authorisations and procedures for their issue is not provided for by current solutions, so Article 21 provides for the possibility of issuing a licence, importing or exporting or transiting certain goods, automatically, at the request of the applicant, in cases where the prescribed documentation has been submitted with the application for its issue. It's a significant paper. The proposed solutions in Articles 12 - 16 go beyond an inaccurate formulation that referred to some of the restrictions on trade. It is about the measures adopted under this law, and they are only allowed in cases where it is necessary to achieve the objectives set out in this law and explicitly prescribed by law. Stepen, size and duration of measures are proportionate to their purpose, as prescribed by Article 12. It's a bill of law. In addition to the provisions of Article 13(1) which provide that the measure introduced pursuant to this law must not result in the purpose or effect of a breach of the freedom of trade and the competitiveness of participants in a specific external trade business, the definition of the proposing shall be further determined. Of course, every serious country in the world is closely monitoring trade flows and seeking to take certain safeguards to eliminate them. This matter is regulated by Articles 29 - 39. It's a bill of law. They provide a legal basis for the implementation of anti-dumping, compensatory, over-import protection and payment balance protection measures. The procedure for applying them has been regulated by sublaws for each measure individually. The measures are introduced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the ministry, and upon completion of the process of examination conducted by the ministry, in cases of unambiguous establishment of cumulative conditions for their introduction, as envisaged for each individual measure in Articles 31, 33, 34 and 35. It's a bill of law. The proposed solutions are rational, ensure effective removal of potential trade disturbances and comply with relevant World Trade Organisation agreements. As regards the provisions of the Standardisation Act, it could be said that they may not be more significant than the current solutions in the current law, but I do consider it necessary to mention several important, good newspapers such as, above all, the possibility that the Government of the Republic should make its decision (as provided for in Article 6). The bill) sets up Serbia's standardisation institute as a national standardisation body, with it now being an institution (so no longer a state administration body), which is experience from other countries in the region with the same strategic goals. This will create assumptions that the Institute will receive full membership status in European standardisation organisations in the coming period. Then, as a basis for adopting Serbian standards, international standards and related documents are generally used, giving priority to international standards compared to regional standards as a basis for adopting national standards. Serbian standards and related documents shall be marked by a abbreviations starting with the SRPS, in accordance with the rules of the institute, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 16(1). The bill now publishes Serbian standards in printed but electronic form. As has already been said, a solution has been proposed in Article 17 where the application of Serbian standards and related documents is voluntary, and only mandatory application is in case the technical regulation exclusively calls for a Serbian standard. Of course, the current regulation in the area of the draft legislation on technical requirements for products and the assessment of compliance established at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is not adequate for achieving the objectives of the Republic of Serbia and it is certain that the proposed provisions of the new law will ensure that the market is regulated, one of the basic conditions of EU accession, in a way that only products which are in conformity with clearly and precisely prescribed technical requirements are placed on the market of the Republic of Serbia. This will provide a satisfactory level of protection of human life and health, protection of the environment, animals and plants, as well as property, and therefore, without the ambition to discuss in principle a more detailed explanation of the proposed provisions, I consider it necessary and good. The draft tourism law enters the assembly procedure for the third time, with proposals for solutions that have been the subject of discussion in the professional public for some time, which has certainly produced that this bill, with certain existing solutions which have been made in practice as good, has also proposed several new solutions, respecting the fact that tourism does not know the limits, that it is necessary to use our experiences as competitive countries, but also to retain the visibility and authenticity of the wealth of new forms of tourism offer from the Republic of Serbia. Only by respecting such a concept can the significant tourism potential of the Republic of Serbia be fully placed in the role of economic development, especially in the emerging conditions of the crisis and in preparation for significantly more favourable conditions for the development of tourism in the future. As one of the principles for regulating relations in the field of tourism, the partnership relationship between the private and public sectors and civil society is highlighted in the planning, design and placement of the tourism product on the market, in Article 2(1), point 6). But when it comes to the state and its role, I think it is necessary to stress that the express exclusive business ambitions of the state at the moment may not give the best results, and that the state, through the creation of a good legal framework and the creation of ambience and preconditions, through the construction and development of modern infrastructure or general security, for example, raises the level of attractiveness to invest in the tourist offer of the Republic of Serbia and thus makes it a more attractive and desirable tourist destination. I believe that the state would give its activities in these circumstances the greatest and best incentive to develop tourism in the Republic of Serbia. The Register of Tourism is run by the Agency for Economic Registers, as prescribed in Article 111. This substance is removed from the ministry, which will make it evident that a faster and more efficient registration procedure will be provided, as it is now also in Article 42. The bill prescribes, for example, that the travel agency is registered in accordance with the law governing the registration of economic operators and this law. The bill defines more precisely the provisions concerning conditions for better quality service provision, as well as the provision of greater protection for users of tourist services. Thus, when it comes to tourist agencies, it is necessary to say that there are somewhat clearer conditions of business, because a specially organised business space is prescribed to meet technical conditions (Article 49(1)), as well as a qualified personnel structure, at least one full-time employee in the seat, and that is in accordance with European trends. Significant and interesting news is that the agency's obligation to hire a tourist companion is again proposed. In this way, it will avoid situations that we often hear about, especially during seasons, that only drivers care about tourists, which is certainly not their job, or any other unprofessional face. In addition to the introduction of a liability insurance policy, by providing in a much better way the damage caused to the passenger by failure to fulfil the obligations, i.e. by not providing the necessary accommodation, food or return of passengers, as provided for in Article 53. The bill absolutely warns unwanted and unpleasant situations and at the same time provides service users. The procedure for the declaration of tourist space is governed by Articles 14 to 16. It is important to say that an integral part of the proposal for the declaration of eligibility studies and a report on public insight carried out is the possibility of a local self-government on whose territory there is a tourist space being declared on the proposal. It should be further pointed out that it is in Article 99. The draft law significantly extends the circle of persons who are exempt from paying a residence tax, with a provision in the opinion of the 4th same member that local self-government can extend the circle of persons exempt from paying this fee, above all for students and sick persons, which will certainly act stimulatingly on target groups. But I believe that this provision should also monitor the increased activity of field inspection and work in accordance with the law, in order to curb and implement criminal measures for undeclared and all those who do not carry out their work in accordance with the law, which would certainly ensure a satisfactory inflow of income from the residence tax to the budgets of local self-government. It is also necessary to highlight the introduction of the obligation to pay for a penalty to use a priority tourist destination that will be paid by owners and users of catering facilities for accommodation of inadequate purposes, whose income will be the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget and will amount, as we heard, to two million euros. This bill has the ambition to remove certain declarative norms that have not found their foothold in practice and produced certain effects, such as, for example, congress tourism or, in the draft law in the process, hunting tourism. The idea is quite correct, but the exclusion of hunting-tourism activity from the bill certainly did not have a foothold for several reasons, and I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club, accepting the initiative and proposals of several interested entities, professional public, people from the hunting world, has proposed and supported the amendments to which Article 1. The draft law also regulates hunting and tourism activities, followed by Article 87, provides for a new Chapter VII of the Hunting and Tourism Area, which regulates new members from 87a to 87j, with the envisaged criminal provisions for non-application of the provisions governing this area. The possibilities and potentials of Serbia's hunting grounds have been proven, and all of us are close to the times when our hunting sites were one of the most attractive in Europe. In Serbia, about 100,000 hunters and about 1,000 available facilities exist, and only the Autonomous province of Vojvodina has 2,152,635 hectares of hunting surfaces and 91 hunting grounds. But hunting tourism is a particularly sensitive branch, and any failure is a huge risk of disrupting balance, causing far greater damage than benefits. Therefore, only professional and organised management with available resources can provide more significant revenues, primarily from accompanying services, both pension and out-of-board, and also create conditions for new jobs in this sector. I am pleased that the representatives of the proposings had an understanding of the argument, as well as most of the members of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, and these amendments of the SPS-JS Parliament Club have become an integral part of the Tourism Law proposal. Respecting the above-mentioned argument of the proposed legislative solutions, the SPS-JS MPs will support this set of laws in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17367	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17368	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of Parliament and fellow MPs, have arrived recently, Mr. Dinkic – the SPS representative says the state should not be engaged in entrepreneurship and tourism, you. And we agree that the state should not, and that is our main objection to this law – the establishment of a national tourism corporation, because we really think that the state needs to get out of business, especially from tourism. We know that over the past years, the state has rules and ski resorts in your direction, we know how much this has brought new tourists and revenues. In any case, we don't think there's a public debate going on about this law. You may have spoken with the association of tourist agencies, but more than a hundred tourist organizations have not been consulted during the draft of this law. We think that by adopting this law, we are deviating ourselves from the Tourism Development Strategy. This development strategy has been paid dearly and is not so bad, regardless of who worked, but we think there are good things in it, among other things, retaining, or setting up tourist regions. With this law you abolish tourist regions and organizations. We think it is not good, that this solution is not in line with European practice. Among other things, there are some other things that are detached from the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Serbia. In the light of this law, some of the reasons for its adoption are listed, but in this explanation there is a lack of what is most important – what does Serbia want to do in the field of tourism, what kind of tourist destination Serbia should become, should we become, say, like Romania from the 1980s, where everything is cheap, from drinks, women and other parties, or something much more? Your explanation, or who wrote, is a lot of postage and flat-rate claims, instead of answering these essential questions, what is the relationship between the public and the private sector, etc. It says that with the current 87,000 accommodation facilities, Serbia does not achieve even approximate business results such as those achieved by competing countries. Due to market closure, the process of restructuring and privatisation was delayed, there were no significant investments from the country and abroad, so there was no development of new forms of tourist offer. We think that there is a lack of analysis of the ownership structure of the mentioned facilities and 87,000 accommodation facilities, because it is not possible that everyone in old-fashioned condition exists in this country and the facilities and capacities that have been built and developed for the last nine years, and that is mainly done by private investors and entrepreneurs. Secondly, it is not true that only the closure of the market is the reason why our tourist offer and infrastructure are inadequate. For nine years, it has been impossible to say that there is a closed market, and for five years, the government, primarily you and your party in it, has realised the concept of tourism development that is now being implemented by your ministry called the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. For weeks, you've been showing up here with some kind of reform proposal, in which the change is mostly in the fact that all the potentials of this country, or those for which you're in charge, from the open market and private initiatives, are being transferred and pushed under the sole authority or control of the state and of your ministry. That's right when it comes to the law on the Chamber of Commerce; unfortunately, so is this law. It's kind of interesting that you, which people view as a party of liberal beliefs, especially in economic terms, are constantly favouring a concept called the ethical model, the almighty state, not only in tourism, where your jurisdiction is, but also in health care, because your colleague is making regulations and regulations that absolutely go against the private sector and for the benefit of the state. We think that everything you're doing, including this bill, is leading us to some kind of planical economy, and we don't think that's good. You say there's little productivity in tourism. It is, because if you had analyzed a little bit, you would have to admit it – it is small because the state has interfered and because the state has been the main entrepreneur before. That's why it's small productivity. Now we're going to increase productivity by strengthening state interventionism in this area. We think it's counterproductive and absolutely wrong. What does Serbia want with tourism anyway? You often talk about competitive countries in your presentation. What countries are these? In one place, use the example of Greece, Tunisia, Egypt as an excuse for the state to appear as the main player on the tourist market. But these countries are absolutely different from Serbia. They are touristic by definition, they should not become touristic. It allows them natural resources, sea, historical circumstances, heritage, so we don't think it's comparable when you say that Greece has a national tourism corporation, it has nothing to do with what we want to do here. Unfortunately, your laws often raise the question of what they want, so there was speculation, there was speculation about the chamber, someone said, not us, even from your ruling majority, that it was that some chambers that had property in good places in the cities went bankrupt, so that the property would be alienated. Following that logic, I began to think about what is hidden in this law, where that catch is when it comes to property, because it must have it. We strongly oppose the government's authority to declare areas of protected nature or tourist spaces, protected tourist spaces, such as national parks or parks protected nature. We think it must be done by law. You here say in the law that the act of declaring tourist space will continue to be passed by the government. It is prescribed that this designated tourist space is managed by a company established for the exercise of activity in the field of tourism, by a public enterprise, i.e. the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a municipality, a city or a city of Belgrade, in which the founder's capital is majority. But this law allows you to manage this declared tourist space. You say that the management of this space can be entrusted to another legal person, which is determined by a public advertising process or by the collection of offers, to which the provisions of the law governing public procurement are applied accordingly. This means that, as you, not you, but the government where you were, you declared the Park of Nature of Mokra Gora and appointed Mr. Kusturica as director, so tomorrow, by this law, you can trust a similar park to the management of the company that belongs to me and Vesni Pesic. That gives us a chance. What else does the law say? Vesna Pesic and I run the Old Mountain, you gave it to us. First you declared it, then you let us manage. It writes this way – in favour of the manager (it is now Vesna Pesic and me) the tourist space of this law established and the right to prevent the purchase of land, forest or other immovable property within the tourist space. I know we're not gonna get a chance to run the tourist space, and I know we're not gonna be able to use the right obstacle to buy, but I'm sure someone will. It's one of the mines and traps of this law, where you can say it's a private public partnership. We are in favour of a private - public partnership, but private - public partnership in a country where there is no such corruption, in which public procurement is regulated, in which, in all other words, it can be talked about, that's fine. Here in Serbia, like this, which is run by your government and previous ones, I'm afraid this is quite dangerous, especially if we add an entire segment of hunting tourism law, where hunting cabins, hunting houses, and even hunting fairies are predicted. I'm afraid that in some ways, it enters a small door into a real estate building that is absolutely for generations of the natural good of this country, which we should leave to our children. We know that in some other countries such spaces are often regulated by those who want to build, have money, or create conditions for building forest fires. I think it's going to be here with some hunting houses, cabins and villas, with the management of private public goods companies. It's a bad experience when a man manages something called a nature park. Analyze how much money Mokra Gora has received, Emir Kusturica of Railways, from the National Investment Plan and see what the effects of this are. We're not against it. Wet Gora existed before Mr. Kusturica wanted to manage it, and the government of Vojislav Kostunica and yours gave it to him. The fact is that you gave this government regulation to him, not to me and Vesni Pesic, but to someone else, the right to restrict other people's private property. It's a violation of the Constitution and it's possible only by law. From nearly 11,000 hectares of this nature park managed by Mr. Kusturica6. 500 acres is private property. He forbids all of these people. It was given to him as an authority when you formed a public enterprise and appointed him director. There are also urban powers, police powers, you have to ask yourself where the fire is, to wonder when the stream is captivated, determines the parking regime, even armed people! I don't think that's exactly a legal example of private - public partnership. I think that investment is much bigger than it's worth, especially when we realize that the next time we meet this law of yours, Mr. Kusturica made a private company, so we can finally say that the investments are public, and the profits are private and all of that, conditionally speaking, on state land. You know he's got a train park there, too. Normally, it's easier and cheaper on those vehicles to have Montenegrin plates. He won't pay to take the trash out of the national park, i.e. the nature park, to the municipality of Uzica, but to make a natural deposit in that park to save money and not to pay. In return, as a result of last year, this nature park, its, our, yours, since this public enterprise, at least partially, paid 300,000 dinars to Užica municipality in a year from the tourist tax, I apologize, 220,000, corrected by Natasa, and only the Hotel "Omorika" 4.5 million dinars. This is an example of how it works when the national wealth is entrusted to someone who is not Vesna Pesic and I. I don't think this law can in principle get our support because there are a lot of things we don't like, among other things, above all, that ethics and the formation of a national corporation. We really need to convey a message from the Western Serbia Tourist Organisation, which is dissatisfied with the abolition of tourist regions and tourist organisations. Your secretary of state said on the board that it was not true and that it was allowed to be established, that it was not prohibited. However, according to the law, it clearly states that regions are being abolished, tourist organisations of the region. Just because they're not mentioned means they're being abolished. We think that this is something that is not in line with what is called European practice, because, ultimately, we know that in the EU we want to join, we are insisting precisely on decentralisation and regional integration. The European Union recognises regions as a form of organisation in many projects. In the light of the bill, there is no reason why the tourist region is being abolished. Probably because it would be difficult to give a logical explanation, because on 1 December 2008, a public debate was held in Uzic on the draft law, and you said that the bill, I am talking about the proposal for a law on regional development, envisioned that there are seven Euroregion in Serbia and that Uzice should be the centre of Western Serbia. The most significant functions of the Euroregion, you said then, will be co-operation with other regions in Europe and competition for IPA funds. Somehow, the abolition of the region and the tourism organisation of the region seems to mean that it would be better if your ministry had control over the IPA funds than if someone from western Serbia, southeastern Serbia or Šumadija had done so that they could garner something that could already be controlled at the level of the ministry. You mentioned that you would reduce the number of members of the Board of Directors of the Tourist Organisation of Serbia as austerity measures, but you did not mention that you founded the Danube Centre for Competence in your ministry, where you will hire foreigners, all on the burden of Serbian taxpayers. In your response, I would like to hear why there can be no tourist region in western Serbia, which unites ten municipalities of western Serbia, and in your ministry there can be a Danube Centre for Competence. Another illogicality at the end of this law is that you predict that the financing of local tourism organisations, municipal tourism organisations for the promotion of tourism is ensured from the revenues achieved by carrying out their work and from other own incomes (which we all know, no), donations, contributions from domestic and foreign legal and physical persons. Will there be any? We don't think there'll be any, especially in the bar. Under three you predict – essentially, that is the intention of the law – the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. With the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, you want to finance local tourism organisations. We don't think that's normal. So far, it is logical that they have financed from local self-government, or local self-government, which leaves 80% of the tourist taxis. This is another proof of this ethics that this law adopts and certainly will not make Serbia a desirable tourist country, nor will it increase the productivity of Serbian tourism, but on the contrary, there will be control... (President: 20 minutes, MP, the time that is at your disposal has been used. )......................................................................................................... the sector in the way the government does it, and that's certainly all before liberal and advanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17369	The word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mr Mladjan Dinkic. Please file a report.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17370	Thank you. I really appreciate every objective criticism, no matter who it comes from, whether it's a member of a political party, whether it's an expert, whether it's an ordinary citizen. If criticism is objective, I'm always happy to accept it. Indeed, when someone criticises only criticism works, then it is something that is a characteristic of certain people, and what Mr. Ostojic was saying is criticism of criticism for the sake of it. For example, it is true that the Tourism Development Strategy, which you yourself praised, was done well. You wondered why some of the provisions of the Tourism Strategy that were here were not now in the new law and you commended the unnamed author of the Tourism Strategy. The unnamed author of the Tourism Strategy is Goran Petkovic, the state secretary at the Ministry of Economy, who also wrote this new law. Apparently, in practice, since he wrote the strategy as a professor of economics, he saw that some things aren't exactly like that. As for the tourism organisation of the region, it has been shown in practice that only western Serbia has managed to create a functional tourism organisation of the region. One parliamentary group, in this case the SNS, submitted an amendment and asked for that provision to be returned. Goran Petkovic advised me that although this has not proved functional until now, except in western Serbia, we should still leave that possibility, so we accepted the amendment. My question is, Mr. Ostojić - why didn't you submit such an amendment, if you really think there should be such a region? The amendment has been accepted, although we warn that so far it has not been functionally demonstrated and that no one but Western Serbia has taken advantage of it. But we don't want those who were more advanced now to prevent them from having their own organization. Maybe other regions will start them tomorrow. The second thing, you criticised the etatism, that is, the establishment of a national tourism development corporation. Mr. Ostojic, I assume you're in favour of Serbia's entry into the EU. If that's the case, I can tell you a few things. Some are formal, some are essential. Of the formal things, it may be relevant for you that this corporation will withdraw a million euros from the EU IPA funds, since it is one of the priority projects for financing from IPA funds in 2009. The only thing to be expected is the adoption of this law so that those funds can be withdrawn. If the European Union, which I too advocate for, I suppose, supports the formation of such an institution as a more efficient organisation of tourism, then you can call it etatism. The fact is that there may be confusion in our heads about what the role of the state is, what is the role of the market, but it has been shown that neither the role of the state can be permanently defined as a role that depends on the period of time, nor the role of the market can be defined as a book, permanently, and this depends on time. You saw for yourself what the market did in the financial sector in countries that didn't regulate that market, like America. You also see for yourself, you mentioned, however completely justified, that Egypt and Greece are in themselves tourist countries and that you probably think that these corporations they have, as we want to do, are not helpful enough, but would have had such incomes and had not had a corporation. However, I want to assure you that Syria was an absolute outsider in tourism. After the establishment of this corporation and the state's involvement in tourism breakthrough, Syria has now become a serious tourist country. There are other examples. We are certainly not a country that can be compared by the potential for tourism to neither Egypt nor Greece nor Cyprus, but precisely because we do not have these natural potentials in the way that large tourist destinations of countries have some processes to push. As for the role of the corporation, it should actually introduce a model of project financing and management of tourist destinations. No ministry can do that. The government can't do that. That's what people who are skilled in this area have to do. When you mention whether the state should interfere or not, to what extent, it's just a matter of measure. The law here provides for a public and private sector partnership, and it's absolutely certain that if the state in some potential tourist regions doesn't build infrastructure, there's no way that hotelers will come here, there's no way that someone can build restaurants. I'll give you at least two examples. One example you mentioned is the Old Mountain. The old mountain has stood for years as it was a few years ago. If the state hadn't set out to build a road, if the state hadn't built the first wire, the Old Mountain would have remained that way for centuries. No private initiative would help. The population drain would continue. People wouldn't live there anymore. There live people who have a really high average of years, for the simple reason that young people have left the entire area of eastern Serbia. However, when you made a master plan, when you started investing in infrastructure, made the first cabler, the idea of building a hotel, restaurant, will be produced for those tourists, and a tourist region slowly starts to form. Could it have been and could it have been done without the state? He can't. The state must take serious first steps in such situations. The same applies to different destinations that have been described for years by lovers of tourism as our great opportunity, such as archaeological sites, such as different cultural goods such as the Romulana, Lepenski source, Vimicijama. Without State investment in this and without greater marketing, these findings and these monuments would surely remain as they were in the previous centuries. Therefore, the state plays an important role in the development of tourism and this corporation should only deal with priority tourist destinations – I have already mentioned, there are no more than a dozen in all Serbia – while local organisations should help develop their local tourism potentials. As for your findings, if we had invested money in the previous period in Kopalnik, I can tell you that I am proud of it, because if the Kopalnik had not experienced the revitalisation of the infrastructure, he would never have as many tourists as there are now, nor would he have any potential, because in the last five years tourists have gone abroad to the mountains. It's a shame that the Capalnik, the Malten, is the only one at the moment, and that's why our goal is to have more Kopalniks in the next period. Each of these investments paid more than that. This year, a maximum number of tourists have been recorded in Kopalnik since the records were made. All those who go to the Bath know what the Bather was five years ago and know what it is today. When we talk about numbers, since Mr. Petkovic took over the tourism portfolio within the Ministry of Economy, as State Secretary, and since I became Minister of Economy, it was May 15, 2007, we have found income from foreign tourists at $430,00,000. By mixing the country, we have contributed to the increase of these revenues to 944,000 dollars in just two years. So from 2006 to 2008, more than doubled foreign exchange revenues from tourism in Serbia were. If anyone believed that Serbia would have over a billion dollars in income, because just a few years ago, in 2005, it was about 300 and a few million... Probably no one expected Serbia without having to have that much. I'm telling you that in the next five years, we can double these billions of dollars, but not by letting the initiative go to the private sector, because without infrastructure, some potential tourist facilities and destinations will never develop. Two more things. As far as the Chamber of Commerce is concerned, it's not the subject of this law, I'm surprised at the approach. We have proposed voluntary membership in the chambers of commerce, so that businesses do not have to pay for mandatory participation, but to seek their own interest. If their association is business, chamber, good, they'll pay for their interest. Why make anyone pay the membership fees to the chambers? It's a completely reverse approach. Here we advocate, in this case, volunteering, that the state step out of that system and that businessmen are motivated to be chamber members through the provision of services by people who are employed in these chambers. You can never make anyone do anything by forcing him to pay to represent some interests. When it comes to businessmen, the chamber cannot be encouraged to have a better administration, to better represent interests, unless membership is voluntary. Finally, you asked a question, probably because of a lack of information, why this Danube Competence Center was formed. It was formed at the initiative of the German government, which gave us a million and a half euros in donations, in order to place the money for the development of tourism in the lower Podunavlje. Such a centre exists in Ulm, they recommended us; therefore, it is not some new institution, it is a mechanism for using the donation of the German government, an EU member, to encourage the tourism of the lower Podunovlje, because it is a wish for both Germany and Serbia to be the centre of tourism on the Serbian side in the lower Podunavlje. You know for a fact that we are users of the entire region of Romania, Bulgaria and us. We want to do something more with it. So things aren't black and white. Principlely, philosophically, we can advocate that the state shouldn't interfere with certain things, but there are things that it has to interfere with. Theoretically, the state mixes everywhere there are market deficits. That's what you learned in college, that's what I learned, that's the rule. Where the market is unable to give something that gives good effects, that state has to interfere, in some times more, in some less. These things are never nailed and fixed. In these times of the global financial crisis, the state must take on even greater responsibility because the market has proved to be defective, or ineffective. Tomorrow will probably be less. People don't need to slave for form, they need to look at the essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17371	National MP Zoran Ostojic is entitled to a three-minute replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17372	Mr. Dinkich, you don't have to be personal. I didn't criticise you for criticism, although you're really, as I say, drawn in that direction. I tried to be specific. I never mentioned the Bather once. I hope it's a lapus, not a manners, I'm talking about Wet Mountain, and you're telling me about the Bath. You didn't mention Wet Gora. You didn't mention Wet Gora, and I didn't mention the Kopalnik.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17373	People's MP, you've won the line because I listen very carefully to the presentations and the MPs and the proposings' representatives, so I ask you all to do it. So, the Kopalnik as a tourist destination is mentioned in your presentation, so please compare your replica and please without throwing to the MPs. Please give your replica, to which you have been given the right to mention you in the presentation of the motionary representative, to compare what you have received the replica. The basis for receiving a replica is the interpretation of your presentation by the proposing representatives and one wrong interpretation should not cause another misreading. The explanation is to direct the MPs to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and does not mean to take away the time available to the People's Parliament for replication, so you have two minutes and ten seconds from now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17374	The tourism development strategy of the Republic of Serbia was not written by Mr. Petkovic, but was done by the consultant house "Horvat Consulating" from Zagreb, and she did it for both Croatia and Bosnia, both for Montenegro and Albania. I didn't praise her because I didn't study her. Someone tells me that "copy, paste" from Croatia, but I find it suspicious, given that Croatia has sea. In any case, the law and the strategy differ. If Mr. Petkovic had written both of them, then they wouldn't have parted. Or do they differ in certain matters because of the interest this law needs... That was the essence of my exposure, you didn't answer me. Yes, we are for the EU, both for NATO and for the EU, in works, not words. Where does this law even mention European integration? Only when IPA funds are mentioned. You're saying we'll get a million euros from the access funds if we start a national tourism corporation, which you've also predicted a million euros, 100 million dinars. Right? Is that true today? Will next week, when we get the budget rebalance, be that hundred million dinars, or will we run out of it and not have those millions of dinars? It's not, Mr Dinkic, at least as far as we're concerned, the EU is only in money, it's in value. There may be some money here, but centralization means that few people will control that money, and that was an observation of ethics and the spirit of this law, and the value, unfortunately, is not. After all, the state cannot be an entrepreneur who will build a cable and a hotel, the state should make a road, and private capital will build a hotel when there are times and when the state will concession private capital to build a cable car.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17375	As a result of the violations of the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Micic asked for a MP and received his word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I'm just asking you to sign into the electronic system so you can get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17376	Mrs. Comic, you've injured Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which determines that you can interrupt the speaker only if he does not adhere to the subject of the agenda. That's clearly indicated, look. You interrupted Mr. Zoran Ostojić by entering whether he speaks truthfully or not. If the Rules of Procedure were to be applied as you think, you would have to be an expert in all areas and you would have to interrupt Mr Dinkic and ask him why he didn't say anything about the Park of Nature of Mokra Gora, on the question of the MP. Therefore, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. You don't have to explain it to me, I'm asking the Assembly to come forward, because we're gonna be wasting our time since you're gonna be talking for five minutes. So the President of the Assembly or the one who changes it does not enter into the truth of what the MPs are saying. The MPs themselves bear this responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17377	National MPs, regardless of what you have or do not wish to give an explanation, I am obliged, on the basis of article 100, to give you an explanation that there is no violation of Article 103. In your presentation, which should have been used to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure, there is an argument -- it does not stick to the subject. National MP Zoran Ostojic received the right to replication. The right to replica is the discretionary right of the chairman to assess whether he has a basis for the MP seeking it to receive the right to reply. If the right to replication is sought on the basis of what the MP has estimated to be incorrectly interpreted or not sufficiently explained in the response or in the presentation of the proposing representative, then there is an obligation to listen to what has been said before. There is no need for the chairman to be an expert on all areas, but there is a need for MPs to listen to each other and listen to themselves. If the MP asks for the right and gets the right to reply with a replica and to explain with a replica the truthfulness of his own exposure, then he has an obligation to watch what he says to stick to the subject. In the previous presentation of MP Zoran Ostojić, right and in the time he had of 20 minutes... (Employment of Natasa Micic, from the place: Please don't convince us yet. We're really wasting our time. )......................................................................................................... I just listened to him very carefully, and it's an obligation for all of us. I didn't interrupt it, whether I personally consider the exposure to be correct, incorrect, fluent or style. But when he asks for a replica and he gets a replica, then we have to watch what we're saying, so there's no harm to the Rules of Procedure, and the Assembly will declare itself in the day of the vote. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I did not give a warning about, is the discarding of the MPs, i.e. the MPs of Judita Popovic and the MPs of Natasa Micic. Advocacy is forbidden by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but no warning has been given because I find it perfectly natural in such discussions and that it is good for congregation debates and tossing, when it is funny. National MP Judita Popovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17378	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, shall report within the meaning of Article 31. The Rules of Procedure and I appeal to my right as Vice President of the Assembly. In this regard, then, I also suggested that the chair of today’s session be chaired by what should be done, that is, how it should be conducted, that is, today’s debate. It is obvious that there have been some problems with the objectivity of conducting the procedure, since the chairman is entering the essence of the replica. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, do not give the speaker of the congregation the right to enter into the essence of whether or not someone exhibits correctly, what attitudes he has, and whether he agrees specifically with those views. The chairman today, in particular in this case, acted as a representative, as prime minister, putting himself directly on his side and calling on MP Zoran Ostojic not to stick to the topic, i.e. he has some problems with understanding Mr. Minister's presentation. I understand that Mr. Minister of the Coalition is in power together with the chairman, so they probably have the same views on this subject as many others, however, it does not give the chairman the right to allow any MP, one who disagrees with the presentation of Mr. Minister, warning and interruptions in the presentation, thus disabling him from the concentration of this presentation. So it's just that everyone has the right to make their views known to the assembly speaker, to say what he thinks about the specific subject, about the specific law... (President: Two minutes. It's time to say "Rich's injury." )......................................................................................................... Given that I have called on Article 31, as vice president of the Assembly, I feel I have a right, unless it's handled properly... (President: National MPs, breach of the Rules of Procedure is regulated by members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's just that I've called on Article 31...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17379	Calling on Article 100, when you want to get the word to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, is an invitation to Article 100. It is the same right for each MP, for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, for the presidents of the parliamentary groups or for the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Article 31 has not been injured in any of its views. The chairman is under the obligation, and he is the only one allowed to interrupt any speaker of the National Assembly if he considers that he is acting contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The fact that I mentioned that you were throwing away, and you weren't warned, was expressed with my personal attitude, since I was asked about it, that these are events that are good for the congregations, if they are done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with the provisions that oblige us to behave among ourselves. The replica is requested, and the chairman has a discretionary right to reply yes, because something is not well interpreted or misread, or there have been some insults. If the minister and vice-president of the government had dared to insult the MPs, they would have been warned. He can try any minister while I preside, see if that's true. Likewise, the People's Messenger cannot claim that what was said was not said. In voting day, we can plead, if you like, and about this violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Milutin Jelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I want to say something about the laws on tourism and on foreign trade. Tourism is one of the most significant industries to which we need to pay more attention and invest more money, as many countries in the environment, many developed countries of Europe and developing countries do. In some countries, tourism is the first or second branch of the economy, where gross social product participates in the national economy with 20% and 25%, such as Greece, Austria, Spain, Italy, Croatia, Montenegro. Bulgaria gets about 15 per cent of tourism, so much to participate in the gross social product. Now I'm going to tell you about the foreign exchange inflow from tourism. In Serbia, in 2008, there were 944,000 dollars, or 9% higher than in 2007 when the foreign exchange inflow was $865,000. The foreign exchange outflow in 2008 was $1,254,000, or 20% higher than in 2007 when the outflow was 1,041.000,000. The deficit of inflows and outflows in tourism is 310.000,000. It should be noted that foreign exchange inflows and outflows are also involved, so-called. Expensive consumption. This is the NBS data. The participation of tourism in the Serbian social product is only 4.7%, which says we are an undeveloped tourist country. That's why the government and the resolution ministries, the tourism ministry, should invest more. I think we're the only country in Europe that doesn't have a special tourism ministry, and we should have, given the importance of tourism as an economic branch. We have the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, so one part belongs to trade, one part to the Ministry of Economy, then, especially the Ministry of Sports... If a good tourism ministry were to be made, given the importance of our country, we have potential, regardless of our lack of sea, it can, with the development of agriculture, be tourism elsewhere, as is the case in Austria. The first is industry, second is tourism, and third is agriculture. Hungary, which has no sea, is on a good path to tourism development. Besides agriculture, tourism is an important branch of the economy, which improves the national economy. Now I'm going to tell you that countries in Europe and the world, with how many percent of tourism, as a branch of economy, participates in national economies in gross social products. France comes first. Tourism is third in France, but it is the most visited by foreign tourists. The country is visited by 81,900,000 tourists, while tourism participation in the gross social product is 11%. Spain is second in the world and Europe. The number of foreign tourists is 59.2 million or 20% of gross social product on tourism. Then, third place is the United States, which visits 56 million, China 54 million. Italy ranks fifth in the number of foreign guests and tourism participation in the gross social product is 13%. The 12th place includes Austria, which has no sea, and is visited by 21,000,000 foreign tourists, while participation from tourism in Austria's national gross product is 25%. Greece is in 16th place with 20% tourism participation in the gross social product, with 16,000,000 tourists. Croatia visits nine million tourists, and participation in the gross social product of tourism is 25.5%. Neighbouring Bulgaria is 39th; 5.2 million tourists visit it, the participation of tourism in Bulgaria's gross social product is 15%. About 1,400,000 foreign tourists visit us and, I said, the gross social product from tourism is 4.7. As for the development of tourism in our country, the minister mentioned significant tourist destinations for a short time. We have mostly developed Banish and mountain tourism, and there are great prospects for the development of rural, hunting, fishing, river, sports, religious tourism. I mean medieval cities and numerous monasteries to be used for tourism; with little investment from the state there can provide a significant foreign exchange inflow in our country. As for the visit of local tourists, our most visited destinations in January this year are Kopalnik, where I come from, from the municipality of Brus, with 155,880 domestic tourists, and Zlatibor is second with 70,729, Belgrade is third with 47,000, then Vrnjačka Banja 47,000 and something, Divcibare 31,000, Tara 29,000, Niška Banja 29,000, Sokobanja, Banja Koviljača, etc. Visiting information from foreign tourists, the minister said for a little while that Belgrade was the most visited, followed by Kopalnik, Novi Sad, Zlatibor, Nis etc. What is important to note about the development of tourism in our country, and what are the problems most often referred to by domestic and foreign tourists, which we have much to do? These problems which domestic and foreign tourists complain are mainly infrastructure, tourism and other signalling, obsolescence of hotel facilities and accommodations, cleanliness and communal problems in tourist centres, then transportation from tourist destinations (the distance from Belgrade Airport to Kopalnik is about 300 kilometers away). That's what tourists most complain about. Since we're at the airport, I'd like to ask the government a question, there's no Secretary of State here – why isn't the airport in Nis running full capacity, but serves as some sort of temporary solution? The airport can cover half of central Serbia, south and southeastern, is only 120km from the airport's centre of Kopalnik. Surely the number of foreign tourists would be much higher if that airport worked. The biggest problem with Serbian tourism is the short period of detention of tourists, as catering and tourist facilities do not provide them with all comforts and complete entertainment. With us in Serbia, every eight hotels have a swimming pool, and each tenth has sports courts and facilities, while every sixth has some conference facilities. The state has to go to that field and the rest of the departments... Unfortunately, again, I say that the tourism ministry should gain much more importance than it has now, because it has been divided into several resolution ministries. That's why we have such bad results and the participation of foreign exchange inflows from tourism in our economy is very little. Due to all these problems and because this tourism ministry has been torn up and cut into several resolution ministries, New Serbia and New Serbia MPs will not vote for this law until this is settled properly once. Besides agriculture, tourism deserves to be another branch of economy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17381	The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mr Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17382	Here are a few answers to your discussion. As for the establishment of a special tourism ministry, believe me, there is no need to establish it, because only two countries in Europe have such ministries, Greece and Croatia, because in Croatia it is the tourism and maritime ministry because they have the sea and because the biggest revenues from tourism come from the sea. We don't have the sea and we really don't need it, and other countries have dealt with the issue of the tourism sector in the same way. So in all countries in Europe, there is also a tourism sector within the economy ministry. I agree with you that we need to go with more investment in order to have more income. The fact is, we currently have a billion dollars in tourism revenue, and our tourists are spending abroad, like you said, a billion and two hundred, which means we have a deficit. However, the government cannot and will not prevent people from choosing where they will travel on their own; we will do something else, we will try to encourage the development of domestic tourism and from this programme of government. On Thursday, I want to inform you, the government will adopt a supplement of the World Economic Crisis Action Programme and the item "subsidised consumer loans" intended to purchase domestic production goods will also introduce lending, at the rate of subsidised interest, tourist travel in Serbia this year. In other words, after Easter, for all those citizens who want to spend their vacation in Serbia, in Serbia's tourist resorts, they will begin to approve favourable loans within six to twelve months, with interest that will be for the purchase of the Kragujevac "punta" - 4.5% annually. So we extend the credit for citizens from buying domestic goods to purchase domestic services, because tourist services represent important services. This will be available after the government's decision has been made and immediately afterwards, the bank will start the lending process. By the way, you asked a question about the airport in Nis. Thanks to the MPs of the National Assembly, the ratification of the Free Sky Agreement over Europe will open up the possibility, finally, that Serbia will also fly so-called. Low budget airlines, which will make the airport in Nis, as well as Belgrade, more attractive. At the same time, the government has allocated adequate funds for this year to renovate a runway at the airport, so larger planes can land. That renovation should end this year and next. As for Kopalnik, my associates gave me information – in the first three months of this year alone, 67% more income was achieved from tourism in Kopalnik than in 2004. So, in three months this year, after those state investments in the previous five years, income growth and the number of tourists by 47%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17383	The word is from MP Milan Djokic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17384	The Honorable Presidency, the Deputy Prime Minister, is ahead of us today, among other legal solutions and the text of the Tourism Law proposal, a business branch that has been in big expansion in Serbia for the last few years. As the minister said, those revenues have tripled in the last five years. In 2004, I would point out again, these revenues were only $300,000. As early as 2008, 2,200,000 guests were in Serbia and close to seven and a half million overnight stays were reached, making revenues of nearly a billion dollars. I note that these long-term plans were planned only for 2012, and here, it was almost reached in 2008. Nevertheless, it is evident that the significant tourism potentials we have as a state are not sufficiently developed and commercialised on the tourist market and that there is certainly room for further progress in tourism as an economic branch. It is also the purpose of adopting a new tourism law to create conditions for a better planning and management system in tourism, to improve the competitiveness of Serbia's tourist product and to better position Serbia on the global European and global markets. Until a few years ago, examples of good and successfully realised tourism projects were rare and controversial. All of Serbia's tourism potential was left to local self-governments, which, despite their goodwill, did not have enough capacity, neither financial, no organisational, no personnel, no institutional, to make significant shifts in tourism. It is clear that municipalities from their budgets cannot finance either the necessary municipal infrastructure, nor the tourist infrastructure, cannot finance even through the necessary planning documentation, they cannot, as a rule, solve the accumulated problems with legal and immuvine relations. After all, they can't even adequately manage and form destination management models. The often mentioned example today is an example of the Old Mountain, which is the undisputed greatest mountain potential for tourism development, even in Europe. That resource stood untapped until the state decided to deal with this issue more seriously. First there was planned documentation, investment studies, then legal and property relations were resolved, eventually an intense investment cycle in capital municipal and tourist infrastructure was launched. As a consequence, although only a few percent of the entire potential of the Old Mountain has been put into operation for now, we have that almost completely dead old mountain villages are reviving, that children of those who left these villages are returning to them long ago, that nothing new houses with rooms and rent apartments are being opened, catering facilities are being registered, agricultural holdings are being registered. Such examples are also present in Kopalnik, Golia, Tara, and wherever the state intervened during the previous period in one way or another. Many residents of Zaječarski, Pirotski and Nisavski County see some business but also an existential chance right in the development of tourist business, for example, on the Old Mountain. All of this is to point out that the state's wish is not to use this law and the formation of a national tourism corporation to take away powers or revenues from local self-governments, which is often imputed, but rather to create a mechanism for effective intervention of the state, both financially and organisationally, and professionally, but also institutionally. Examples from developed tourism countries where there were problems with tourism development, where productivity was reduced, where there was not enough power in both public and private sectors saying that the state can do very effectively, through the formation of specialised agencies, through the formation of companies with the majority of the state, prepare investment projects, and even act as entrepreneurs itself, all in order to improve and speed up the development of tourism. It is useful for the state to delegate its institutional representative who will be not only an initiator of useful projects, but also a stable partner and domestic and international investors who want to invest money in the development of tourism in Serbia. It is the national tourism corporation that is the main but not only institutional representative of the state who, on the other hand, will also compensate for a very visible deficit of local development entities which, unfortunately, are still not sufficient in Serbia. According to this legal solution, tourism is still being promoted by Serbian and local self-government tourism organisations. Also, there has been an existing division of travel agencies and tourist agencies brokers in the sale of tourist trips; technical and personnel conditions for the formation of agencies have been prescribed, so that each agency must have at least one employee as an exposition manager, with at least a higher professional provision of tourism, economical or any other social direction. This will certainly contribute to the employment of expert staff, on the one hand, but will carry out a selection of serious agencies from those who are not but continue to do this job. The proposed solutions tighten the responsibility of travel organiser agencies to more disciplined adhere to travel programmes and conditions. The paper in this law, which is also very important, is the introduction of a pen for inadequate possession of the most valuable tourist destinations, worth as much as two million euros. Finally, after the development of the Tourism Development Strategy, which defined the basic direction of tourism development in Serbia, after the development of many master plans that gave precise guidelines for development and management of the most valuable tourist destinations, we are one step away from the adoption of the tourism law that should give a legal framework for the effective and rational management of tourism development, on the one hand, and on the other, to comply with world and European standards and standards. Finally, what is also important, this legal solution has also provided greater protection for users of tourist services. Due to all the above, the G17 Group of MPs will support the draft tourism law in the day to vote, with full conviction that it will make a significant step in the development of tourism in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17385	The word has been given by MP Arsen Djuric, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17386	At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the ruling coalition for uniting the discussion of four draft laws: foreign trade, the draft legislation on standardisation, the draft legislation on tourism and the draft legislation on technical requirements for products and the assessment of compliance. You will agree that these four laws do not have much in common and thus we are disabled to discuss these proposed texts in a good and valid way, due to lack of time. But not to waste this little time I have, the DSS Group has a lot of objections to the proposal for a law on foreign trade. We have submitted several amendments to try to make this text more quality, but my colleagues will talk about it in principle debate, and in my speech, I will base myself on the proposal for a tourism law. One of the concerns about the proposal for a tourism law is certainly insufficient public debate on the proposal, that is, this proposal that is now in front of us, since we had two proposals that did not come to the assembly's agenda. When I say that there is insufficient debate above all, I mean under-consultation with local tourism organisations, local self-government units and some other professional associations and associations, because if there were a little more discussion, I suppose the text would be more quality and complete. What makes me happy is knowing that seven or eight amendments have been accepted by the DSS Parliamentary Group. This will certainly correct the proposed text of the law, which will remove some of the shortcomings that may have existed in the original text. Our fundamental objection to this law refers to the section concerning the declaration, use and management of tourist space. Namely, the bill provides for a space that, due to its values and characteristics, deserves a special organisation and management regime or plans to build some of the facilities of national interest, according to the ministry's proposal, to be declared a tourist space. The act of declaration contains the name of the tourist resort, a list of cadastrian plots, a graphic depiction with the borders of that tourist space, a list of plot owners, as well as the name and headquarters of the subject to which the space is entrusted to the management. In any word, there is no mention of the local self-government unit in whose territory is the area. So, apart from participating in public insight, like any other citizen, the local self-government unit has no ability to influence the declaration of tourist space and the administration of this tourist space. So far, municipalities, i.e. local self-government units, have managed the area, had jurisdiction and huge revenues in the area. I suppose the tourist space meant certain parts of tourist destinations, however, the very concept of the law does not specify exactly what a tourist space can be. There is a concern of local self-government across Serbia that all tourist destinations can be declared a tourist space, excluded from the municipality's jurisdiction and given to someone else in the administration. We believe that in this time, when it comes to equal regional development, when the necessity of decentralisation is discussed, that is, to transfer certain responsibilities to municipalities and responsibilities of these municipalities, this law carries out classical centralisation and that municipalities are trying to take on certain responsibilities which they now have. It's not just jurisdiction, it's huge incomes. The government's package of measures to prevent the consequences of the economic crisis will also most sense units of local self-government, from reducing transfer funds, from reducing the funds of the finance ministries of certain projects that were to be implemented across Serbia in municipalities. By reducing these revenues, if this law is adopted in this form, I really don't know how municipalities in Serbia will be able to function. We have submitted two amendments to this article of the law, Article 14, to this article. One refers to the need to include a local self-government unit in the process of declaring tourist space itself, and the other amendment concerns who can manage it. That's the most controversial thing for us in this bill. The bill states that space can be managed by a public enterprise or an institution founded by the Republic of Serbia, a unit of local self-government or an autonomous province, or by another private company or a company. Given the competences and powers that the tourist space manager receives, it is absolutely unacceptable for us that a private company can manage the space. In the areas of tourist space managers, it is said that there are broad powers regarding the planning and use of construction land, in terms of the coordination and development of tourism infrastructure projects, tourist substructures, huge revenues from the issue of sites for building buildings, trade, tourism, entertainment parks, sports and recreational facilities, parking spaces and other facilities. We find it absolutely unacceptable that a private company can deal with these matters, which should be exclusively in the jurisdiction of the state or municipality. In this regard, we have proposed amendments that the tourist space manager may be a tourist organisation, destination management organisation or other public enterprise or institution whose founder is the Republic, autonomous province or unit of local self-government. Serbia's tourism development strategy plans to establish destination management organisations according to the public and private sector partnership model. We believe that it is absolutely the most logical that such organisations manage the tourist space. Here in the law and in the explanation of the promoters, this partnership of the public and private sectors has been mentioned several times, but more declaratively. So, in the provisions of the law nowhere is clearly defined and specified in which way this partnership will be realized. In our amendment, we have proposed that this is precisely what we would suggest, that the destination management of the organisation be established according to the model of partnership of the public and private sector, so that in the ownership structure and the governance structure of these organisations a certain percentage would have the Republic of Serbia, a certain percentage of the units of local self-government and a certain percentage of the most important economic operators involved in tourism in the area, etc. Steakholders. In this way, all relevant actors interested in the development of tourism in the area would be involved in governance. I call on the minister to review these amendments again and to accept them by the end of this debate, given that similar amendments have been submitted by MPs of the ruling parties. I think there is room to accept and to define in a more precise way the management of the tourist space and this model of public and private sector partnership, which we consider to be the most sustainable in terms of the management of the tourist space. On the other hand, I agree that there should be a state institution, whether it's a national tourism corporation or some other institution that will manage projects. We've submitted one amendment here, too. It says here that, among other things, the work that needs to be done, the national tourism corporation should finance and manage the projects of the tourism superstructure. We suggested that it be deleted, for reasons that would mean that the state institution should participate in financing catering facilities or some other commercial content. We believe that the state or its institution in charge of the area should invest in infrastructure, development projects, master plans, strategies, create an investment environment and leave entrepreneurship to private investors. Tourist organisations for the promotion of tourism – there is a national, tourist organisation of an autonomous province and a tourism organisation of local self-government. I would like to correct the minister, not only one party, so the DSS Group has also proposed that regional tourism organisations remain. That amendment of ours has also been accepted, as far as I'm aware. I come from Zlatibor, who actively participates in the work of the regional Tourist Organisation of the Western Serbia region. Several more regional tourism organisations are planned to be established. I think we should leave the possibility for municipalities to, if they have interest, establish regional tourism organisations and thus promote their common tourism product. When it comes to local tourism organisations, they are envisaged as tourism promotion organisations, which has been their main activity so far. What is surprising is that one of the activities now planned by this law is intervening in the provision of domestic services. I think that in this way, in some ways, unfair competition is being created for tourist agencies, but I don't think it's going to live, that tourist organisations will primarily deal with what they're founded for, and that's informative-propagand activity. What is good and what is new in this law is certainly a register of tourism. The Agency for Business Registers will run the register and thus will be simplified and simplified registration of business entities. Also, one of the newspapers in this law is foams for the use of priority tourist destinations. I support this because the government will declare priority tourist destinations and thus prescribe the category of facilities that are located there, with the obligation of the owners of these facilities to adapt the category of act adopted. If they don't, they're obliged to pay for the penalty. This is the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We have submitted the amendment that we asked 50% of the revenue to be the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the other 50% to be the income of units of local self-government on whose territory the facility is located, with the obligation of the municipality to use these funds deliberately for further development of tourism infrastructure. When it comes to rural tourism, it is planned that rural households can issue their capacities through tourist organisations, tourist agencies. It's a provision in the law that existed so far. We have proposed an amendment to allow representatives of rural tourist households to issue their capacities through tourism associations established in the territory as well. We suggested this because tourist agencies are not interested enough to sell this type of capacity in rural tourism. We believe that it is necessary to leave the possibility for hosts to organize, establish their associations and, under the same conditions, which means on the basis of the contract, they can also issue capacities through tourist associations. That's what I'm saying from experience, because I come from the Tchaitin municipality where we have nine tourist associations in rural local communities that function that way. In the end, I would like to invite the minister to accept some of the essential amendments to this bill. We have indeed made a constructive approach to the writing of these amendments. We will constructively participate in the debate to correct the proposed text of the law and create conditions for better use of the potential that Serbia has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17387	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? (People's MP Tomislav Nikolic throws out of place. I ask, do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? (People's MP Tomislav Nikolic throws out of place. ) If you want a word, please, you just need to register in the electronic system. An electronic voting unit should only be pressed once. If you press twice, delete from electronic records. That's a notice. I thank you for noticing that we have a problem with the electronic unit. To all MPs – the switch you log into the electronic system because you want the word to be pressed only once. At that moment, the name appears on the screen and I give you my word; the microphone turns off from here. Do you want a word, since it's 13.55? Yes, you do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't know if I pressed five times you wouldn't see, and one day you'd see. Why didn't you see that first time I pressed? All right, let's not talk about it, it's more important to me that Mladjan Dinkic finally showed up in the National Assembly, and since I feel more sympathetic with him than he does with me, I can at least say that we don't have any particular will to meet him at the same place, but there is a function to bring him to the MPs, not just in front of the cameras and the people. Today, I saw a new young man, Dinkic -- he's not angry, he's not confident, he seems a little penitent, he won't admit it. Let's see what happens in Serbia when we consider all the laws of Mladjan Dinkic, regardless of whether they matter or not, and all under suspicion that he is a flyer, so also about this law on tourism, which will be spoken of professionally by our representatives, I think I am not obliged to speak professionally, and the minister has not been able to professionally read several sentences written to him. I don't come from a tourist town. For my place, the place of origin of my Nikolic is not an interested minister. He never skied there. That's why there's no asphalt road there, so there are 17 nursing homes that, if it hadn't been for the Kragujevac municipality, no one would have cleaned the snow. I feel disabled compared to those who know that the minister is skiing and how willing he is to invest in the development of their environment just so he has a place to explore new trails and new ski suits. Mr. Minister, you've been deciding Serbia's fate for nine years. It's all in your hands. You led us to the fact that we no longer have anything and that we can no longer use any of our resources, because you've ruined them systematically for nine years. You started with banks, and now you're finishing up with ski resorts and our tourist centers. Why don't we have our own banks? Why don't we have a development bank now? How are we going to develop tourism? What means? IMF? That's why pensioners will stay hungry, so we can develop tourism. I can't support it, nor can I support the fact that someone has been harassing Serbia for nine years with 3% of the votes they can win in the elections, and that's why I'm asking for new elections, that you don't represent Serbia anymore when these laws are on the agenda, but that it represents someone who won the votes. You've ruined too much so that in times of crisis, we should rely on you to guide us, to know what hunger and poverty look like, to know where it should be saved. Plus, you have made a statement that your political party will carry out its parliamentary group from the Serbian Parliament and that you will apply for the resolution of all prosecutors in Serbia, unless they launch an investigation into whether the passport of the Republic of Serbia is in line with the standard passed on to other countries in the world, or not. You're asking him to be in jail or the minister or whoever passed the false news. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, of Article 5. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, Chapter Independence in Work, Paragraph 2 – is prohibited from any influence on the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office and on the handling of cases by the executive and legislative authorities by using public office, public information means or in any way that could endanger independence in the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm not talking about the prosecution's independence, I'm talking about independence that you don't want to provide. Who are you, Mr. Minister, to tell the D.A. - you have to launch an investigation? That's what you do from the cabinet, as you do, stop here, run here. But in the media, you say that. You're so many ossions. You closed the bank to Bogoljub Karic seven or eight times; whenever you shut it down, the Supreme Court annuls your solution and you immediately issue a new solution, until you destroy that bank. I don't belong to Karic's line, so I won't defend him too much. I remember a statement concerning the other Dinkic, who then spoke from you, and you said, "We will also take the mattress on which he sleeps." I'm sorry. A normal man can't say that. That's how you ruined Serbian banking, that kind of business, that's how you put us in bonds. It's not a lie, I keep all the photos of the ministers when they say something. You told us we'd have a thousand euros in bonds from the sale of large public enterprises, and then you cut us down, and we'll pay you back. You sold NIS, and we'll pay you back, just say how much and don't increase it, but once you tell us how much to pay and we'll pay. This morning I hear there will be a reregistering of foreign vehicles, he says, from foreign states. People ask – is it from Montenegro? He says he'll be from all foreign states reregistering. The Ministry's representative says: "Why should we deprive ourselves of the incomes that belong to us?" People, for ten years, you've been depriving yourself of those incomes, so wasn't it a sin in the past and all these years that you haven't performed that re-registration? What did someone in Serbia register a car in Montenegro for seven years? Now you remembered it was one source of income you were depriving. Now you will no longer deprive yourself of that income. You're telling us about maritime tourism. When you became power, we had sea. You took the whole sea away from us. You did so much during your reign and harassing Serbia. You've come here today to present us with some new law, and I have information from the car factory that out of 115 mounted "punta" only three pieces passed Italian control and that it's due to the rarity of the tools, and that probably "the flag" will decide to go on vacation, because the laundromat is being arranged. Minister, you promised 300,000 cars a year from Kragujevac. You've won power, you're from the ZES, at the Kragujevac car factory. Now you're telling us about tourism, you're moving on to other topics and MPs' diaries, pausals, salaries. The assembly is a scandal, according to you, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Look at you in the mirror. You've been elected by the MPs. You think they chose you with their heart and will? You think those other parties who voted for you had confidence when they voted for you? No, they're not. They know your sins very well. They can't do anything about it, because you're blackmailing. You were blackmailing the government with an energy agreement with Russia and an agreement on the sale of NIS. It broke for a long time until someone broke you to shut up for a little while, at least five days, for that agreement to be signed. Then you announced that you were negotiating the sale of Petrochemy to Iran. Now who are you sticking your finger in your eye to? Who are you blackmailing now? Maybe they'll let you down the water, keep you safe by the Americans? Maybe you told them - if you don't save me, I'll sell Petrochemia to Iran. You have a large blackmail capacity because Boris Tadic has composed the government of parties that do not naturally belong to it, which are not its natural environment. He doesn't want to go to an emergency parliamentary election. If you will not, by your own mind, the people will by their own mind. Or do you think he'll put up with you too long? You don't tell me here, if you're investing as much in tourism as you've invested in a set this year? What are we gonna eat this year? You're talking about skiing, so now the state is going to build centers, and the privates are going to keep the monopoly in those centers on every penny they make. It's your bathing suit now. That's what you're going to invest in the bathroom and the privates are going to hold all the facilities where the money is made. You'll bet. What do you want to invest in? In elite tourism? You'll find someone here in elite tourism. Nicely said by some predecessor – where are our villages? Why don't you limit yourself to what's best, rural tourism, so the kids can see what the village is, to see what the real village is, what's the natural environment? No, you left the rural areas. People who grew up there don't like to go there because they have nowhere to go. You're building three or four centers. They'll have skis on them. Maybe even someone who buys a "punto" gets seven days of skiing on the bathroom, it's like coming to him. Anything can come to your mind, you're capable of it all. We have no confidence in this authority, not only for your sake, but also for those who suffer you and for those who make the same mistakes with you. You're all from the same mile. You, Minister, have visited this Serbian government in nine years' time, all that could have been visited and hacked wherever it could have been hacked. You've made us change your laws here, join you in the Ministry of Economy tourism, I'm surprised there's something else you haven't thought of, just because you're personally interested in it; that we're changing the Chamber of Commerce Act, because you're personally interested in the property of the Chamber of Commerce. Otherwise, you don't care about production, about a chamber representing manufacturers. You haven't even read it in books, you don't know anything about what a working day looks like in a factory or in a field, you don't know anything about it. You're waiting for someone to produce in your field, in your factory, and that's what you're up to. You're wasting a lot of sense. Our representative will continue, there's plenty of time left. I just want to say that I'm very glad that when you show up at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there are no journalists here, there are people who think you're doing well and much more of those who think you're not doing well, and they're not afraid that you're going to send them various inspections, that you're going to shut them down, that you're going to deny them the right to have their employees do jobs on the same terms as others. When that system of governance ends that you introduced when you broke into the People's Bank with a rifle, maybe Serbia can expect something good. By then, you'll be the chief commander of the parade. These big ones are going through their noses, through their clenched teeth to talk about you, like someone who's greatly exhausted them, I mean embarrassed you, but they're still taking you on their lists, like you've blackmailed them. We will be against all the laws that Mladjan Dinkic will defend in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17389	This concludes the morning part of the work. I'm setting a break of an hour, based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We'll continue work at 15.05 hours. Representatives, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, who have not applied their right and, of course, the proposing representative, may still come forward, after which we will move to the debate, and by order of the MPs and the application for a word in the joint principled search. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin work in the afternoon session. In the morning we have stopped in the debate under Article 142 – the presidents, the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups have the right to speak, and, of course, the proposing act on the agenda. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want to use the word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17391	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, Mr Petkovic, I would use the remaining time within the SNS parliamentary group to take advantage of the four-point agenda within the framework of this set of laws, closer to the issue of the tourism bill. I am sorry that Mr Dinkic is not present in the O.R. at the moment, given the questions I will ask in this part of the exhibition. I hope Mr. Petkovic, State Secretary for Tourism, will give an explanation. Otherwise, I come from southwestern Serbia, a region which nearly a year and a half ago formed a tourist organisation of the Western Serbia region. In practice, we have shown in this space, or destination, that tourism like this can function. In this area a master tourism development plan for Tara and Zlatibor and Zlatar area is developed and functioning, which does not mean that there are no other tourist destinations in this area that deserve attention. I must stress that tourism, otherwise the English word... And that the first organized journey took place in 1841, organized by Thomas Cook. What am I bringing this up for? I express for the reasons that the competent Serbian institutions and ministries have been acting disorganised in the last few years than Thomas Cook in 1841 and in terms of tourism, the English and the English are being made by the competent ministries and institutions, and should at least start acting like English. I want to remind the public that already, these days, after the likely passing of this proposal of the tourism law, the old tourism law was passed four years ago, i.e. In 2005, there was the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services in June and that the wish of all Serbian tourist workers was that there was a tourism ministry. Unfortunately, now, after four years, we only have the Secretary of State and the tourism sector in the small Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. On June 2005 – since my predecessors had already talked about it, I only want to clarify some things to remind you and the public – the Zagreb consulting agency "Horvat Consuling" won a tender that was publicly called, neatly called, the right to create a strategy for the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia for a period of importance from 2005 to 2015. Here one of my predecessors mentioned a renowned house from Zagreb that allegedly dealt with the production of a large number of master plans and tourism development strategies for some countries. That's not true. It's a section of a big house based in America, so it's a Zagreb representation, and in these surrounding areas, this mentioned house was only about developing our country's strategy, developing an Istrian area strategy and developing a strategy of Dalmatia, so there are no recognizable successes in all of this. Why am I saying this? Because of all the problems during this period, public debate has been organised (meaning, this story has a good side of medals), where tourist workers have literally made a rebellion on this subject despite the "Horvat consulting" and Professor Stipe Lovrete from the Faculty of Economics, in the development strategy, master of the development plan for tourism of the Republic of Serbia by 2015, another part of the prominent tourist workers, and above all teachers from the Faculty of Economics, "Singidunum", the Faculty of Sremska Kamenica, etc. This was necessary because the project's initial proposal showed that the mentioned house does not know enough about the situation on the Serbian market, nor recognizes what should be national, i.e. tourism brand, as well as tourism products that must inevitably be based on our experiences in order to be recognizable to all tourists. After a year of public debate and drafting of this document, this document was adopted, which was adopted in its phase report on 163 pages... For this reason, I cite an example of the country in the environment: in 2004, the Republic of Croatia had over eight million ino-tourists, and their strategic document for the period of importance from 2005 to 2010, i.e. For five years, it wasn't this house, it was Mac Kinsey. What did this project contain? He contained a strategy for the development of Croatian tourism for the period from five years to 39 pages, and our mentioned phase report on tourism development was on the whole 163 sides and mainly dealt with criticism of Serbian tourism and presented Serbian tourism as disastrous. I must mention that according to the document mentioned, and from the opening statement you have seen my intentions and according to amendments submitted by the SNS parliamentary group, Serbia's tourism is divided into four regions, i.e. parts, etc. Cluster: Belgrade cluster, southwest cluster, Southeast Serbian cluster and Vojvodina cluster; no moment, no matter who was in power at the time, neither the tourist potential nor the territory of AP Kosovo nor Metohija is mentioned. The whole strategic document states that there are insufficient personnel in Serbia, that there is not enough knowledge, that there is not enough experience. Belgrade and Danube are cited as the most important components of tourism development, and bathrooms, mountains and rural tourism are completely forgotten, as undeveloped areas that can attract ino-guests. We have statistics and we take care of it and we know that out of the total number of arrivals and overnight stays in Serbian tourism 87% of the waste on domestic tourism, and this law and this strategy have not given enough space and importance to the domestic guest. Statistics show that in this part we have to deal with our guests the most. I sincerely hope that there will be a situation where our big cities, not because the vacation started and the residents didn't go on vacations, but because some tourists came to these places, will be visited and full. Then comes the master plans, 11 of them, including the master destination plan from which I come, i.e. Master's Tourism Development Plan Zlatibor-Zlatar; each of these master plans is set out from the Republic of Serbia's budget from 60,000 to 100,000 euros. I must point out, let's say, that the development project for the Palic tourism has cost about 80,000 euros... (President: People's Parliament, the time at your disposal has been used. ) Thank you very much. I'll continue in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17392	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Marina Ragus, authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17393	Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the ministry, Mrs Kalanovic, I expected Mr Dinkic, who was there during the afternoon session, because I have a problem again, seems to me that you are not exactly the right address for a bunch of questions I have to ask, especially Mr Dinkic. I was hoping to get some answers from the author of the "Economics of Destruction", especially regarding the state of the Serbian economy. Okay, what's there? I'm sure you'll pass on those dilemmas that you think the public in Serbia should get an answer. The SRS parliamentary group, which I represent during this session, will make an effort to explain some of the concerns in today's debate on this agenda in terms of implementing the proposed set of laws. As we have asked for all other laws, what we are particularly interested in is whether the proposal for a tourism law, once adopted, will apply to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? What is of particular importance to the SRS is the enforceability of a set of laws in practice, in which you will improve concrete tourism or external trade and what this will mean for the lives of ordinary people who are trying to survive in Serbia, as well as the answer to the question of what kind of state we are, whether any of these laws will be implemented on the part of Kosovo and Metohija. In this sense, we can talk about religious tourism that is completely, perhaps too harsh, but largely neglected in Serbia's territory, especially in Kosovo and Metohija. There is evidence of our eternal spirituality, tradition, and religion. Our saints are not available to us. We must apply to those who have placed Serbia under the protectorate so that we can pay tribute to religious holidays and bow down to the bridge of the holy non-deficient line. That is why we would like to hear what in this context the Resorient Ministry has planned and how it thinks about improving certain parts that are protected by the UN as monuments of spirituality and culture. This will answer the question and many dilemmas whether the state is implementing its prerogatives integrally on the integrity of its territory and what a future this country is waiting for. Since we do not all live in another country, this is, at least most of us, the only country in which we can live and stand as full creative persons, what you should answer us is – what was waiting for us to invest in tourism and a strategy related to the development of tourism in Serbia's territory? Why did the state not favour domestic tourism, why are all these facilities in the context of spas, villages, mountains neglected and devastated in such a way that they now need huge financial resources to bring this into some kind of purpose? I hope that we will get an answer as to how much this will cost all of us and how the state thinks to implement the proposed legislative solutions in the context of the proposal for a tourism law. What we're particularly interested in, what we're going to talk about in particular, that's what I'm telling you, that's the part that concerns the right to an obstacle to buying. We think that there can be some monopolisation in relation to Serbia's public well-being, which overly needs to be protected from any kind of devasting and obtaining enormous capital in favour of citizens' damage. It will be a special topic that I will only announce now, and which we will deal with through concrete examples during the debate in particular. Then we should believe that there are really control mechanisms by the state, which obviously, the next example of all the countries that have fallen into a terrible financial crisis, are carrying out such a well-known process of ethics, so it centralizes and exercises its power in all the areas, because the moment requires it. There is nothing disputed, however, what we have a problem with is irregularities. So, for a lot of reasons, we are expressing our suspicion, that is to say, we want to set up exactly this particular dilemma, which we hope you're going to argue to break it, which is the following: the state's network with certain financial centres of power and abuse in the implementation of projects. Here you need to answer what you are doing specifically when you come across, for example, capital and monopoly, and the proposal for a tourism law. We will ask you a concrete question: who rules Serbia, which families rule Serbia and who stands behind certain capital, and thus creates political life in Serbia and directly affects the political scene in Serbia? Since you already have the opportunity to participate in this debate, you know that I like to speak in concrete contexts, with concrete examples. In front of me is a report by the Council on Combating Corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the concentration of ownership, for example, in the company "Luka Belgrade". This is a report that proves a monopoly by two powerful, conditional, branches. We think the centers of power are out of this country and behind them. It's about Mr. Miskovic and Mr. Beck. We will present this to the Serbian public, which is absolutely not aware of the existence of this anti-corruption Council report, as an example of the state's capital scheme and certain influences of financial centres, to be able to make political decisions in the state of Serbia. Then we'll also ask you to answer how the state will answer this. An urgent response is necessary, because this example of the report on the concentration of ownership in the company "Luka Belgrade" sends us only one message: that Serbia is becoming a very unstable place, where, in favour of certain families and certain monopolies, only one is actually rich at the expense of Serbia's citizens' well-being. Given that we represent the interests of citizens of the Serbian state here, we will, during this afternoon, make it very clear and loud that every name we consider to be related to certain political circles that exercise power in the state of Serbia and which are working "for the benefit of" Serbian citizens. Also, it will be just one aspect that should testify and prove to the end the economy of destruction that has been implemented since 2000, with the help of significant financial centres of power within the international community. We will also, at the end of this debate, ask you whose interests the regime is conducting in Serbia. We will succeed, I think, to prove that the interests of the Serb people are not implemented. What may be your good intentions that you are proposing with this package of legal solutions deny you in practice: the growing number of jobs, the economy is not working, there are no domestic development banks, Serbia has entered the recession, there is an increasing number of unemployed citizens, who are increasingly burdened with taxes, to replace the gaps in the billion-euro budget. It's the state of today. I hope that right through dialogue, because this is the only way we will try, conditionally speaking, to present to the citizens the picture they voted for and what they should hope for, to come up with concrete answers and remove all the dilemmas or to confirm exactly what the SRS has been talking about for a number of months. In particular, in this time foreseen for the SRS Parliamentary Group, we will pay attention to certain legal solutions that you have offered, and we believe that they should be promoted to certain amendments. We hope that by the end of the day and possibly during tomorrow afternoon, at least we can start certain topics and all of us will look together in the direction that should be in favor of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17394	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17395	Mrs. Komic, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which actually refers to the way in which the session is held. In the afternoon part, I pointed out the violation of Article 103 when you rudely interrupted MP Zoran Ostojić in using the right to replication by claiming that the MP mentioned the Kopalnik in his previous presentation. Now I've taken stenographic notes, absolutely no mention of the Bather. I didn't answer just to point out that mistake of yours. I think it's good, for future debates and the way you conduct the session, you know... And you have a long experience, and I'm not happy to tell you, because you've been my associate, that you don't know that when you use the right to reply doesn't take care of the subject of the agenda. Your authority is only to take care of the weather and whether the MP uses some offensive words and expressions. You also rudely turned off the microphone to your fellow vice president who called for article 31. I don't think that's nice. The only thing you said rightly was that you needed to listen carefully to the exhibit, and by claiming that the MP was talking about Kopalnik, and he was actually talking about the nature park of Mokra Gora, and what the minister absolutely didn't respond to, you actually confirmed that you didn't even listen well to what the MP was saying. Please do not make such mistakes in the future and apologize to Mrs. Judith, and to Mr. Ostojić and to me. Pre-grateful.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17396	There's no violation of Article 27, for two reasons. The right to a replica is not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, the replica MP gets a discretionary ruling from the chairman who appreciates whether he has the right to reply or not. It's a position that's clear in the Rules of Procedure. There can be no harm to the Rules of Procedure in saying that the chairman was wrong, she was wrong in giving rights to a replica. Interrupting a MP can only be the chairman. If you wanted to point out that the way the MP was interrupted is a violation of Article 27, that is an injury that can go to a statement and to a vote in the day of the vote, and that will be decided by the National Assembly. In your previous report, you have practically said the same injury, but under another member. Your proposal for an apology is no problem for me, and I would like to apologize that the MPs Judita Popovic and Natasa Micic are right, but they are not. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Rade Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17397	I'm sorry, Madam Vice President, I've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not as an authorised representative, I assume it's a technical error. At the beginning of the session, you informed us that the authorised representatives for this set of extremely important laws were Mr Mladjan Dinkic and Mrs Jasna Matic and that the government authorised them. We didn't get the notice during the session that the government also authorised Ms. Verica Kalanovic. I have no doubt that she is an expert in these laws, I know how long she's been dealing with it, it's a matter of procedure, I assume you haven't multiplied the authority for Mrs Kalanovic as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17398	Thank you. You're absolutely right. That was said and I will ask the service to inform us if there is authority, I have no doubt that it exists, and for Minister Verica Kalanovic. You'll be delivered as soon as possible. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: New Serbia, LDP, SPS-JS, Forward Serbia, DSS, G17 plus, SRS and ZES. We are moving to part of the debate by application for a word and by order of the MPs in a joint general search on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 22, 23, 24 and 25 of the agenda. The word is a folk letter from Alexander Ilic, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Slobodan Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17399	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, the tourism law, among other things, regulates the conditions, the way in which tourism is planned and developed, as well as the tourism organisations to promote tourism, which I intend to talk about. With Serbia very loudly promoting its intention to become a tourist country, i.e. to develop tourism as an economic branch of the future, the adoption of this law is more than necessary. In this regard, the new Serbia has submitted a significant number of amendments, in order to make this bill, which we have a lot of objections, better and more acceptable. As it has been practice so far, the amendments of the NS MPs have been adopted in most of the laws, and we hope that we will now make a good contribution to improving the tourism law. One of the major flows of the modern European cultural community is the redistribution of the population from the city to the village. For years, we have had the reverse process, because by our wrong policy, since the famous agricultural reform and even more famous sudden industrialization, from a rich agricultural country with rich natural resources, we have become a poor and undeveloped industrial country. By establishing the right criteria and values, we finally realized that this society should repay the village and correct all the injustices that the village has faced for years and still faces. Villages in Serbia are our greatest chance for a better standard, based on agricultural production as the most important strategic branches and tourism as our biggest perspective in the period ahead. Country tourism is Serbia's future. Unfortunately, we are still not aware of it, and those who are not aware of it are not even interested. In the right place, I mean politicians and the media. That is why it is necessary for the government to deal with, in the context of the resolution ministry, questions: can Serbia benefit from this type of tourism, and how much; is this village being accelerated in its development; does the users of this type of tourism provide a vacation in the conditions necessary for the psychophysical health of people from urban areas; how to attract a large number of foreigners, especially our people from the diaspora; how many jobs does it truly open in this way? It's the only thing the government will keep young in the country. As part of the development of rural tourism, special attention should be paid to our people abroad, who will present through the offer all the beauty of our village, and in particular stimulates the arrival of young people born abroad, in order to get acquainted with their homeland, customs, history and culture, in one word, with their roots. This project must, through an increased number of actions, and in particular by material assistance from the Government, be more and more promoted in our diaspora, through which it will meet citizens of other countries about the opportunities and benefits provided by this type of tourism. Representatives of Serbia's tourism economy invited tourists and investors to come to Serbia and its tourist centres on the international tourism market in Berlin. This year is expected to be particularly successful for Serbian tourism due to the maintenance of the University, as well as the growing popularity of the "Exita" and Guce. A rural tourism should be promoted, which can be a major challenge for a stranger precisely for the reasons mentioned and which favour such a type of tourism. Serbian rural tourism can and should be a world tourist hit, especially in current world economic hardships and crises. There are all conditions for creating a Serbian tourist brand and we must not miss that chance, as we have done before because of disagreement, stubbornness, potential, local and personal interests. Untouched nature, clean air and water, domestic food and the hospitality of peasants are a recognizable potential that lies in the development of rural tourism. The escape from everyday life and stress that brings urban lifestyle, smog, exhaust gases, too many people, restaurants, noises and even crowds to a natural environment of clean climate, domestic and healthy food and drinks, along with a melodious bird cricket, becomes a need for a man to establish a psychophysical balance. Rural tourism should contribute to the preservation of the rural environment and cultural heritage, but also to economically disrupting the local population to stay there, creating conditions for a comfortable life and greater opportunity for the production of agricultural goods, with the use of modern technology. I come from Zlatibor County, where rural tourism has been brought to life. It is a region where there are exceptional predispositions for the further development of rural tourism, in which a much larger expansion may occur due to climate and exceptional conditions for this branch of economy. There has been a development of this tourist area with the famous ethnosela Sirogojno, the ethno-park Terzića ulija in Zlakusa near Užica, with a famous and under-experienced, Potpečko cave nearby, Zlatibor villages, villages in the vicinity and on the slopes of Mount Tara, Kosjerić with nearby villages and rich offer, so as not to list further. I don't mind all the hardworking hosts, and in Zlatibor County, they're all the ones I didn't mention. It is indisputable that certain results have been achieved and that have started with the development of rural tourism, but according to existing predisposition, it is insufficient. In addition to the incomparably greater material investment in this type of tourism, there are other ways of contributing to faster development and greater interest in paying particular attention to the categorisation of rural households that must be unique and clearly defined. The stay tax for guests in the village should be much lower than the stay tax for guests in larger tourist centres and cities. For facilities which are dedicated to providing services in rural tourism, a fee for municipal land equipment and obtaining a permit should be abolished, whose price is now extremely large and detimulative. These are just examples where society can further help develop rural tourism. In order for all of our natural predispositions to be used, it is necessary that all our villages that have conditions for the reception of tourists are properly prepared. They need support from the government, the resolution ministry, logistics in the form of a national strategy. We must understand that rural tourism is a production tourism in which tourism organizer and service provider is a single entity, and in particular it should highlight the fact that the entire income from this type of tourism remains in the country, which should be another reason for this type of tourism to be given special attention and that the same priority in the development of tourism in general in this country. In addition to the need for greater development and greater investment in rural tourism, which will return multiple material resources, the need for greater development of sports tourism, which needs a completely new approach to planning and functioning, is also needed, as sports tourism is one of the modern trends in tourism. Today, there is no government in the world that has not recognized the importance of tourism and sports as phenomena that have marked the 20th century. Sportsmen today are the best ambassadors of one nation, because the biggest competition is followed by millions of viewers through mass media around the world. In addition, investment in development and affirmation of sports results in multiple savings in other sectors, primarily in the health sector and social ageing. The development of sports tourism in our conditions would contribute significantly to the development and improvement of sport itself. Through co-operation with the tourism economy and providing services to tourists trainers, instructors, guides, rescuers, sports clubs could in a good way always solve the current problem of their own funding. Zlatibor and other major tourist centres have recognised the importance of developing sports tourism. It's done a lot in that direction, but it's safe to say that no existing natural resources have been fully exploited. I also want to say a few words about Banja tourism, which must also be given special attention in development and planning. Banje and Serbia's climate places have a long tradition. A milestone in the development of Banjska tourism was the Law on Sanitation and the Conservation of People's Health, adopted in 1881, during the rule of Milan Obrenovic. Serbia today has 49 active spas and natural spas, where there is a full expression of the Banja-recreative tourism economy. Serbia's baths are rich in thermal mineral waters, which are used in their composition to treat almost all diseases. Bathing enables the prevention of disease, treatment, maintenance of psychophysical condition, sports activities and many other benefits. There must be a lot of work to be done on the global presentation of the Ban offer and attract foreign tourists, because with greater engagement and investment we can become much more attractive and attractive, which will also be paid multiple times. We also need to follow the world's trends in the offer. These are the three areas of tourism that we must pay special attention to at the moment, because all three are productive and are suitable for development, given our natural resources, whose level of exploitation must be raised to a level of satisfactory economic viability.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17400	Before I give my word to the next speaker, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85(5), that we will be working today after 18 hours, we will continue the debate on the point that is on the agenda at that moment. I think the service has consulted the MPs, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, because it's a really short period of time that we're missing to end the debate in principle, so I don't think it's going to be longer than 19 hours. The People's Messenger, Slobodan Maraš, has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people, Đorđe Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17401	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, is not ours, Madam Chairman, only the time of the problem, is our problem, and that the minister who is authorized by the government to sit here is not present, namely Minister Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister, Supreme Skier, etc. Ms. Kalanovic is certainly an expert on this area, but she is not the one who can give us answers to the questions the minister himself opened during the debate. I heard earlier when Mrs. Secretary spoke to a colleague from the SRS and said that Mr. Secretary would be here in half an hour. It's been half an hour, and I'm really sorry the minister isn't here. I wanted to talk about some things that are related, among other things, to this law of course. I would like to remind at least colleagues from the ministry, colleagues of Minister Dinkic who are sitting with him at the ministry, that he is one of your tourist organizations 12. 5. In 2008, she sent a letter. The letter said they were familiar with the preparation of a new tourism law and were interested in when the ministry would publish official information on it and invite all interested entities to make their proposals and suggestions. Day 19. 5. you answer them and say: "As far as the Tourism Act is concerned, the public will be informed of all activities related to the making of its amendments and the additions to be carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation. The planned changes to the Tourism Act concerning the status of local tourism organisations will be based on the Tourism Strategy. "Of course no public debate on this issue has been held, nor has any of the over 100 tourist organisations been invited to talk. You, ministry gentlemen, have held seven workshops throughout Serbia, with 290 participants, in order to analyse the current state of tourism. You have held 14 talks with tourism representatives of relevant institutions, as well as with health, culture and science and the environment. I'll ask you a little later why you didn't speak to the Ministry of Education, or Minister Obradovic, for a very specific reason. I suppose these 760 respondents you caught at the borders were not satisfied with the services offered in Serbia, but probably nothing was clear to them because they came from Europe (those coming from Europe) to a country located in Europe and needed a visa, coming to a destroyed country. I suppose for that reason there was dissatisfaction, but not with the service offered. Why did I mention Minister Obradovic and the Ministry of Education? The Association of Hotels and Restaurants of Serbia "Hores", the Association of Ban and Climate Places of Serbia (UBKMS), as well as the JUTA addressed you several times, and addressed your ministry, as well as the Ministry of Education, with an initiative to supplement and amend the Education and Education Regulations. For what? Minister Obradovic signed a rule where he predicted that the teaching section in nature was deleted and deleted. JUTA and these two organizations that I mentioned in the letter, which they tried to correspondence with you and eventually received the answer that it would be considered, but none of it was done, pointed to some very important things: yes, according to experiences and research on the current social map of the Serbian population, more than 85% of parents can take their children to the spa, to summers or winters for more than seven days. Let's say that the price of 2,500 dinars per person, four persons, seven days, 7.0000 dinars. This means that 85% of families in Serbia, and above all their children, only with the help of schools, specialised agencies and facilities built for these purposes can stay in climate places and thus achieve the above educational, social, health and any other goal. I must remind you that after World War II, there has been a tendency, and it has been continued over the last 30 years, that certain objects are systematically engaged in organising the stay of children in nature, so in the last 30 years, and a large number of hotels have adapted their facilities for these purposes. I'll read you the following information. Several major destinations, in which facilities in continuity have been realised for many years, a program of teaching in nature: Zlatibor - 17 objects, 1,800 beds and 350 employees, Divčibare, Tara, Rudnik, Goč, Sokobanja, Vrnjačka Banja, Ivanjica, Fruška gora etc. Only these few, meaning a dozen seats, have a capacity of 9,500 beds and more than 1,835 employees. Since Minister Obradovic thought he was erasing himself and your government nominated, teaching in nature, we come to a figure, when we take those who work in tourist organisations, those who teach in nature, traffic companies, etc., that about 3,300 workers can be left without work and personal income. What's more important? In this way VAT will be reduced to accommodation and transport services, it was calculated, by around 400,000 dinars per year, tax cuts and profit-based contributions amounted to over 550,000. I stress that I am sorry that Minister Dinkic is not there, because he predicted to hire millions of trainees in the coming period for a year, and people remain unemployed. This course in nature... I have to tell you from a personal example, I went to "Lettenka" and "Tester" on the Mount of France, generations before me went, my daughters are going now and from tomorrow on they won't be able to do it, and these are objects that, like other places, have been working for decades, and now someone's come up with it to get into some other hands. As you quickly came up with to change the Law on Chambers of Commerce, that is, these changes and additions, so someone quickly came up with something to materialize. In response, Mr. Dinkic said to Mr. Ostojic that no one had hoped that during the time since he was run by the ministry, that is, since his people ran the tourism sector, Riliv funds from three hundred and a few million dollars will jump to nearly a billion dollars. Here, he promises that in the next few years it could double. I wanted to ask him how it was possible to expect someone to believe him. He promised a thousand euros per share. I think every citizen in this country knows it was a colorful lie, not to use another word. He promised to export "fiata" to Russia. We would very much like it to happen, as well as these thousands of euros, but of course it will not happen, and it will not happen this extra billion dollars from tourism. The bottom line is that every time there is a choice, someone tries cheap demagogue to attract as many voters as possible to their side. I wouldn't be long longer. I'd just like to quote Mr. Dinkick one more time. Mr Dinkic has today, and you, the chairman, will allow me, mixed many topics as he spoke, talked about economic measures, about chambers of commerce and about the tourism law; among other things, at Mr Ostojić's remarks, which he did not criticise, as Mr Dinkic said, for criticism, but argued that we are pulling out this tourism law, or we are intruding the state, because he has to help, and when it comes to commercial chambers we are pulling out the state, the market will only decide on all this. Mr. Dinkic, I'd like to tell you - go to the market once, go to the elections yourself, and show the others, let's say, to the chambers of commerce, what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17402	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17403	We have a set of legislative proposals aimed at bringing Serbia closer to the World Trade Organisation, honouring the chairman-in-Office, respected Ministers Kalanovic, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The proposal for a tourism law, a bill on standardisation, a draft law on technical requirements for products and an assessment of compliance and a proposal for a law on foreign trade. The proposal for a tourism law should be pointed out, above all, follows the instructions of European laws and generalised commercial legislation in the world and, of course, brings more important newspapers. We are convinced that following the adoption of this legislative proposal, together with the development strategy in Serbia, basic frameworks will be established for a more comprehensive and comprehensive settlement of issues and relations in this area. We also believe that the most significant tourist potentials will be defined in a certain way and, in our opinion, the most important, and these are the activities of the competent authorities on promotions, in better organisation, in encouraging this activity. After the adoption of this law, a series of regulations will also be necessary to allow better regulation of tourist activity. We really want to believe that we will have a modern European law that will be an incentive, a stimulation, which, on the one hand, will be encouraging and supporting those who invest and want to invest in tourism, and on the other hand, sanctions for those who take priority positions, but simply do not work properly. First of all, I would like to say that this legislative proposal will allow the formation of a developmental tourism company or a corporation, whose task will be to realise tourist investment projects and which will have a crucial impact on the growth of the competitiveness of the Serbian tourist product. And it seems to me, this is a proposal from the Ministry of Trade and Tourism dating back a few years ago. Also, the legislative proposal envisions the introduction of a "one-stop shop" system to register those tourism operators. So, the records that have been kept so far at the Ministry of Economy will be transferred to the Agency for Economic Registers and will all be linked to the other registers. This will, of course, shorten time, facilitate use and significantly reduce registration costs. What I also want to point out as a positive is a series of minor legal improvements which, among other things, concern the insurance of users of services and compensation for costs. I think that for the first time in the law a term was introduced, certainly with the aim of avoiding in a certain way ambiguous interpretations. As far as the planning system for tourism activities is concerned, certain changes are envisaged here, which are in a better way in line with the process of planning space and protected natural and cultural goods. Regardless of what we consider to be a quality legislative proposal, we must also express dissatisfaction, and this could also be heard in today's debate, because of the lack of public debate in which hotelers and tourist agencies could present their proposals and suggestions. On the other hand, when it comes to this issue, we can be somewhat satisfied with the fact that seven workshops across Serbia with 190 participants have been held in order to analyse the current situation in tourism, as stated in the explanation of this legislative proposal, that 14 talks with representatives for tourism of relevant institutions, as well as with the Ministry of Health have been held and that a survey has been conducted among foreign visitors at border crossing points. I also wanted to say that the effects of the financial crisis will certainly be present in this area, i.e. it will affect the development of tourism, if we bear in mind the fact that it is actually a matter of activity that has been conditioned primarily by the payability, i.e. by the standard of living of citizens. We will have, apparently, after the adoption of this legislative proposal, a European law; we are talking about tourism as a perspective, as a development chance for Serbia, and I want to ask the question – are there any analyses made when it comes to tourism in Serbia, how much the effects of the crisis will have a positive or negative impact on tourism in Serbia, if we consider Serbia a European tourist destination and what does the Serbian Tourist Organisation specifically do? In an opening statement by Mr. Minister, some of the national priorities could be heard when it comes to mountains in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As an MP coming from Kolubar County, from the Valjev region, I have an obligation to ask the question of what is wrong with Mount Divcibara? I wish I hadn't heard correctly and it was my fault, but I don't think there's any Divcibar Mountain among those national priorities. Without disputing these priorities, I would like to ask a question – what are the criteria that the Divcibar mountains did not put in line with these priorities? When it comes to the proposal for a law on foreign trade, the newspaper that was included in this legislative proposal concerns, most of all, the precision of the terminology and the provisions relating to the licences. Imports, exports and transit of goods under an earlier application in accordance with the World Trade Organisation or the Agreement on the procedures for the issue of import licences. This legislative proposal will regulate only the basic provisions, while the new sublegal act, i.e. the regulation on procedures for issuing and using supervisory documents and licences, will regulate closer conditions for non-automatic and automatic authorisation, again in accordance with the abovementioned agreement with the World Trade Organisation. A newspaper that has not been provided for so far by current regulations, which is introduced by the adoption of this law, is a new categorization of automatic licensing and we find this extremely positive. As for the draft standardisation law, I would like to say that by adopting this legislative proposal, Serbia meets another requirement for membership in the World Trade Organisation and the EU. Otherwise, this law regulates the principles and objectives of standardisation, as set out in the legislative proposal itself, the organisation and operation of the national standardisation body, as well as the part concerning the adoption, publication and application of standards in the Republic of Serbia and related documents. Finally, I would like to reiterate the view of the SPS-JS Parliament Club that we are in principle in favour of all four legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17404	The word has been given by MP Otto Kishmarton, followed by MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17405	Today we are talking the most about tourism, probably because MPs recognized tourism as an important business branch. Tourism and agriculture are the economic branches that can provide this country with a significant source of foreign exchanges: agriculture with healthy food and tourism with numerous natural resources, such as cultural tourism, sports tourism and ethnic tourism. The MPs before me talked about it. That's all Serbia has in its offer, as far as tourism is concerned. However, we heard from the minister and a number of MPs that tourism is very disorganised with us, that it is at low levels compared to competitive countries. We'll hardly fix it with this law alone and tourism will take the place to take in this country. That takes a lot of work. I'd like to give an example in the middle of where I came from, from Kickinda. If we mention the kickinda, what's the name of the kickinda? First you'll think about the crep, "Toza Markovic," and that's it. However, Kickinda has many tourist sights and attractions that are little heard of, perhaps we are also to blame. We worked four years to make it available to citizens, all of these tourist attractions. The state would have to help local self-government, which is largely incompetent, uninterested in the development of tourism, confused, not knowing whether they came or should go. Some of the tourist attractions, which can only be seen in Kikinda, are half a million-year-old female mammoths; a skeleton of artificial material is made in natural size, which is exposed, and a three-dimensional film about the mammoth. It's something you can't see elsewhere in Europe, just in kickinda. It's not just a mammoth, there's a souvenir, where the horses turned the stone, and that's how the grain was grinded. We can see such a co-driver in one place in Hungary and Croatia. The kickback's the biggest. What's even more interesting, which is nowhere in the world but only in Kikinda, is the symposium "Terra", which has been held since 1972, which has been visited by vairies from more than 30 countries, 365 wair. This symposium is characterized by the production of large-format clay sculptures, which is not done anywhere in the world. According to this, Kikinda should be very famous in Serbia and become a tourist destination. As far as nature is concerned, next to Kikinda is the Mokrine where the habitat of a large droplet is located. It's the largest flying bird in Europe. Besides, from what nature has given us, we have a lake. The lake is natural, but the area around the lake is decorated. The lake is located in the center of the city, the rest of which was once a river passing through Kikinda. Around the lake are open and closed Olympic swimming pools, football field for big, small football, volleyball court, trim trails, athletic trail. There are exceptional conditions for sports tourism and recreational tourism. The World Cup in the Easter Eggs is held every year in Mokrin. The Mokrin is held every year and the geese fight. I want to say that such examples as Kikinda we have in many cities and villages across Serbia, and the state, government and ministry should work towards doing all this marketing, to help these municipalities, because by developing tourism in these municipalities, and agriculture that is closely linked to tourism, it will come to these places... Kikinda is a place near the border and every year we have 500 inhabitants less. Surely it is not our goal to increase the number of residents of Belgrade and Novi Sad, but to keep people in their cities. Through tourism, we would also help people stay in Kickinda and deal with tourism. The biggest problem with tourism is that there is no marketing in tourism, no accommodation. You currently do not have enough quality accommodation in Kickinda to accommodate only the bus guests. For now, both Kikinda and many other cities that have significant tourist attractions can be only places for a one-day vacation, a one-day trip. What we need, it's a good organization, good marketing, capable people, accommodation capacity, and the rest is given to Serbia by God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17406	The word is a folk letter from Svetlana Stojanovic, followed by a folk envoy, Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17407	Dear People's MPs, I want to talk only about one aspect of the tourism law, how to put cultural and artistic values in the role of tourism development. Cultural tourism, on the one hand, is the exit of culture to the tourist market. On the other hand, it involves the motivation of tourists to travel somewhere to see, experience, learn and understand culture, history and the way of life of the country they travel to. Cultural tourism is a powerful development area even today, during the global economic crisis. I quote, "I want culture to be our response to the global economic crisis," the president of France said. For Nikola Sarkozy, culture is, above all, a political tool to spread the influence of a country in the world. A report commissioned by the Jellysian Palace showed that ambitious cultural policy would have a decisive impact on the increase in tourism in France. If that is the case in France, there is no reason not to be in Serbia. The difference between Serbia and France is that we have not invested enough in our culture and tourism. A few years ago, the European Institute for Cultural Marbles, based in Luxembourg, was established. The task of this institute is to coordinate projects, provide technical assistance in their realization, collect the necessary documentation. The topic of cultural marches is that it covers more European countries and promotes European cultural values. A tourist in Serbia must also have someone to turn to when he wants to travel to a cultural march such as: churches and monasteries from Piroth to Zvonska Bana, or - archaeological sites, artist's studios in Kovacica, the Castle of Vojvodina. Only the joint forces of tourist operators, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, cultural institutions, economic operators and local self-government can develop tourism in general and cultural tourism in particular. Each tourist offer includes tourist facilities. However, only when these two sectors, tourism and culture, are linked to a common development policy will we in practice have cultural tourism. The link between tourism and cultural heritage is a recommendation from the Council of Europe on the promotion of tourism in order to improve cultural heritage as a factor in sustainable development. In its 2003 recommendation, the Council of Europe points out that cultural heritage is unique and irreplaceable, that protection of cultural heritage is part of the process of sustainable development, that cultural heritage is in itself more valuable than tourism, that losing the cultural identity of a nation is a serious danger, and that preserving the authenticity of all cultures is a priority. While the Council of Europe, in its recommendation, is concerned about how to protect European cultural heritage from resorting to tourists, we should be concerned about the extent to which we do not know how to use our heritage for tourist purposes. We see culture as beauty without purpose or value. Worse still, we see it exclusively as a consumer of blood-earned budget money. Culture that comes to the tourist market not only can return money to tourism infrastructure, but also increase and use it to improve culture. World experience has shown that the culture sector is among the sectors with the fastest growth rate. At the rate of growth, the cultural industry is among sectors such as finance and banking, information technology, service activities and tourism, of course. A dozen amendments linking tourism to culture have been submitted to the tourism law by the Democratic Party of Serbia. We'll discuss this in more detail when there's a discussion in detail. The use of culture for tourist purposes brings unquestionably economic gain. The revenue generated by tourism would have to be partly returned to the subjects responsible for the preservation of cultural heritage, whether it be the Republic, local self-government, cultural institutions or economic operators. Serbia is an old country. Our heritage is rich, too rich. Using it insufficiently and irrationally in tourism deprives ourselves of the possibilities for the world to see us differently than it does today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17408	The Messenger of the people, Vlajko Senic, has the word. After him is the messenger of the people, Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17409	Dear Mrs. Comic, honourable MPs, respected Mrs. Ministers, associates, I will only talk about the law on foreign trade. I can see that for speakers, it's a more interesting law on tourism, so I'll leave more time for them to discuss it. The law on foreign trade is a kind of indicator of the need for Serbia to take the final step towards full membership in the World Trade Organisation by adopting the law at the moment. I myself had the opportunity to participate in negotiations on Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation, and it seems to me that there is still no awareness here of how few countries remain outside of the World Trade Organisation, and on the other hand, how important formal membership in the World Trade Organisation is for our export economy, especially in these times when the worst effect of the global economic crisis is precisely on international trade. Practically, this agreement with the IMF that we hope to conclude in the first half of May, which we are saving our country's external liquidity... So we really need to look into the truth in the eyes, see how wide our country's external trade deficit is, how dramatically higher imports than exports are, how far it has been possible to cover in the previous eight years with loans that have been relatively favourable, foreign direct investments, how impossible it will be to cover in the next period. And what the government has adopted as its strategic task is that the deficit, or difference, is not greater than 5% on the mid-term. A necessary measure to achieve this goal is just the adoption of this law, later and full membership of Serbia in the World Trade Organisation. This will also make us formally obliged to take on some of the commitments that we have already made and I think it is important to stress now, regardless of the huge criticisms that are in the public presence, how important Serbia's decision to unilaterally apply the SAA, even though this year is difficult because of otherwise reduced budget revenues. In this way, we have sent a message from the EU, as our most significant external trade partner, that we are ready to accept these principles and that we will adapt our businesses fully to the conditions of world trade, so that tomorrow, when the decision is made (it exists after 2000) we will be ready. What is important is that citizens realize that long-term maintenance of deficits, i.e. imbalances between imports and exports, cannot withstand this country. It's billions and billions of dollars that we from external sources have to earn annually to keep that imbalance going. I mean, had it not been for these measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, had there not been a certain agreement with the IMF, that in 2008, 2009 and 2010, 8.5 billion euros would have been reduced foreign exchange reserves of this country and that we would likely have come into the shooting situation so-called. external liquidity. It is something that even happened to the old Yugoslavia in 1981, when at one point (it seems to me that it was just some fifth, sixth May 1981) was no longer able to serve its international obligations. Therefore, our country's export orientation, support for the Export Promotion Agency, better co-operation with foreign investors, full liberalisation of the external trade regime is something that is difficult to burden our economy, but what we already have in the mid-term must give us proper results. Because in terms of the world economy that may be better in a year and a half, but that will never be the way it was before the global economic crisis, when we will be in a far more difficult position for foreign money, for foreign funding, this economy must also become the maximum export orientation in the meantime. It is the only sustainable way and the only sustainable model that Serbia can move forward and develop. What is also to be said because of our citizens, because you often manipulate this topic of free exports and imports, that our country is not protected – even by this law, even by the provisions of the World Trade Organisation, you as a state have the right to safeguard the protection of your economy, therefore to anti-dumping measures, to compensatory measures, to safeguard against excessive imports, to measures that prevent excessive external trade deficits, and to this law in one way that is acceptable to the World Trade Organisation. The economy of Serbia and Serbia's government will be (to make Serbian citizens understand tomorrow) in a situation that if someone wants to export some goods to the Serbian market at a price lower than on the exporting country's parent market, they can "hit" (to say, to understand) the anti-dumping tax and thus collect imports, so that they can react to compensatory measures if the exporting country subsidises imports to Serbia, or exports to our market; that it can also react when excessive imports are such as to endanger the domestic industry and that it can react when our payment deficit is compromised. So, in addition to the benefits, revenues and everything that you receive from the World Trade Organisation gives you and opens up new opportunities to expand your exports, a legitimate defence policy of the state opens up. That's what I think citizens aren't sufficiently familiar with. So citizens are not sufficiently aware that the legitimate right in the most liberal economy today is to protect your country's interests. By adopting this law and by applying it and by joining the World Trade Organisation, we will get instruments and strengthen our exports and protect our market. These are very important concepts which, unfortunately, have been manipulated for political reasons so far. Market protection when our industry is threatened, realistically, not to protect the market in Serbia to maintain production of something that is not profitable even in Serbia itself, let alone in some EU market or other countries where we should export it. That is why this law is important, and I believe that the vast majority of the votes of MPs in the Assembly will be supported and that in this way we will create institutional conditions, as I said, that we are going to go to a more aggressive export policy in this country, to reduce the payment deficit and prepare ourselves for some future time that will be far more difficult than it was before 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17410	The word is a folk letter from Marina Ragush, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17411	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, we have announced... It's just hard for me to talk in the plural, but I represent a parliamentary group that's away, unfortunately, from this regular session and I can't say that today has again shown diversity in interpreting the rules of the Rules of Procedure. We have seen that MPs still have the possibility of replicating the minister's presentation, that they can normally get out of the assembly bench. If the radical had done it, I can imagine he'd probably have been warned, but good, what's there. According to this agenda item, Ms Natasa Jovanovic, Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic, Mirko Munjic and Nikola Savic were scheduled to present. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I will try to present them to the most worthy way. What we have mentioned today in the time foreseen for the authorised representative is the climate within which we are bringing the set, I suppose that ladies and gentlemen from the resolution ministry will agree, yet incompatible draft laws within one point, and therefore the other parliamentary groups are indeed deprived of one quality and qualified debate on such important laws. Honestly, I don't see a link between tourism and technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, etc. What's there is, so it's done and we can only agree to it, in the sense that we're going to talk about certain topics. As we discuss this set of economic laws, what was Mr Dinkic's exposure... I'm really expressing my handicap because Mr. Dinkic isn't here, we've prepared a bunch of questions for him. It was not meant to represent any kind of, conditionally, as he would call it, intellectual waiters, but an attempt to access adequate data, a fact that should convince us that the scenario of the collapse of the Serbian economy, i.e. the Serbian economy, is not, therefore, a good life in Serbia. What surprised me during his afternoon exposure is to express doubts about what will happen to a large community called the EU, in light of the major financial global crisis, and that we should turn to markets (until we come to the EU's turn) such as Russia, Belarus, etc. I suppose the Belarusian market for Mr Dinkic is extremely important because the Fiat wants to export its cars to the Belarusian market. We'll talk about that later. I almost couldn't believe that I was listening to Mr Dinkic, who is so committed to the EU's approach. I just have to remind myself that at the beginning of the Union's appearance, the SRS was for co-operation and otherwise it is for co-operation with all the integrations that Serbia sees as an equal partner, not as a protectorate to which a bunch of conditions will appear, mostly of political nature, which will throw Serbia at its feet. It's a real picture today. While we're talking about this, the pictures are working, I need to introduce you to some research published on April 13, 2009, which you should know. About 90 teenagers are killed every year in Serbia. It is estimated that as many as 100 or 150 times as many have suicidal tendencies, i.e. between 9,000 and 13,500 young people fall into potential suicides. This was published on the basis of research by the newly-sad centre "Serce", a volunteer NGO dealing with suicide prevention and emotional support for people in crisis. Why am I saying this? Because a special effect on poor mental health in such a young population will have an effect on the global financial crisis that the state of Serbia has fallen into. Among other things, a third of the high school population is said to show signs of mental suffering, mental problems. Similar data were obtained from studies of the student population. We had, as much as on one television last night, a terrible example – during the afternoon session I was saying it, and I will regularly mention it, because I think it is the most dramatic picture in Serbia – an example of a student who graduated from a college of medicine with a large average and has to finish high school in order to leave the country and find a job in Western European democracies countries. As I said in the afternoon session, and I think you'll all agree, that's where all the other arguments fall into the water. Let's continue with this research, which is very important. The public should know, and we should all keep that in mind, so last year the suicide rate in Serbia was 18 people per 100,000 people, which is why we are above the global and European average. Vojvodina has been ahead of suicide in the last 20 years, with 28 suicides per 100,000 inhabitants. Of course, experts are also consulted, among other things, their forecasts are very dark and very pessimistic when it comes to the effects of the financial crisis. This rate, which is very dramatic for Serbia, therefore, that 10,000 young people think about suicide on 13 April 2009, should be a dangerous indicator of what kind of society we live in. I guess all of this comes to mind when politics are made in Serbia. Mr. Dinkich, welcome. I have finally welcomed to see you and possibly ask a solid number of questions about everything that is the creation of economic policy in Serbia, and thus the impact on the economic and social security of every citizen in the state of Serbia. What I would particularly care about is why certain laws have not passed, and even the people of the ruling coalition testify about it, public debate? Therefore, it is not open to a broader debate to bring about a better draft or draft law. For example, the proposal for a chamber law, under which it is expected to change the chamber system that has traditionally lasted more than 150 years. What comes from the chamber is that it is about taking on significant assets that the chambers have in the state of Serbia. On the other hand, the fact, it was also heard on the Committee that the proposal for a tourism law had not passed a public debate either. Honestly, in light of the apprehensive scales of the global financial crisis announced, it is not clear why they are in such a hurry with those laws, for example, the draft chamber law should come into force in 2013, and we are discussing an emergency procedure today rather than hearing about the government's measures today. There is some concern, and it concerns the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Among others, one of the priorities is to deal with corruption and organised crime. This is the assumption of every discussion on these 49 points of the agenda of this regular session, because it is a very big misunderstanding that a set of proposed laws will be implemented in a society that has so much been hampered by corruption and crime. I'd like you to answer, first, if you've consulted the ministers when you've set 26% reduction in budget positions for certain resolution ministries. We are trying to understand how the government functions and we see the totally conflicting views of the Serbian government's representatives. Among other things, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic and Serbia's first deputy prime minister, if I am not mistaken, warns that everything that is before him as a priority he will not be able to implement. He already has an enviable number of problems. One of these concerns human resources. He has over tens of thousands of people less to carry out daily activities. The question is how an organized crime deal will be conducted if that position is reduced. We also have a statement from the Minister for Infrastructure. Far from the SRS being satisfied with the results so far, but what is offered only speaks of your functioning within the ruling majority. The Minister of Infrastructure, in terms of reducing the budgetary position, reacted and said that he would resign because he would not be able to carry out activities that, for example, concern very important work, which is Corridor 10, for which we still cannot determine why this job did not start, and three loans await realisation, interest payments are regularly paid. What hit us in the media is the reaction of the Minister of Agriculture, who also says that a certain number of people had to fire, that agriculture would be in a very difficult situation; with current funds, without this budget cutting for this portfolio, could not implement the plan of activity, and this puts everything at risk. Also, what is not clear, and it brings us back to the initial situation, and it concerns to some extent the proposal for a tourism law, which I will deal with in a few minutes, is how do you think they are going to be implemented, especially the part that relates to the yarn of the purchase. We suspect that there will be many abuses, that the state of Serbia does not have the will to deal with monopolies, and then we ask you specifically: who actually manages Serbia and who has the claim to manage public goods in Serbia? In the time foreseen for authorised representatives, I have announced that I will present to the Serbian public, I think that the Serbian public has the right to know, the atmosphere and the political climate in Serbia in the context of which we are bringing about this number of laws that, I believe, you will convince us that it will bring a better life to the citizens of Serbia and that, how much next year, we will live happily, have our jobs and improve our standards. So, what's this about? A plastic example, which had little to say about, but a lot of concerns in the Serbian public, is a report on the concentration of ownership in the company "Luka Belgrade". It is a report by the Council on Combating Corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The report paints the state's relationship and the state's readiness to deal with corruption and, very possibly, organised crime, as conditions and political climate have been created that certain monopolies, in view of certain circles of government, rule and rule the Serbian market. Here's the thing. Let me just look at the specifics of this report, not because the SRS says so, but because it says the Council on Combating Corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So one of the dramatic examples, which experienced the light of the day in February of this year, which the public very little knows about, is only speculation, is the concentration of ownership carried out in the AD "Luka Belgrade" at the end of 2005. This example, which is why I am now paying full attention to this, with us creating an infidelity, in fact, being suspicious and we are concerned that such a thing will happen in the area of tourism in the state of Serbia and that this law is being made in favour of certain circles of power. Here's the thing. It's about characteristic secondary privatisation. To make it perfectly clear to the public what the process is, so the process of transferring actions from employees to the country's richest people, who definitely have good contact with politicians and state authorities because otherwise they would not be able to do so – in the secondary privatisation process, phantom companies from abroad (which are mainly capital-free companies and business incomes) are used to create public impressions that foreign investment is actually not the case. The purchase of shares, along with numerous malversions, is carried out by means of unknown origin. How is that possible, I'm asking you now? It is usually later that money trails lead to Cyprus and funds exported from the country in the 1990s. This is 2009, there really are all mechanisms, when you're in power, to determine the flow of money, the flow of politics, the tycoon, and there are certain answers. Why the state of Serbia didn't do it, I suppose you'll be able to say it as Deputy Prime Minister. The public in Serbia should know that if plans to build a business and housing space in the area of the current Belgrade port on the surrounding land, which is being fast-tracked, the profit of the new owner will be measured in billions of euros. In this sense, this case is unique and should encourage interest in the first place of the Serbian government and hear what concrete response is being made in relation to the Council for Combating Corruption, which was formed by the Government, to see if you really want to fight corruption or if these are just pre-election promises while on the other hand making a fantastic climate for certain oligarchs who should buy in Serbia all that remains. Therefore, the concentration of ownership takes place with us in very specific conditions where rules are not quite built, existing legal solutions in practice are not consistently respected. In particular, two elements appear to be expressed here, which are: the crucial influence of the political factor on economic developments and the fact that the country's capital plays a dominant role in the capital market. In fact, large capital is interested in achieving dominant participation in those companies that already have or can easily achieve a dominant position on the market, and the easiest way to achieve this goal is to ensure, through political influence, the first concentration of corporate ownership, then the dominant position on the market. This is from an official report by the Council on Combating Corruption of the Serbian Government on the situation that took place in 2005; in 2009, we have not heard a single reaction to this topic. Let me explain what this is about. The port of Belgrade has about 220 ha of land in the central city zone between the French street and the Pančeva Bridge. Belgrade's general plan until 2021 (has not changed, even if we don't know, checked, so we saw that it hasn't changed) at point 449 provides for Luka Belgrade to remain an economic zone, even planning its expansion. All three years after the adoption of the Belgrade General Plan, which prescribed the use of land until 2021, the Building Land and Construction Directorate of Belgrade issued a public call on 27 December 2006 for a previous justification study with a general project for a new mechanised cargo port in Belgrade. This is very important because there is a very plastic way of describing the obvious corruption and abuse of power here. The public call came after Luke Belgrade took action in September 2005. It's obvious that the land's purpose has been previously agreed. We don't know how and I'd like to hear it. Transfer of the port, and the Ordered Study Directorate should justify and implement the agreement reached. So, although the urban plan has not been amended, no decision has been taken to change the purpose of land and move the port, a new port project was presented in November 2007, and it was then said to the General Urban Plan until 2021 and the master plan of Serbia's waterways until 2025 to build a new freight port in the Danube. On 9 September 2005, the Securities Commission approved the Worldfin offer from Luxembourg to take over Luke Belgrade. The offer was made through the brokerage-dealer company "M&V Investments" from Novi Sad, and to remind you, it was the same society that participated in the purchase of C Market shares. The text of the offer is published in the daily newspaper next day. It was open until September 30th; according to her, the ransom price of one action is 800 dinars. On 21 September, the Management Board of Enterprises addressed shareholders via ad. It has been stated that the estimated value of Luke Belgrade's capital is under way. Since the fair value is greater than bookkeeping, the Management Board has advised shareholders to wait until 23 September and that, after the expiry of that deadline, depending on whether or not there are other competitive offers, they decide to deposit for sale or not to deposit their shares. I will try to specify only certain moments that I think will be clear to people how privatisation is actually conducted here and how huge capital concentrates in the hands of a few people in the state of Serbia, so I will skip certain chronological details. By September 23rd, no competitive offer (that's how it usually works), shareholders deposited their actions; the Institute delivered its findings 27, which suggests that the value of one action is 1,774 dinar. On the same day, the Privatisation Agency decided to accept the takeover bid and issue a warrant to the Action Fund to sell the shares in its possession, which is 41% of the shares. The takeover bid succeeded and Worldfin came into possession of 93% of Luke Belgrade's actions. The price for the action that was paid was 800 dinars. The buyer of shares, the company "Worldfin" from Luxembourg, was registered at Rue d'Arlon, as well as the company "Novafin", which was later owned by C Market. In his offer to take over "Worldfin", the company is newly formed and therefore there are no balances or other financial reports. An even more frantic fact: according to a decision to enter the court register, the value of the company's capital is 31,000 euros. Therefore, the company has no participation in the underlying capital of other legal entities. The first question raised here is how it is possible that a company that has a capital of 31,000 euros, is not connected to other legal entities, can pay almost 40,000,000 euros for actions. Almost in the same period, at the end of 2005, the actions of small shareholders "Ce Market" were bought in the same way, almost identical. The shares were bought by a company that had no traffic or property, except for a minimum founding capital, and paid 44,000 euros! In both cases, it is obvious that the shares were purchased for the account of another buyer who remained in the shadows. The question arises as to how the Committee for Papers of Value overlooked these facts and did it really overlook them, or why did it not react to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering? Why has the Commission approved the takeover offer, even though it finds it contradictory? On the one hand, the bidder points out that it does not possess information on whether an asset or capital assessment has been carried out and that there is no other relevant information on the stock company known to the bidder. On the other hand, the bidder states that he was in contact with the management of the company. The unreal assumption is that people from the administration in contact with a potential buyer have kept the bookkeeping value too low and that the revaluation process is under way. The second information that falls into the eyes is that the company "Worldfin" is registered at the same address as the company "Novafin" that came into possession of the trade chain "Ce Market". That it is not a mere coincidence is clear from the testimony of Mr. Milan Bek in the case against Slobodan Radulovic in the special department of the Belgrade District Court. The witness then announced that the company "Novafin" was designed for that purpose, and that in this business they are making special purpose companies and then you are not close to their names, it is removed from the drawer, according to Mr. Beck. On that occasion, the witness further said he was managing a number of such companies, calling them "shells", which do not have any traffic, but are already serving to do a specific job. The company's "Novafin" concrete job was to buy out the "Ce Market" stock, and for "Worldfin", according to it, the only job was to buy out Luke Belgrade. So here is the fundamental question that no state body responds to the public use of phantom companies. I can't believe I'm talking about this this way; this was in 2005, and we're talking about it in 2009, based on a report by the Council on Combating Corruption of the Serbian Government. We are talking about a set of economic laws that should improve the economy in the state of Serbia and mitigate the effects of the financial crisis, and we have a visible shift between tycoon and certain power circles in the Serbian government that directly influence the creation of a political scene and politics in Serbia. This is concrete evidence. We don't have any reaction to those who are owned to react on this matter. So much for the government's relationship to organised crime and corruption. In both cases, shareholders were paid a significantly lower price of fair value shares. More than that concerns the fact that it was done for the account and in the interest of the owners who remained undeclared. In the case of C Market, the Competition Protection Commission found that the actions were bought for the benefit of Hemside Trading from Cyprus, which is the owner of the Delta holding company, which achieved a dominant position, i.e. A monopoly of that company in the retail trade on small food products. In the case of Luke Belgrade, the ultimate owner has not yet been officially established. Certainly, given the bitter facts, the assumption is that it is the same owner. In the first case, the majority owner of the retail monopoly is, in the second case, the largest part of the free city building land in downtown Belgrade. This is very important for the Serbian public. I know Mr. Dinkic knows all this very well. The logical question arises as to why no state body, or any official at a republican or local level, has established the creation of a monopoly that overgrown the frameworks of individual economic branches. So how do you explain the synchronised activity of state bodies, stockholders and company management in the purchase of shares, i.e. the concentration of ownership in Lucy Belgrade? What is very important is the following – we actually have Mr. Bek and Mr. Miskovic as potential owners of Serbia, and on the other hand, which is also very significant, we have no response from the Serbian government to what the anti-corruption council is talking about. So what is more than now and openly is on the ninth and tenth pages of the report that I had to present to the public in Serbia, is that the government must become aware of the macroeconomic consequences of its operation, and that is why this report has been presented, or does not work. In particular, it must bear in mind that the concentration of ownership, as was the case in Luka Belgrade, C Market, Knjiz Milos and many others, creates conditions for the permanent death of the capital market. On the other hand, the way these concentrations have been carried out, along with a number of frauds, with the functioning of the state authorities in the interest of large capital, and the law-playing by ignoring the indisputable facts or regulations, the contribution actually increases the instability of ownership rights. So without the security of ownership rights there is no development or market economy, and finally no democratic political system, you only have the development of corruption and organised crime. Therefore, both ownership concentrations were carried out through companies registered abroad with the intention of participating in the privatisation process. The capital used is of unknown origin, although in one case it has been found to originate with Cyprus. The capital is managed by people who took high places in the former hierarchy, Miroslav Miskovic and Milan Beko. This fact shouldn't be underestimated. It is therefore the government's task to examine in co-operation with the Cypriot authorities, with the help of specialised international institutions, the provisions of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, Articles 46 and 48, how much capital has been drained from the country of the 1990s, which are the flows of its current movement and to identify cases in which it is legalised through participation in the privatisation process. This is not just a matter of need, it's also a government obligation. So this is just one example that should reflect society in Serbia after the October 2000 change. If I'm not mistaken, you're the author of the Destruction Economy. We now, nine years after so-called. democratic change, we don't have system reform, and we definitely have a devastated economy in Serbia. That she was definitely devastated showed a financial crisis. We may not know that, but simply, this financial crisis has brought to the surface everything that should have been, from the declarative, implemented in practice, which is the reform of the system. You've been making statements that you've taken over a state apparatus with a number of officials who've increased so much that it's now a burden for all of us, and now you're in an even bigger problem because you won't be able to solve the problem of people from the state administration and public enterprises who are going to have to get fired. On the other hand, what is also inadmissible and what we did not know, but the crisis has drawn it to the surface, there is a media campaign against all of those MPs who are asking such unfortunate questions and are looking for concrete answers, in terms of their receipts. The agency's receipts amount to 356,000 dinars for only February of this year, without bonuses. Also, you have receipts from the director of public enterprises and bonuses that I can't even pronounce, or mathematically express. So you had examples of several parliaments of the most developed countries of Western European democracy, which because the financial crisis began to take a certain toll and take terrible situations, which no one could control or give projections anymore, had sessions of parliament where the government gave concrete announcements to the programme. We didn't have that. You had a whole management team, which privates, big privates who are really big privates in the right sense of those words, which they used to say -- we give up our bonuses, solidarity for social reasons with our citizens. I don't remember anyone from the Serbian government, the Serbian government, asking the regime that prevails in Serbia for, say, Mr. Miskovic, whom you created, to solidarity with an increasing number of poor people in the state of Serbia. Something I don't remember Mr. Miskovic doing anything that could contribute to the citizens of a country that slowly but certainly sinks into growing poverty. Another indicator, which I will talk about later, is, of course, that trackway towards the EU, which is legitimate from your point of view. You chose that, the people voted for the EU's approach. We really believed that the EU would see Serbia as an equal partner, not as another colony. However, we will hopefully show during this debate that the EU is very conscious and slow but certainly poor and what remains of the Serbian economy by setting certain standards and conditions that Serbia cannot wash away. Loans and loans are being made, we've been talking a lot about these days, and I don't want to repeat this time, which only foreign companies can escort. Like building a bridge at Beska or Ada. So, there is a climate that is obviously supposed to confirm what we're talking about, which is that Serbia has indeed become a colony of strong financial capital that is being poured over the government in Serbia and that is why we have such divergent views in the public. You're famous, though, as the man who brought down two governments, you'll probably have this one, and then I wonder who's actually behind you, but you'll probably tell us that during this debate. Speaking of the fact that the application of the transitional agreement has damaged Serbia by 267,000,000 euros... This is not our data, the finance minister said on December 6th, therefore, that Serbia is losing around 23,000 dinars due to the unilateral application of the agreement with the EU. According to the National Bank of that period, it is 267.000,000 euros. Since you weren't there, we were able to figure out what that 267,000,000 euros could mean for a budget that's in a terrible crisis. This could, therefore, focus on the foreign ministry, which would thus represent the interests of this country in the world with four-fold, particularly in the context of resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems and increasing pressure on an ever-increasing number of countries to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, for example. Or, to triple the resources for our judiciary, to allow judges better working conditions, higher wages; or to focus these 260,000,000 euros on our farmers or on building infrastructure. Also, we've calculated that you can build 60 kindergartens, 50 living rooms for children, with secure transportation, new furniture for 150 schools, 50 physical halls. For these money, 22 schools could be built, 90 schools were renovated, 15 new ones were built or three bridges were built in Belgrade. So you can see it that way. What we also tried to explain during the morning work is this latest agreement with the IMF that should save us, to be a straw of salvation for Serbia, at least that's how it is presented in the Serbian public. Believe that we cannot find a logical justification for the IMF's conditions for Serbia in such a difficult economic situation, and that is again a picture of the entire set of economic laws that are ahead of us, and their enforceability. In what way? What we know from the media is that the budget deficit is required to be less than two billion euros. So it should be 967.000,000 euros or below 3% of Serbia's GDP. Also, around 967.000,000 euros per year of a permitted Serbian deficit will obviously be compensated from the funds received by the sale of large Serbian enterprises, IMF loans or Western European lenders linked to the IMF. So, what is also very important (and the SRS is trying to use not only its sources, but is calling for sources that are still closer to you), IMF representative Albert Jager told the US Voice that the IMF loan will be used to pay off the old debt, which Serbia will face in 2009 and 2010. Serbian Finance Minister said the 3% deficit will be financed from the unexpended privatisation revenues of around 550,000 euros, the expected World Bank loan of $300,000 to IPA funds with about 100m euros. The rest will be secured by commercial borrowing in the country and abroad. The remainder of over one billion euros missing from Serbia's 2009 budget, according to IMF demands, must be collected from Serbian citizens. In this context, the question really arises why, for example, did the IMF not give Serbia in 2009 a loan that would cover all of this, a deficit of about two billion euros? What is also very interesting is the statement by the finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, who said – it is completely unknown why Serbia was asked to bring the deficit to 3% in a few weeks, and for the rest of the countries the deadline was by 2012 or 2013, so she stated that as far as the US deficit is greatest in history, they are the most affected by the crisis and is 13% of GDP, and for other countries, which are also subject to 3%, was given a deadline by 2012 and 2013, except for Serbia. This directly means that radical measures are envisaged for Serbia and we cannot interpret that it is in the interest of Serbian citizens, on the contrary. So what this should mean is the freezing of salaries and pensions, a reduction in the granting of municipalities worth about 160,000,000 euros, a reduction in costs by 40% of budget users with their own incomes of around 120,000,000 euros. What is also significant, and yet another example of the government's economic measures... It's just a matter of righting up about 129,000,000 euros. The figure will directly hit important areas such as education, so the Belgrade University Rector said, quote: "We will lose all projects. We survive thanks to our incomes from which we pay material costs. In a situation like this, we can't keep good teachers because we don't have the money to pay them." If, Mr Dinkic, it happens that they are increasing the tuition of students, you will also have a problem in parliament, and of course among the academic population. Then, fuel excises, as a special tax, will lead to fuel collection and a new blow to citizens' standards. We're used to excises on fuel being a linear collection of many products. The withdrawal of about 43,000,000 euros from the Republic Health Insurance Institute will mean that funds will not be allocated from the budget for, say, the endangered population or those who have incomes below the minimum, refugees, unemployed, because by law their health insurance pays the state. So, the director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute Svetlana Vukajlovic said, quote: "We will have a difficult year and a rationalisation of consumption wherever possible". Again, I ask you, how will this reflect on the citizens of the Serbian state? Based on what we have had the opportunity to hear during the afternoon session, this refers specifically to the measures required by the IMF, it is our political confidence, and you have the space to convince us otherwise, that this will lead to the collapse of the Serbian economy, but also society as a whole. Therefore, the logic of the IMF can be reduced to the following: the weaker the Serbian economy and the state in the longer term, the more it will need foreign loans in the coming years; otherwise, if Serbia recovers immediately, it will no longer need, for example, IMF loans. It is not explained until the end why, in such circumstances, with such terribly difficult measures that international financial institutions, mainly for the resolution of external debt, are taking over us, the government course also does not go in the direction of turning markets? We have only heard from you today that we should think this way, that we should turn to markets that are closer than the EU. Why hasn't it done so far? What our businessmen and all of us can confirm is this: that our market has always been compatible with Eastern European and non-EU countries, but it is not really clear why it has waited eight or nine years to think that way, unless it was the requirement of certain lobbyists from the EU. So we can be a member of the EU next year, we can be ten years from now, and we may never be, because it can happen that in light of the EU's financial crisis, there simply is no more. What we see as a tendency and what we see from the behaviour of the representatives of the German economy is that the highly developed Western European democracy countries will close within their economies, without the prospect of helping anyone on the side. Let's go back to concrete data that also paints the situation in Serbian society and economy. It is Governor Jelasic's statement that not only can live on credit; to finance the current payment deficit of the planned 16.1% of GDP, Serbia needs foreign direct investment of 1.7 billion euros in 2009, an additional net debt of 3.9 billion euros. As Serbia makes about 3.6 billion euros in debt in 2009 in order to finance our excessive spending, loans totalling 7.5 billion euros are needed. When it comes to a package of laws that is in front of us, and this is all a story that paints the background, climate, state of economy, economy in Serbian society, we are in no way clear how they will be implemented, which is the financial structure envisaged for their implementation, how, for example, you will improve tourism in Serbia, which is so devastated. First and foremost question, Mr Dinkic – on which part of the territory will these laws be implemented? Will all these proposed legislative packages be enforceable in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? If not, then it is entirely unnecessary to discuss any further on this subject, it is indeed unnecessary even for this parliament to exist. We've been decorated 15% of our territory. In that part of Serbian territory is a foreign country, in that part of the territory is Bondsteel. What we can say, political theory recognizes this, here, Serbian practice has confirmed it, Serbia is under the protection. Then the question is, do you really think that people live alienated from reality, that they are illiterate, semi-educated and stupid? The only thing people care about, I don't even have to be qualified for this debate, I can only ask you a question – how will the life of Serbian citizens look better? What will these laws specifically bring to the citizens of Serbia, will productivity grow? Will more jobs be opened? Will the number of small and medium-sized enterprises be increased? Will Serbian citizens be able to endure this year and the next five, as economic experts close to you announce that Serbia will live in misery for the next five years? The financial crisis situation cannot be affected with 100% accuracy, but what is already certain is that this is the biggest economic crisis since 1929. No matter what you said, by calming the announcements from parliament, that Serbia will not enter the recession, Serbia has entered the recession. Now we're facing the situation that you're going to tax all of us in a way that we won't last even the first half of the month. If you live with the lives of ordinary people, the question is, who will pay your taxes? Who's gonna be able to buy food? Statistics say that 80,000 per month is necessary for the average consumer basket. Who will be able to wash it out in Serbia? Maybe directors of certain agencies, public enterprises. It won't be 90 percent of Serbs. The first we spoke – sorry, we do not know what your negotiations with international financial institutions look like, in which way you explain them in Serbia is only a certain job for the state and the Parastate and that the state and the para-state apparatus counts bureaucracy for three countries. Now we're about to ask you how do you think these people, which you're definitely going to have to leave without bread, provide bread? We don't need to know from these indicators, that Serbia is over-indebted, that the external debt has reached $30 billion, that we almost signed a loan agreement with the SE bank (we talked about it right here in parliament) of around 20m euros, we don't need to know any of that, we just want to answer whether it will be better to live in Serbia. Does joining the EU and this big rush with such a package of laws mean that finally life in Serbia will return to normal in 2009? Don't just answer – Milosevic is guilty of this. He's gone. You rule as much as he does. You've been nine years, one way or another, being in banking, being in the whole... You sign the economic flows of this country. Where are the domestic development banks? What the public in Serbia expects for a reason is a concrete solution to the growing and larger problems. We have found ourselves in a situation that all of what we have done so far will mean that people in Serbia will not even be able to survive. You'll have a problem. The pensioners won't be able to make it ten days. What has also fragrantized us is an attempt to tax incomes that are more than 12,000. It's a disaster! Do you even know how much the average family in Serbia needs? What the public in Serbia should know is how the government works. You, therefore, sit down, arrange, have some analysis, reports, you see who these legal proposals are going to affect. How do you work? Who do these laws apply to? For Serbia in 2012 or 2020 or for Serbia in 2009? Just don't answer to these dilemmas (and that's what we said in the morning session and I won't repeat) that there will be certain projects that will benefit institutional strengthening, certain seminars and the preparation of the people to do all the jobs that are ahead of them. I'm telling you, it's not gonna work. As long as these trainings last, the people must live on something, they must feed, they must maintain hygiene, they must be treated, and maybe sometimes they think, that they have a projection, a virtual reality about it, that it might be a good time and get some rest somewhere, and they won't have, regardless of the subsidies you announced, they won't be able to go anywhere because they won't be able to wash away everything that is everyday life in Serbia. Serbia in 2009 is not the same as Serbia in 2000. In Serbia, 2009 most companies that could have meant a financial injection were sold out or sold out. They've been sold out with all these things the hope of all the citizens. Let's just remember the shame that took place during the NIS negotiations with the Russians. We don't even know what's wrong with NIS property today. We don't know who cheated on the Russian partner in the story what NIS has all this and with what assets NIS had on the day it was provided for by an interstate agreement and why the property was prescribed to the Republic Property Directorate. In 2009, Serbia found itself in a situation that it would not be able to find a resource from which it would be able to extract, apart from credit, other than borrowing and some enterprises that could mean a financial injection, which will essentially mean nothing, because we saw such examples go through in practice, from the perspective of Miskovic and Beka. In the context of this, the proposed set of economic laws should clearly meet the needs of individual centres of power, not to mitigate the effects of the global financial crisis. We are all here in front of the Serbian public, the Serbian Radical Party has presented these arguments to you. We suspect that all of what you have proposed as a package of economic laws will absolutely not be implemented. It's going to be a dead letter on paper. You have met the European Union's demands. What about the Serbian citizens' request? What kind of corruption problem have you solved? What response did you give to monopolization and capital accumulation? Finally, again, I remind you of the question that I started this exhibition – who is ruling Serbia? Whose interests does the regime in Serbia carry out? Serbian? No, I don't. If that were the case in 2009, we wouldn't be in this situation if we didn't know where we hit; the budget deficit is so much that we all started sitting too early and we don't have a concrete answer for all those who put us in these parliamentary benches. When citizens on the streets meet us and ask us what this is, we don't know, we don't have an answer to that. What happens next? We don't know. It's a picture of the Serbian society in 2009, and we've been looking forward to it for several months now, from you specifically... Because when thinking about Serbia's economy and finance in Serbia, he thinks of you, Mr Dinkic, in the first place, because you are the author of the "Economics of Destruction". I would like to know what Serbia's economy is now called and to see how you will now respond to the Serbian public, and these are just some examples of how everything is brought to Serbia for the benefit of certain monopolies and how in Serbia the interests of certain centres can be carried out from this great and broad leprosy called the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17412	The word has been made by MP Dejan Nikolic, a follow-up MP, Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17413	Dear Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my Sokobanja was an inspiration through its history for many great writers such as Ivo Andric, Stevan Sremac, poet Isidor Sekulić, comediographer Branislav Nušić, who came to find their peace, rest and encourage their feathers. Socceration today is a serious business of tourism. It passes through it annually on tens of thousands of tourists making almost a million overnight stays. Tourism is a large number of my fellow citizens who express dissatisfaction through me today because they could not influence the creation of this law. Tourism isn't just a theory, far from it. Tourism is, according to one professor, a dream sale. So when the laws are written, it is necessary to listen and ask those who live in and deal with tourism. We are fortunate to live in Europe, the farthest most developed tourist region in the world, which participates with almost 50% in the distribution of all tourism revenues, amounting to over $240 billion; it participates with almost 60% in world tourism traffic, with over 400 million tourists per year. Tourism has a strong impact on the balance of payments of the state, on employment. In Spain, it's almost 10% of all employees. Tourism has a strong influence on investment activities. These are tools that encourage economic development and can help in the days of the economic crisis. That's enough reason for the great involvement of the state, but first and foremost, all of us, to encourage its development. This is what I'm saying and I'm pointing to the conglomerate and the importance of tourism. Serbia has great tourism potential. It has vast natural resources, beautiful landscapes, rich cultural and historical heritage. Despite all this wealth, however, Serbia is not on the European tourist map and we have a big job ahead of us. However, if we want to be better, if we want to talk about Serbia with respect and as a tourist's size, we have to compete with the best. We need to coordinate and compare our laws with the laws of EU countries at the very world tourist summit, such as Spain, France, Italy, Austria and Slovenia, and thus come closer to the European funds from which the development of tourism is financed, such as IPA, CIP and others, which we are not using to a sufficient extent at the moment. The law is expected to define a tourist product for whose development and market positioning Serbia has comparative advantages. These are rivers, primarily Danube as Corridor 7, mountains, spas and health tourism, rural tourism, cultural tourism, business tourism. These are tourist products defined by the law on the tourism of every EU country, but not by those that are ahead of us, or defined in one word. In this regard, I have submitted several amendments, including amendments to which I have defined health tourism, the healing factor, its use and maintenance, because not all resources are forever renewable and therefore we must treat them with a clear policy of sustainable development to protect them for the present and future generations. It is true that spas and health tourism are defined by the Banis Act. Our Banjage Act is from 1992 and, as far as I know, it's a new law on spas. The tourism law is a roof law and it requires us to define all our tourism products and potentials, and this amendment is the opportunity to define in which direction this Bane Act should be changed. With the other amendments, we have pointed out some more fundamental shortcomings in this law, but we have also shown the willingness to make this law better, the willingness to protect the interests of our fellow citizens. Only in this way do we show responsibility to people who live and deal with tourism in Banja Koviljača, Vrnjačka Banja, my Sokobanja, Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Tari, those who live next to the Danube, Sava, Tisa, Timoka, we show responsibility to natural, cultural resources, we show responsibility to our country's economic policy. My fellow citizens and your citizens with full rights expect a good law, and only through cooperation with them and only together can we make it possible for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17414	The word has been given by MP Dejan Radenkovic, followed by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17415	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, from the area of this set of laws, I will focus on the proposal for a law on foreign trade. The proposal for a law on foreign trade regulates foreign trade in accordance with the World Trade Organisation and EU rules, as well as the competences of the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion. Among other things, this bill defines which are legal and natural persons engaged in external trade. Foreign trade is free and can only be limited in special cases by this law. The bill also regulates the treatment of the most privileged nation in external trade relations. In principle, in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, external trade in goods and services, as well as investment works, it is free and cannot be restricted except in certain, regulated, conditions. This regulation has many economically strong and market-oriented and developed countries, so it is a good thing that the proposer decided to regulate this matter with law. The restriction on external trade is introduced if unfair discrimination arises between countries, or customs territories, or if the need for protection of public morals is created; for the protection of life and health of people, animals and plants; protection of intellectual property; artistic, historical and archaeological treasures; non-renewable natural resources; safety and environments, etc. Protection measures should in any case not be designed to violate the freedom of trade and competitiveness of participants, so that they are introduced by the government on the basis of a proposal from the competent ministry. Protection measures can be quantitative, anti-dumping, compensatory measures, protection measures against excessive imports and measures to protect the balance of payments. Because of the time I have at my disposal, I do not intend to elaborate each of these measures, because the promoter and the authorised representatives have already explained it well. I just want to point out that despite the highlighted principle of free trade, every national economy protects its economy through various forms of extra-tariff protection, the introduction of national standards and, in particular, anti-dumping measures. We are familiar with cases in Europe of protection against imports of Chinese products and agricultural products that are highly subsidized, especially in EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we need an agency somewhere, and we have dozens of them not so necessary, then we need an Agency for Foreign Investment and Export Promotion. The conditions for Serbia's survival and development are investment in new production capacities, increasing production and jobs and also increasing exports. An institution that will professionally deal with lobbying and promoting foreign direct investment in Serbia and the country's export opportunities, with the emphasis of all the advantages we have as a country, will certainly justify our business. In the end, I would just like to say that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will define in the voting day that this bill is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17416	The word is made by the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, followed by the People's Messenger Alexander Pejcic. The time available to the Progress Group is 19 minutes, and the time available to the DSS Group is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17417	Discussing the proposal for a law on foreign trade, the SNS Group Advanced proposed that Serbia delete Article 1 which mentions your large SIEPA or Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. In order not to remain deprived of information that the whole world has at its disposal and that the whole world is laughing at, to inform you that in June of last year, the agency funded a project in the European Times that should have branded Serbia, its opportunities to accept investments, its export opportunities, its natural beauty, the people who lead it. She made a promotion in the Belgrade City Assembly, attended by one of the ministers, before working somewhere in one of those agencies, another SIEPA (and it promotes the entire government of the Republic of Serbia) banned the public from talking about it, as the magazine came out in English, for those who would come here and don't know us, and in that magazine it politically collapses into the state of Serbia. It's obvious G 17 plus did it. So, according to the company, after World War I, which began after a Serbian nationalist killed Austrian archduke Franco Ferdinand, Serbia became part of the Kingdom of SHS. Then he says that Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slavonia and some semi-autonomic region or region of Hungary and Dalmatia have entered this new kingdom. So, semi-autonomic area, so to speak, Hungary, abbreviations - Vojvodina. It was as if it was hard to write – Vojvodina. Then he says, "Croatia declared independence in May 1991, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina followed it in December. Since 12% of Croatia's population accounted for Serbs, Yugoslavia has been bitterly fighting Croatia's independence and even more Bosnia's independence. The Yugoslav army, in which the majority of the Serb commanders were in command, attacked Bosnia and Herzegovina's minority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has begun the ruthless ethnic cleansing of Bosnian Muslims." It came out under your shoe, Mr. Secretary Dinkich. "NATO eventually intervened to end the conflict in August and September 1995 and in November of the same year Serbia, Bosnia and Croatia signed a Dayton Peace Agreement ending a four-year war. In 1998, an ethnic conflict began between the KLA, which assisted Albanian Muslims who made up 90% of Kosovo's population and SRJ troops. Hundreds of Kosovars were killed, or were forced into exile. NATO did not do anything at the start to stop the fighting, as Kosovo was still legally a Yugoslav province, but evidence of the existence of massacres on civilians finally led NATO to intervene and begin air raids. Serbia eventually agreed to sign a peace agreement with NATO on June 3rd, after hundreds of people were killed or forced to leave their homeland, and Yugoslavia and the regime in Serbia became notorious worldwide. Burna Milosevic's rule ended in September 2000, when Vojislav Kostunica, a law professor and political outsider, said Mladjan Dinkic, " won the presidential elections, and next year Milosevic was extradited to the UN International War Crimes Tribunal and indicted for 66 war crimes, including genocide and crimes against humanity. "This is how Serbia is promoted and becomes a brand in the world, a country for investment. "Ethic violence escalated in Kosovo in 2004 and NATO intervened once more. "According to you, NATO intervened in 1999 and 2004, it was forced there because of ethnic conflicts, and here because of ethnic conflicts, and then you say that in February 2007, the International Court of Justice ruled that the massacre of over 8,000 Bosnian Muslims committed by Bosnian Serbs in Srebrenica was genocide, but the court did not link Serbia's government to the case. Here you are now mentioning me, saying that as a member of the nationalist Radical Party, I beat Tadic in the first round of presidential elections, but Tadic won the victory in February, as his goal was EU membership. Of course, this is where the company "Dilloyt" is being promoted, so I understand why it looks like a magazine that Serbia is printing. Then I found your interview first, before the Prime Minister. In it, you say that all investments are sent to three sectors, one is "Fiat", which will export 100% of its products from Serbia. That's what you told us in June 2008 to invite us in March of this year to buy these products of the Fiat, since they have nowhere to be sold. You have also offered to exchange our old cars with 1000 euros in differences for a new "full", at a time when we should buy edible oil, flour, sugar, salt and gas, since there is still no electricity in all its parts in Serbia. You said Serbia would help with 25% of the companies that invest over 200,000 euros and employ over a thousand people. Then, the ICT sector deals with an Indian company that will build a park between Belgrade and Novi Sad on the best agricultural land, at a time when we will need food most. Well then Luka Belgrade; what the newspapers are now attacking, you promoted it in June. Why don't you come by and defend Gilas? What are you silent about when it's Serbia's promotion? Then, of course, the Prime Minister says that because of the effects of the financial crisis (I am now translating, and perhaps wrong) we can expect economic growth to be around 4% in 2009. So he knows about the big financial crisis in the world, but he predicts an economic growth of 4%. Now I hear you're somewhere at minus 2%, or who knows, when I read your data, God can no longer hold you by your neck or by your head, compared to 7-7.5% in 2008. Then you say that the budget deficit will be below 2%, and all of this at a time when a memorandum is being made, a little later a budget memorandum was made, in which you predicted in 2008, a rate of real growth of 7%, in 2009 6.5%, in 2010 6.5%, in 2011 7.5%. What was I going to point to here? You were fully aware of the economic crisis, the consequences that would leave Serbia and every citizen in the economy, but you had elections ahead of you. You lied to the whole nation, Mr. Minister, and a memorandum of budget, and a budget and such a traitorous... This is an act of treason. Let the press call as many as they want. He who dares to describe Serbia in the name of the government, he is the enemy of Serbia. That's why I'm saying there are a lot of enemies in the government of Serbia and I can't remember another country in a world where there are enemies in the government. You deceived us, Mr. Minister, you, Tadic, Cvetkovic, Palma, Dacic, whom I forgot to be angry with, Draskovic. You've all deceived us. You were preparing for the crisis, and you weren't preparing the country for the crisis. You've been seducing us, you've deceived us. You told us that we have the biggest GDP growth and that we will have it in years to come. We gullible believed you and you received a gift from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is there at least a little responsibility in you? Do you at least have any political morality? Or as you represent the Parliament and the MPs, that we are completely moralless people, that we are destroying Serbia, that we spend every penny she has, that you want to continue? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is your picture and opportunity. I'm not accusing the minister and his ministry of this and that SIEPA agency, this is what I'm accusing all of us, we're all involved in this, someone for, someone against, and now it's not too much of me to always be against what you're proposing. Serbia is going to the abyss, and you've been changing for nine years, like someone from the ringishpill is throwing you out into the ministerial chair, so what's got you on. You can lead everything in Serbia, and only when they determine what you're going to lead, you add, pack, collect, watch what you can get involved, what else you can touch on your political party or yourself personally. You have no right to lead us for one more day, because you brand us as a land of genocide, like a land of criminals and villains. Now listen to those of you who are with them in power, and you say you're patriots, you say you love this country, you want the best of it, so you don't give it to anyone: these people with this "Dilloyt" gave this country to everyone, we're left with crumbs and we're left to fight in the elections who's going to be in power. It was a poor rule when we allowed you guns to introduce democracy. There's no democracy if you bring her in with guns.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17418	The word is proposed by Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister of Economy and Regional Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17419	I listen very carefully in the morning and just before, and I really can't be surprised at one thing – how can you lose ten years in this country and not see that your delusions, your empty stories don't work? It's just amazing that you don't see that there's some limit to people who can get caught up in such delusions and empty stories. Mr. Nikolic, you are the last man in this room who can hold me any morals, let alone professional sermons. Why? Because you know as well as I do, as far as what you just read is so exciting and so inspired for a few minutes, you know exactly what the background of all this is. You know exactly what the background of the article in the European Times is, you know that SIEPA didn't pay for it, she didn't write it, she didn't publish it. You know, because it's been said more than once in public, that neither the Serbian government paid for it nor wrote it, but that it's true that this text was written itself by the "European Times". When SIEPA saw that text, the entire circulation was withdrawn and nothing was paid, nor was the dinar paid. Is what it says in the European Times incorrect? Of course it's wrong. Is it scandalous? Of course it is scandalous. But did the Serbian government or anyone from Serbia, SIEPA, do any of the ministers? No, I don't. A prank was attempted by this list, which was prevented. It's interesting that you, who know the full truth, quote something that a journalist once wrote. You have a journalist who respects his profession, you have a journalist who doesn't respect it. This was written by one NIN journalist, who is known for the theory of "third bullet" and similar obstructions in the process against the assassins of Zoran Djindjic. You're quoting him. It's okay for you to quote it, but don't pretend to be someone who's a fighter for the truth when you know it, because it's repeatedly denied, that it's absolutely made up. It's a propo of your story about falsifying history. If the Serbian government had written that, that the Serbian government had paid for such a text, it would have had to resign. But it's a lie. The Serbian government prevented the magazine from being distributed and did not pay the dinar. You can check that, it's absolutely true and it's published. It's not fair, at the very least, that something you know is a story of your own. As for the expert lesson you wanted to teach me, now go ahead, and listen to you, and you, ma'am, what's the truth about our economic trouble. Serbia did find itself in economic trouble, not because the government is inextricable, not because the previous government has worked badly, but because the world has entered a huge economic crisis. Did we know this was gonna happen? We didn't know. If you say it is, and you didn't warn us, citizens, then that's what it says about your double face. I didn't know the world would... And I didn't think it would be possible for something this big to happen. You know for a fact that none of us could believe that the world's largest banks would be nationalized. I'm talking about banks in Great Britain, Germany, America. So we're really talking about a global economic cataclysm. Of course now is the easiest time to criticize. But something needs to be done, and I'll tell you what we did. First, the crisis could not be seen, because the first month when it was clearly noticed was only August of last year. In America, she's probably seen herself before, but no one could have imagined she'd have such a global fact in the world. We knew we were living in a global world economy, but we didn't know that the earthquake on the American market would have such a strong impact on Europe, on Scandinavian countries, on Eastern Europe, on Japan, on Asia, literally on everyone in the world. If you were to say that we could have expected, for example, that Japan's Toshiba, the US Ford or a company like Simens to fire tens of thousands of workers, that people who used to sell cars would now sleep under bridges in cardboard boxes in California, that a whole small country, Iceland, would go bankrupt, that Latvia would also go bankrupt, that we would have major problems in Russia, Hungary, Bulgaria, and even with us in the region, no one could have predicted that. Why did that happen? It was exactly what had been resenting the Serbian government for years. Unfortunately, some other more powerful and larger countries have done so in a way that has caused the crisis. Of course, Serbia did not cause a crisis. What's going on? The world was developing on the basis of large loans. So, the global financial system wasn't controlled, small countries like Serbia were controlled, we had arrangements with the International Monetary Fund. If America had an arrangement with the IMF, we'd never have a global crisis. If Britain had an arrangement with the IMF, they wouldn't have had a crisis. In fact, there was no supervision of the financial system, there was no control of the financial system. Because of the absence of control, these quasi-credit mechanisms were such that some banks began to record losses. When the banks recorded the losses, they stopped lending. When they stopped lending, the citizens had less money, they bought less. When they stopped shopping, the demand fell. When the demand fell first, the problems faced the branches of the industry that produce permanent consumption, such as the automotive industry, so the production of cars fell, because the demand for cars fell; when the demand for cars fell, the demand for raw materials of which the cars were produced, after steel, for all other materials. Globally, demand in the world was oversupply in the previous period because of large bank loans. Does that mean you don't need to borrow? No, this crisis will stop when these same banks that caused the crisis due to poor placements and the credit stop start lending again. What can we, as a country, do, and what are the consequences that we face? The consequences are that there's less money coming to us now, either through foreign investment or through credit, because those who lend don't lend to their own countries or their own citizens, so they won't lend to us either. Is that good? It's not good. Is that nice? It's not nice. But are we gonna whine or are we gonna do something? What can we do? We can try to resuscitate the greatest effects of this crisis. The first effect of the crisis is that the debts resulting from the economy are refinanced this year. This year, the Serbian economy is worth 5.5 billion euros in debt and only 350,000 euros in debt to the Serbian state. So it's not a problem in the Serbian state, in the Serbian government; the economy, which employs 1,600,000 people, without the public sector, has reached 5.5 billion euros in loans this year. Why did we make arrangements with the International Monetary Fund? Not because we would only strengthen the NBS foreign reserves and ensure the stability of the dinars, but to enable them to agree with foreign banks, the creditors of the Serbian economy, that this year at least as much credit will be paid out of the past. Were these past loans good and necessary? They did. Why? Because in the past five years they have secured economic growth on average of 7% per year. If those of us who ran the economy blame us for making it possible for us to borrow, then you have to blame it on the whole world. The world always spends more than it does. It is true that the Serbian state too, that Serbian citizens spent more than they created, but that is even more pronounced in the world. Many of our citizens remember a period of Tito as some of the best years of this country because, in fact, the country was taking loans and people were spending, and no one was wondering who would repay those loans. I want to literally speak to you what is real truth, without any politics, because we owe the citizens of Serbia that we always tell them the truth. The measures we have taken are not just measures of agreement with the International Monetary Fund. We decided not to tax any dinars on the economy, no new tax on the economy was introduced by this programme. So, lies are to tax pensioners, to tax citizens with salaries above 12,000. It is true that the IMF proposed this. The fact is, we turned it down. The fact is, we decided first to cut the costs of the state itself, the state administration, at all levels. It's fair that under the circumstances of the crisis we don't touch the one we depend on. We depend on the economy. If we'd increased the VAT rate, you'd be right if you'd criticized us. We didn't increase it, we didn't increase it, I guarantee it. If we had introduced this solidarity tax that the IMF proposed, you'd be absolutely right, not just you, but the people, if you'd criticized us. When the measure was published in public by those who spoke harshly criticism of why the state did not start saving itself but wanted to raise the pensioner tax, they were absolutely right. Well-intentioned criticism, objective criticism is more than welcome. That measure has not been introduced. We have absolutely avoided such a measure and are going to reduce the costs of the Republic government, local authorities, the province administration, the reduction of expenditure in public enterprises, public agencies, in the public sector. These are the measures we took, a quarter of the budget expenditure we had to cut. Will programs that were imagined be able to be fully realized? Some will, some won't. The state in crisis must have priorities. We gave priority to active employment measures, we launch a 10,000 trainees' employment programme in Serbia on Friday. Also, we launch a public works programme where we will try to hire those who are unemployed in the less developed municipalities of Serbia. The development of infrastructure, i.e. investment in infrastructure, is the next priority. How do developed countries go with these packages? In addition to these budget-related measures, we also brought in a package of stimulating measures for the economy because we provided 162,000,000,000 dinars of credit for the liquidity of the economy. Twenty billion of these have already been used and remains until the end of the year to use another 142,000 dinars. What else can the state do in this situation? Since salaries in the public sector will be frozen, some will even be reduced, in the state administration, I expect that the purchasing power, which will be objectively frozen, will have to put pressure on price reductions by about six to nine months from now. It is impossible for an economy with frozen wages to continue to grow. There will be no increase in electricity prices, no matter what anyone thinks; there is no need, for the planned rate of salary growth in the EPS is 8%, and that will not be. Salaries are frozen. So there's no reason to increase the price of electricity. What is now happening in the world is probably the predecessor of what is going to happen in Serbia, because events are six months late, even so far. Of course, everything that's going on in the world isn't going to happen with us. If you saw those big billion-dollar packages of measures brought by foreign governments, you might have wondered, and maybe you didn't, where did they get the money. Where did they get the money to take over the biggest insurance company in America AIG ("Manchester United" has their logo on their uniform), where did they get the money to take over the City Bank, where did they get the money from the Germans to take over their largest bank that credits the population? Did they take that money from taxpayers? No, they're not. Why didn't they? Because they could have done it in another way, which at this point would not give us the effect – they printed the money. What we're creeping ourselves out of here because of the experience of hyperinflation was done by Obama, by Gordon Brown, by developed countries. What did they do? Simply, the central bank gave out loans from the primary show to buy out AIG shares, City Banks and everyone else. They didn't raise their taxes. I can see your reaction, sir, but that's reality. Look at the communiqués from the G20 summit and you'll see. Many will be surprised when they read what happened during this crisis and how some theories we learned at the Faculty of Economics, here, Mr. Staying you and I, have been completely changed in this crisis. It's really like that. Why did Obama print money, or federal reserves? Why did they print the money? Because there are no more customers of US government bonds in the range that it was in the previous period. America financed a huge budget deficit that is 12% of GDP by selling government bonds. These bonds were bought by Chinese, Europeans, big states, because they're safe. However, there is no such purchase now. Given that their interest rate at the central bank is very low, given that inflation is very low, they are now in deflation and have a reverse process of what we once had in Serbia, they have a drop in price. This measure, the loans from the primary emissions, is not inflation. We'd be inflation right now. It wouldn't be if there was a drop in price from six to nine months, it's really hard to predict for now. I want to tell you that this crisis really changes the opinion of all objective economists about the concept of reality. To say that someone could have predicted that all this would happen, that America would print money, the UK, too, that we would have to deal with these programs now, that unions would be aware of this situation accept the freeze of wages, because the alternative is that you couldn't pay the wages in time unless you cut the expenditure. Why did we have to do this? We had to because there was a smaller demand for our products abroad. They're not our producers who have become bad overnight exporters. Look at the Valley of Aluminum and Copper in Sevojn, it has achieved a record in production this year, but due to the lower price of metal on the world market, the value of exports is lower. Maximum production, lower price, lower value. That's why the state's revenues fell, the state's tax revenues fell; they didn't drop dramatically, at this point they're about 3% lower than in the same period last year. So what the state collected from taxes, from contributions to the entire state level, is 3% less than in the same period last year. The budget was designed to make income 11% higher than last year, and so was expenditure. As soon as real incomes have fallen, expenditures must also be reduced. It's the essence of our program. We have chosen a reduction in public expenditure, a reduction in the costs of the state administration as a method of saving, and, on the other hand, we have left enough ammunition for stimulating measures for the economy. Of course any taxation of the economy at this point is out of the question. I heard from one of you that you need to cut your salary taxes. That's a great idea. I would sign it today, because as an economist, I think it would be ideal if we knew where to cover that additional deficit. If we had lower inflation now, we could do it, cut our salaries and expand our deficits, and then somehow finance it, how developed countries do it. We're not in position right now. We'll see what happens in six months. This is a situation where no one can say with certainty today what will happen in three or six months, but we can safely say that we will always take measures to protect citizens, in the maximum possible sense, and to protect the economy that creates conditions for maintaining capacity. So this is not Serbia's development chance anyway, there can be no development and anyone who talks about economic recovery in the time of the world's greatest economic crisis is not telling the truth. It's easy to say, it's easy to be a populist. That's not real. Whoever's in power here now would have a narrow maneuvering space, a maneuvering space between tax hikes or spending cuts. We didn't choose to raise taxes in the economy, we were already going to cut expenditure. We think it's much better. One day this crisis will pass. Serbia cannot stop it, as it did not challenge it, and you understand that. I believe that even to you, Mr Nikolic, it is clear that Serbia cannot stop the global economic crisis, but the fact that we have to ensure that we pass as little damage as possible in this crisis and that we are fighting for every job, to speed up the process of starting major infrastructure projects, to be efficient in parliament, to adopt these laws that, right here, will have more importance when the crisis is over, but that doesn't mean we don't have to do anything now, to despair and to wait. So that's true. Of course, everyone has the right to speak the way he thinks Serbian citizens will understand him better. But, Mr. Nikolic, in the end, it doesn't matter what you say, it doesn't matter what you say, it doesn't matter what you talk about you, it doesn't matter what I judge this moment, it's going to judge some history, so someone's going to wonder what this Nikolic did in his life and what this Dinkic did, no matter what he was attacked so much. I'm convinced that the actions will be on my side, no matter what you're talking about in the coming years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17420	The right to replication based on direct mentioning and mentioning of parts of the exhibition is given by MPs Nikolic Tomislav, MP Marina Ragus, Maras Slobodan and Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17421	I wish, Mr. Minister, that there was wisdom in the government to stop you right now, that you no longer had any work behind you. If anyone ever writes about you, it will first come from the National Bank, and from your transactions in Moscow, and from the Serbian banks you have closed, and from the insurance companies you have closed, then it will reach your ties with foreign capital, to the sale of banks. Dear God, only when I write a book will it be really good and it won't be too professional, but I won't insult you "there's something even you understand". I just want to tell you, when you talk about election results, tell me when you beat the list that I led or I promoted, so tell me I've been losing the election since 2000. So Boris Tadic could say that he indicated when he won Tomislav Nikolic, but must say that Tomislav Nikolic had 200,000 votes. In this small Serbia, which they predict will have a total of five million people in 30-40 years, it is a dream that you are not worth dreaming about. This paper, which you say the government of the Republic of Serbia is not behind it, was promoted in the Belgrade City Assembly, was promoted by Minister Jasna Matic. At least he shouldn't have been a minister after that. She said - Serbia, you have something to look forward to. If the government doesn't stand behind it, how does one minister stand, or are you all divided individuals? You all like to rule, and sometimes you're honest. Next, you're telling me about the crisis being discovered in early August, and I'm reading to you here an interview by the Prime Minister from June in which he talks about the effects of the global financial crisis. Did you sleep from June to August while your Prime Minister was talking about the global financial crisis that's going to hit us by reducing our growth, that we have a budget deficit of 2%? You're talking about economic growth. You didn't have a new job. I've been hearing about two million employees in Serbia for seven years, and it's gone. What kind of growth is that if people don't get hired? What are you measuring it with? What's your excuse? What do you brag about if the same people work at work? I can only calculate how many people in which services are literally driven out of work, how many thousands you drove away when you brutally as finance minister said - as of today I no longer give money to the military. Why do I need books about you? You were a newspaper writer, you were interviewing. You were then a powerful and powerful Mladjan Dinkic. You look different today. I wish you'd acted like that in politics. Do you know what you just said? "We've frozen the payments and there's no reason to increase the price of electricity anymore." When you explain it to some economist... (President: It has been three minutes, MP, the time for replication has been used. I'm sorry. When you cut your salary taxes, people from the gray economy will come to pay you those taxes, not now to pay on black.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17422	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17423	Mr Dinkic, I was expecting your reaction, following your press release, that you will call all of this by picking up cheap political points during the crisis period, and that is why for days, for almost months in this House, I have been giving concrete information that comes from state sources or from sources of close countries, meaning, mostly from economic experts who are owned to evaluate. So, I didn't say what you said -- no recession for Serbia. This is what you said, and now I'm going to tell you exactly when – February 25, 2009. I hope the camera records this. This is your biggest denial today. So you also said that Serbia will avoid recession this year and achieve mild social growth -- according to Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, Economy and Regional Development Minister Mladjan Dinkic -- there is no reduction in wages and pensions. There's a lot more of you here, Mr. Dinkic, you said. If you don't know what you're saying in public, I'll give you this press clipping. Also, I did not say that Serbia spent all these nine years of privatisation funds on public spending, tasked itself to buy political peace, to make empty political promises each time in the elections. That's what Mr. Radovan Jelasic said on February 1st 2009, the title of his author is "Can't Live Just From Credit", Mr. Dinkic. Also today and these days, I have presented your official answer to the parliamentary question that you and your respective ministry have referred to me as an MP. So, I beat you with your arguments, your data. I'm not saying you're responsible for the global financial crisis. How can you be? I'm not saying anyone can project what's going to happen today, tomorrow or five years from now. That's what I'm talking about here all the time. It is not your direct responsibility, but you are responsible for the state of Serbia, because you have convinced citizens that you are the signator of all the strongest economic solutions for the state of Serbia, you as the author of the "Economics of Destruction", you have well analysed the destruction then and offered concrete solutions. What were you doing? Where did all this public spending come from? That's the point. So, I did not use any of the sources of the Serbian Radical Party, but your sources, your statements, and based on analysis, I made known to the Serbian public what I said. I'm a politician, I'm not even in charge of economic thinking, but I'm here to oversee what your ministry is doing and what you're doing with the state of Serbia and that's my constitutional right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17424	He has the right to reply, the People's MP, Slobodan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17425	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, the problem for you is that you could have spoken here 20 minutes ago, but everything you've been saying over the past few weeks, months, it's been denying each other. You're always in some kind of collegiate with what you're saying. Secondly, I don't even know who you are. Are you the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance? You just said it. I guarantee you we won't raise taxes. Is that in your jurisdiction? I don't think so. You say, "We'll launch a project, we'll hire tens of thousands of interns." What about those thousands that are out of work? Today, I set the example, by signing your colleague Obradovic, you have abolished, since the story of tourism has already been taught in nature. Three to five thousand people will lose their jobs because of it. You're telling us about tens of thousands of interns. What are you doing next? You label tourism, and you open a market for commercial chambers. That's what you said today. Now that we're playing the market, you go out to the market once, but on your own, and you'll see how the citizens evaluate your policy. You asked us today to trust you to succeed in the next few years to double a billion dollars, how much Serbia's income is from tourism. Who can trust you more? Thousands of euros per share, we export Fiat, Russia, everything we produce we export, land a buffer in the course of an election campaign somewhere in the snow, you show up and say -- there's going to be a ski resort, there's going to be a cable car here. How much longer, Mr. Dinkich? You're saying who could have predicted? We had a budget rebalance and we warned you from the opposition, we from the LDP constantly, about the economic crisis. We were narrators. What did you do with the budget rebalance? Retired pensions? You've increased the expenditures, terriblely, of this country. We had a budget in December. Then what did you do? Don't tell me you didn't know in December that there was an economic crisis and what effects could be. Don't take it out on America, England and sell cars. Mr. Dinkic, in March, she jumped car sales in Western Europe by 40%. Do you know what's gonna happen? Everyone will slowly start to rise, someone faster, someone slower, but to rise from this economic crisis, only Serbia will continue to fail. The effects of the global economic crisis have not yet felt in us, the effects of the economic crisis are feeling because of you and your government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17426	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17427	Mr. Minister, the Honorable Presidency, I'd skip it if it wasn't who it was, we've finished college, but I'm telling you that Obama can't print money, he's got an institution that gives free money with a 1% interest rate. But Obama, with his package, came to Congress to get support, and he came to Congress because it was the money of the user, the obligor. You and your package didn't come to the Serbian Parliament. You took responsibility for it yourself, so try it now. We spoke in October, but you were late with measures, and now we're telling you, those measures aren't enough. I went out for a while, there was a debate on tourism; when I came back, it seemed that the debate was about economic measures. I know that the media will only carry what you said tomorrow, none of what we ask will be, but, in any case, you have to – that's what LDP will ask when you come to the Assembly, if you will come along with Cvetkovic to defend these austerity measures – to bring measures that will boost the economy, as Obama does and the American Congress of Money by American taxpayers. Since when is that consumption? Well, consumption has jumped from the moment you entered the government in 2004, to Kostunica's first government, and that's why today we can't do what the world does. You need to cancel the VAT collection from the invoiced to the realised, you need to bring some more incentives to the economy, because these austerity measures are not austerity measures, but cosmetic, too late. Without one complex package, none of it will be. It's gonna hit your head. After all, says Mr. Marash and other MPs, who will trust you? Don't take it personally, simply, this country with this kind of government is hard to believe. So you have to be brave and admit that it's not all about money, there's something about politics. Since you've been involved in politics, you've been very skillful and successful in avoiding politics. You know, when Serbia makes it clear that it wants to be a member of the NATO Pact, then the money will come. This is how it will go to Croatia, Albania. You have to take that responsibility if you want the people to believe that you are both part of it, you and your government that you represent, for these European integrations. This way you can talk and, conditionally speaking, treat us like we're being foolish. But when we mention Obama, this Obama guy would never think he'd say he'd cut the congressman's salary, and that Obama would never think he'd say that based on federal reserves, he'd have to print the money, and here it's all the other way around. The responsibility will eventually be on you, that is, the government, not you personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17428	The word is held by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17429	I want to try to answer the question why I'm talking and what my authority is to say we won't raise the VAT rate. Because my authority is the Ministry of Economy, the Deputy Prime Minister himself, in charge of the economy, it's about the economy. So my firm belief, as Minister of Economy, is that in a country where liquidity is at risk, there is no further need to increase VAT, any small liquidity pumps, because it is wrong; it is far better to cut costs, which we have done. So we won't raise the VAT until the crisis is over, that's a guarantee. Why can I guarantee it? Because I stand behind it as Minister of Economy and Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy. As for the issues related to the situation, precisely because of the state of play, the effects of the global economic crisis on Serbia are not as strong as some other countries that have not made appropriate reforms before. Just because our banking system is stronger than the banking system of other countries, we're going through a crisis. Iceland went bankrupt because it didn't have a strong banking system. Letonia had a big problem with that. Our strength is in the banking system. We haven't even given the dinar yet, because no one has asked us, because there's no need to rehabilitate any bank, unlike the City Bank, unlike the EFG, unlike the British banks, from the largest German bank. Why? Because we have a degree of reservation three times higher than the EU average. What used to be a grudge for economists and me as former governor and finance minister and my successor, Mr. Jelasic, proved to be the greatest asset. It's going to be written about by someone who's objective when all this is over. So the banks are the strongest anchor we have. That's one thing. Another thing, as far as predictability is concerned, all countries were making budgets in November, December of last year, both in the region and in the world. All countries today are rebalancing budgets. Croatia has implemented it recently, Bosnia is preparing, Macedonia, Germany. So, all countries, both developed and less developed, are rebalanced budgets, income plans are recalculated every month. As for what I said in the paper, I really think we have a chance, but it's up to you, the agriculture sector and traffic to somehow avoid recession. We haven't officially entered the recession yet, although there is a major drop in industrial production. It's probably more like the ones who say we're going in, but as long as there's a chance I'm a fighter, I don't give, I never back down, as long as there's a chance I think it's better to try to make something. If agriculture grew this year, however, a few percent, we would be close to zero in terms of total economic growth. We didn't cut our salaries and pensions. I said, there won't be any cuts in wages and pensions. If you exempt salaries from the state administration, the salaries of the largest number of Serbian citizens and pensions are preserved. We had to show by cutting salaries in the state administration, which will be since 1 May, that we are really ready to transfer as state the greatest burden of the crisis to ourselves, not to pensioners, not to employees in schools, hospitals, not to private sector employees. The private sector has already adjusted itself. As for the criticism of car export and free action, you well know that the flag is now in a position of productively working at least 500 people at this time, that it is likely that thousands of people will work productively in September. That's probably better than no one working productively and paying subsidies. At least a number of people are now making their own money by producing a "punta", which is starting to change from tomorrow to tomorrow for old cars. Of course you know that it is impossible in the middle of this cataclysm to expect an export of 200,000 cars, but having twice as much production as last year under normal conditions is, at the very least, a good crisis result. I think anyone who loves Kragujevac and this country should say – people, you have succeeded in Kragujevac, who has been on subsidies for 15 years, even if you do something. U.S. Steel, which was our biggest exporter, is now standing, and those who have never worked in the middle of the crisis double production. Is that small? It is for you. I think it's good for this crisis. Is that something we'll be happy about when we get out of the crisis? Well, we won't. It is logical that when it comes out of the crisis, through new investments and a new model Serbia becomes one of the major exporters of cars, but we cannot objectively reason on that. You'll say one thing, and I'll say another, time will show it. I never gave up on the goals I drew, whenever you or others thought it was over, that Dinkic could not achieve a goal, I succeeded. It will be this time, not because I can do it, but because we have a good team in the government. We have unity in the government, and I'm sure if there wasn't a crisis, we wouldn't be talking about this today. As for the action, you, sir, are laughing, but could you ever have expected that the actions of world giants would be worth 20 times less than they were worth a year ago? As their analysts, the world's best economists, could not predict, neither could I. The law was done with the best of intentions. We're going to go on an adequate shift this year and the citizens are going to get action. Are they worth as much as I thought would be worth today? It's not worth it. It's clear they're not worth it, because they're not worth a single world producer's action today. Will their value increase after the crisis? It will. You can be evil, politicians, but the intention was good. It's not something that's been taken away from the people. It is something that is given free to the citizens of Serbia. You say measures aren't enough. And we don't think they're enough. That's why every month we'll build on the measures. When you have changed circumstances it is clear that you would be crazy and stupid to say – what we have done is enough. You're the smartest if you say measures aren't enough. I'm telling you, measures aren't enough. We'll have to do something new in a month. Why? Because unfortunately, as a country that has eight million inhabitants, we are not in a situation to actively influence the crisis. We can only act passively. We can defend ourselves. We can only actively influence when the crisis is over, because until the crisis passes by those who have caused it, we can only defend ourselves. Finally, as far as politics and independence go to the elections, twice my party went to the polls alone. We've always had the support to have MPs in parliament. Now we're out in the coalition. We're satisfied with the relationship in the coalition. It's really not fair when you say you have less choice than we have if we haven't tried to go to the election on our own. I'm talking about this MP group. As far as you're concerned, keep trying. When you changed the name of the party I thought you changed the way you worked, that you had concrete ideas, not an empty story. Good luck to you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17430	Request for a replica, I presume, MP Tomislav Nikolic and MP Slobodan Maras. The People's MP, Free Maras, wants a word. Please, just press.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17431	Mr. Minister, as counterpart Ostojic said, you have no reason to take all this personally. The results are what measured it. That's the only thing Dusko Radovic thought was that. I'm telling you, after all that's been going on in the past year, two days, the policy you've been running from where you're sitting today, it would be nice to suggest that when you suggest you go out to the market on your own, see if the citizens have confidence in what you're saying. We didn't get an answer on some of the questions we asked. You called those of us who asked you questions a politician. Explain to us, Mr. Minister, how it is possible for the finance minister to say that it is possible to raise taxes as an ultimate measure. You say there is no way to increase, we are talking about VAT, Minister Dragutinovic says we will tax all receipts that are higher than a certain amount. After three days, there are measures that say it won't happen. You say we're unique in government, we're doing great as a team. Every day, different signals come from the government, different government statements. You're obviously imposing yourself as a government spokesman, as prime minister, as finance minister, as economy minister, vice-president of the government. We're just waiting for you to act as Home Secretary for those who don't think like you. Citizens are very hard to live for. This isn't a demagogy. It's a fake. I know you know that, too. I know you probably have a very good intention of making the citizens live better, but that's not working. The only thing that works is great marketing. What about public enterprises, Mr. Dinkic? I can't wait for the day to come for the State Auditing Institution to enter public enterprises, so let's see how much it pays to show up next to the president in the election campaign, see how much six-minute contributions are paid on one television via the public sector account. These are the things we're just gonna talk about. We were supposed to talk about tourism today. You started the story of economic measures, and that's good, but stop distracting the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17432	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, who is entitled to a three-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17433	Mr. Minister, you failed to convince me, even though you tried. I carried my cross. I took my samar off. I'm surprised Boris Tadic wears you on his back, and I can never figure that out. You're a burden to this government. You're a burden to Serbia. The manner in which your party exercises power is a burden on Serbia. We're talking about public enterprises. You've reported the salaries of the director of public enterprises since February of this year. Give us the G17 director's report, how much did they take home last year for a whole year, salaries, bonuses, rewards, stimuli, stimulation? How much did the Director of the Commercial Bank take you? When the action started, everyone took off their salaries, why did you give us how much money they currently have? Can we talk about tens of thousands of euros in monthly compensation for your members? Can we talk about 20% of all the compensation that goes to you and your party to finance your activities? To prevent us from being accused of Serbian citizens thinking we're doing nothing, and you're just working, the Prime Minister has received a proposal for a measure of the Serbian Progressive Party. What you're not talking to the Prime Minister is your problem, that he didn't tell you what we suggested. Now some parliamentary groups are proposing the measures that we have proposed at the time. Now you're entering the measures we suggested then. Later brains, five or six months. We're not asking for any authority over these measures, just apply them. Just make it better for Serbia. But your manner of pointing yourself out in the first place, your manner of saying you couldn't predict the crisis, so you didn't know how much the bonds would be worth, and that year you were the best finance minister in the world, your manner of not taking responsibility at all for everything you do, to ask what you've ever done, is not the manner in which the government is led in times of crisis. You were elected minister because the people thought you'd be providing loans. Look at the stenogram of your discussion today. You wouldn't go through the first year of economic college. You've lost your mind, Mr. Minister. Economic categories, like you lost them somewhere in the government. You've left out the whole economy. Now you're dealing with other problems. You're playing the economist, Mr. Dinkich. But, well, my colleague said well, one day the government will change. There is no democracy without changing power. There's no knowledge of what you've been doing until the government changes. Your budget has dropped by 2%, and your income in the economy by 80%, and you find some calculation to justify it and prove it's true and that it's possible. You charge VAT on invoiced goods, and there's never any payment of that stuff. In business courts there are high disputes on the floor, already now. Praise the banking system we don't have. You can say that cosmic nature is the best... (President: Three minutes, MP. )......................................................................................................... We don't have it and we've never had it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17434	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Pejcic, followed by MP Bojana Stanojevic. I apologize, MP Aleksandar Pejcic and MP Marina Ragush have agreed to change their seats in order. The word is a folk letter from Marina Ragush. I'm sorry for your loss. The time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group is 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17435	Unfortunately, Minister Dinkic is gone. I hope he comes back. If he doesn't come back, I know the Secretary of State will tell him what I have to say now. It is about what Mr Dinkic said that no one could predict, that in August it was yet to be seen that such a thing could happen. However, on February 25th, the time foreseen for the replica did not allow me to pass it on to the Serbian public, yet it is here that it is most invited to know every detail, Mr Dinkic said, among other things, that wages and pensions will not be reduced, nor will there be an increase in VAT. This was at the end of a public debate on the Law on Regional Development in the city of Nis. Also, Mr Dinkic said, "Serbia will not increase the tax, because there is no one to charge it from. It will have less budget revenues than expected, and the budget deficit solution is in debt on the foreign and domestic capital market. "In Mr Dinkic's words, the capital market has reduced interest rates, Serbia's total debt is 25% of gross social product, leaving the possibility of funding this year's budget deficit by borrowing under favourable conditions (this is all 25 February 2009). Among other things, Mr Dinkic then said: "Besides the existing measures we have taken, we plan additional measures aimed at easing the negative effects of the crisis, and these are measures for businesses that are now in trouble, but have previously successfully done business, as well as for companies that have debts from the past, and now regularly service their obligations. "So much for how Minister Dinkic and the regime approach a financial crisis that has definitely shaken and will shake Serbia more and more. Also, one fact that should also be answered by Mr Dinkic concerns the implementation of the Transition Agreement. Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister, said on October 5th 2008, I quote: "The application of the Transition Agreement should wait for its adoption by the EU. "If the economic situation in our country deteriorated, which the government acknowledged when it reduced its forecast of GDP growth to about 3%, although this is probably an optimistic forecast, taking into account the assessment of the world's largest credit rating company, Dan and Bradstrit, which in its January report estimated a decrease in economic growth in Serbia in 2009 to 2.5% and a deficit higher than the estimated 1.5% of gross domestic product... It has been decided, despite the deterioration of the economic situation, that a transitional agreement with the EU is unilaterally applied. At least one position of Serbian government officials was quite the opposite. What we also didn't get an answer to, was noted by a previous colleague, is what regime was not allowed to ask Mr. Miskovic, and we will certainly at some point, even on some polling committee, ask him – which political parties he was behind, how he concluded affairs in Serbia and how he became a real monopoliest in the state of Serbia, but about that later. What is the subject here, I believe Mr Dinkic will be able to give an answer when he returns, a unilateral application of the Transition Agreement and the accompanying laws, such as customs, fully corresponds to Mr Miskovic. For example, on 11 January 2009, the CEO of the Delta Maksi Group said that trade in Serbia will benefit from a unilateral application of the Trade Agreement with the EU. This should also be added to the assessment by Dijana Markovic-Bajalovic, president of the Competition Protection Commission, that there are monopolies or insufficient competition in the area of food retailing. According to traffic, the number of sales facilities, squares on the Belgrade market, Delta is a 70% monopoly. It is now the company Delta as a monopoly in the trade sector that will benefit from the unilateral implementation of the Transition Agreement. At the same time, the application of the agreement will essentially transfer 267.000,000 euros to the back of the poorest citizens of Serbia, through the collection of excise duties and possible ones, as we heard from Serbian government officials, increasing value added tax. Also, another example Mr Dinkic should comment on and hear is the question his government colleague referred to him, as regards Corridor 10. A public man asked a question, it is about Mr. Mrkonjic -- could he give 40,000,000 euros in land expropriation dinars, related to Corridor 10, in two months' time, so that he could use 115,000 euros in international loans. What is significant and what we tried to do today is to take pictures of the situation that occurred after 2000. I'm not saying that this before was good, quality, never seen, but these are incomparable categories, given that the state was then in isolation, under sanctions and burdened with civil wars, and you had the full support of the international community. Now you have monopolies, so if you look at the "Deltin" site, you will see that the revenues from the sale of 1,720,000,000 euros in 2007 alone, in 2008, the company's planned income was even higher and amounted to almost an incredible 2,880,000,000 euros. It shows that it deals with the import of cars, spare parts, the sale of cosmetics, the distribution of food, mineral fertilisers, it owns a huge chain of supermarkets. But we cannot see on any official website of the Government of the Republic of Serbia what Mr. Miskovic did for the state during this crisis period, with respect to all the significant economies of Western European democracy, in which he donated or helped certain vulnerable groups of people. What is basic, I do not see any response to concrete examples, such as the privatisation of the Ce Market, so Luke Belgrade, the Council for Combating Corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia says. So the state created conditions for the existence of monopolies and we talked about it today. Based on all these concrete examples, we have presented to the infidel that this set of proposed economic laws needs to advance anything. These laws do not mean implementing the interests of Serbian citizens, but of the EU and certain centres. We supported this with certain evidence that we came up with. The public will judge who is right, history will record everything, how political events took place on the political scene of Serbia at the end of 2008 and 2009, who crossed the electoral will and who actually rules Serbia. In the remainder of time, it's about five and a half minutes, I'm just going to pay attention to what we're going to seriously try to elaborate, possibly amend, and these are the proposals of the law on foreign trade, standardisation, technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, the proposal for a law on tourism. To repeat, we do not understand how these points of the agenda were combined, given the subject and seriousness of the proposed set of laws, but what Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic, my colleague who dealt with this problem, tried to present here as a problem is an external trade exchange in the previous year, which was otherwise the largest with EU members, more than half of the total exchange. The exchange surplus was reached with the former republics of the SFRY, BiH, Montenegro and Macedonia. Given that I have very little time, I'm just going to announce the topic we're going to discuss in detail. The largest deficit, however, appears in a trade with the Russian Federation due to imports of energy, primarily oil and gas. The main problem is that, we do not understand, there is insufficient use of a bilateral free trade agreement by our exporters. We assume that it will go in this direction, given that EU membership is indeed on a long stick. Here, of course, it raises a legitimate question why the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion does not encourage our exporters to export to Russia, for a number of reasons, is in the first place the compatibility of products and markets; and also, in addition to this agreement, another advantage is that the needs of the Russian Federation for Agricultural Products are so great that absolutely all quantities produced in Serbia can be exported for Russia's needs. Mrs Dimitrijevic rightly asks the question here, dealing with this bill, which is a fundamental problem here, why the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency has done nothing in the past few years to achieve this co-operation and to achieve significant exports of our agricultural products and this dilemma almost needs to be explained. So it is clear to everyone in Serbia that this and how it would help to cope with the impact of the global financial crisis. Among other things, there would be a reduction in the external trade deficit, which Serbia already finds as a fact. We still have a situation where the global financial crisis has led to a decline in industrial production. In Serbia in December 2008, an 8.9% drop from the same month in 2007, a 9.7% drop was also recorded in the production and distribution of electricity, gas and water, while the processing industry recorded a 9.4% decline. Also another example: in December of last year the production of raw materials and repromaterials was 16.7% lower than in 2007, while the production of capital products fell by 13.7%, energy by 9.7%, and non-permanent products for wide consumption by 3.4%. The volume of industrial production in December 2008 was lower than in the same month of 2007 in some 20 areas that account for 86% in the structure of industrial products, while growth was recorded in only nine areas. Those are irrefutable facts. The biggest impact on the decline in industrial production in December 2008 was the production of basic metals, electricity, chemical products. In early 2009, the trend of exports and imports fell due to the financial global crisis that led to the decline of economic activity in the world. What is also evident is that government representatives want to join the EU at all costs, however, the EU door is still closed to Serbia, because Serbia has now failed to prepare its production structure at no cost, nor by standards, nor by a level that can correspond to the highly developed EU market. One example is, of course, the Fiat in Kragujevac, which cannot be imported from domestic spare parts producers because technology is outdated and somewhere at a level of 20 years ago. That's what we're going to try to get in response from the government. It is certainly something that we hope to bring closer to the Serbian public in the best possible way, and that is what we will try to offer, conditionally speaking, as a possible solution to emerging problems, as regards the adoption of a law that should bring Serbia closer to the European Union. (President: National MPs, the time available to your parliamentary group has just been used. I'm just finishing up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17436	The word is a folk letter from Bojana Stanojevic, and after that, the MP of the people, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17437	The President-in-Office, respected representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, in my presentation today, I will particularly refer to the Tourism Act, given that it is certainly one of the most prospective, but also underdeveloped economic branches in Serbia. In addition to the many good geographical features and natural predispositions that Serbia has in this sense, tourism is still plagued by many problems that do not allow the proper development of this important economic branch. I come from Vrnjaka Banja, from what the minister noted today, one of the most developed and most important tourist resorts in Serbia. It is located in Raška County, in which tourism is certainly one of the most important industries. In addition to Kopalnik and Vrnjačka Banja, there are Matarushka, Josanička and Bogovačka Banja in the Raška district. You'll admit it's for one county an impressive number of Bani climate places. However, except Vranjska Banja, other spas are not sufficiently developed. This situation can also be projected on all of Serbia. This just shows that the development of Banjska tourism needs to be given much greater importance. For example, 12 tourist resorts were registered in 2007. Of those 12 tourist resorts, seven are Banjska spas. Five tourist resorts have also been registered in which more than 300,000 tourist nights have been reached. Of these five tourist resorts, there are two spas, such as Vranjačka and Sokobanja. This suggests the importance of Banjska tourism throughout the system, but at the same time signals that this type of tourism must still be specifically processed in the tourism law. Although there is, in any case, a very important law on spas, and the tourism law must in its own way correctly define Banish tourism. By submitting several amendments to this law, I intended to define a way of charging tourist and residence fees closer. I hope the Ministry meets us in that sense. Vrnjaka Banja has been having a new problem in recent years which, I am quite sure, tortures all other tourist-developed municipalities in Serbia. Namely, because of the excessive and unplanned building of apartments and so on. The apartment happens that guests pass through these tourist resorts, take advantage of all their benefits and do not apply and, of course, do not pay a tourist tax. As a rule, the owners of these apartments are not indigenous residents, and they, along with their friends, pass through tourist resorts without registering and paying a residence tax. There are some estimates that only Vrnjaka Banja lost over 12,000,000 dinars in the past year. This points to the problems of Banish tourism. In the end, I'd like to draw attention to one of the leading problems in my place, in Vranjska Banja. Namely, the privatisation of the Hotel-Tourist company "Fontana" failed. At the moment it was privatized, this company owned about 45,000 useful squares, i.e. most of the most important hotel and catering facilities in our place. Unfortunately, privatisation has been annulled, for several years everything is stagnating, some court proceedings are under way that slow down the problem. In this regard, I urge the competent ministry and all competent institutions to help the local community solve this problem and to really be in a position to hold a high place among the most developed tourist sites in Serbia and thus help the overall development of tourism in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17438	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. The time available to the Progress Group for Serbia is seven minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced that each and every one of us has the same zeal for the development and progress of the areas from which it originates, as well as for the progress of the whole of Serbia. When I talk about Serbia's tourism and tourism potential, the Raški administrative district is its essential segment with a centuries-old tradition. Suntops, Pancic's submarine, black and red Deep are just some of the Kopalnik associations. Goč and Golia are lower than Kopalnik, with less ski days, but on them, the initiative of local self-government is rapidly developing the segment of the tourist offer. Maglic, according to his own name, is the foggy medieval town built by Jelena Anjujska over the rapids of Ibra, a series that is traditionally organised every year by the "Merry Downhill", the Zic, Studenica and Saint Friday monasterys, as monuments to the unfailing splendor of old Serbia, the rural tourism of Kamenica and Stanišinci with ethnic settlements that are zero as a product of private initiative of lovers in tradition. Wild boar hunting in the high beech sensual forests of Goča, in the fenced hunting grounds of Vrnjačka Banja, as well as fishing on the rapids of Ibra and in the silences of West Morava. As the most important thing that God and nature have given us, and the ancestors have preserved us, are Bogotovačka, Josanička, Mataruska and, of course, the largest and most beautiful Vranjčka Banja. I am telling you this as a confirmation that it is necessary to provide for the establishment of tourist organisations of the region, which is the Serbian Progressive Party, that is, the Prosperity Club Forward Serbia - Tomislav Nikolic, by its amendment and predicted. The relation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to tourism comes down to the personalafinities of the Secretary-General. As Mr Dinkic, as a colleague earlier said, "the top skier of Serbia", the country's investments are only in "Smuggling sites of Serbia", while other tourist potentials have been forgotten. Will my fellow citizen from Vrnjačka Banja or from other spas of Serbia wait for Mr Dinkic, God forbid, to suffer from diabetes or the organ disease of the digestive tract, to welcome some major investment in Vrnjaka Banja and other spas of Serbia? How much cynicism and disorientation the current republican government refers to tourism is also an example of Mr Dragan Markovic Palma. Last year, in the year when Vrnjačka Banja celebrated 140 years of active tourism, for cheap political points, Mr. Markovic organised my Vrnjekna in Jagodina to teach them what tourism is, to show them wax figures and to show them the giraffe that Mr. Dinkic, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, bought him the money of all Serbian citizens at this time of the global economic crisis. Mr Dragan Markovic Palma should boast of the Jagodinic Turkey as his tradition and tradition of Jagodina, and he could also use his exceptional political influence and personal weight, and be dealing with the Jagodinian brewery, the only brewery in Serbia that has failed, to deal with the Juhor, to deal with the Jagodina cable factory, whose production is minimal and to explain why it tolerates the conflict of interest in which it is located and that tourism deals with competent people in areas with centuries-old tradition. Vrnjaka Banja is the tourist resort of the first category and queen of continental tourism. However, with the lack of care of the state, the lack of interest of local self-government due to unresolved ownership relations and due to lack of system laws, of old fame, unfortunately, remains only a name. The motor of tourist development of Vrnjačka Banja municipality is HTP "Fontana", with a capacity of 1,200 beds in six hotels and with so many restaurants at the most exclusive locations in the heart of Vrnjačka Banja. In HTP "Fontana" there were 270 employees of different profiles of the tourist profession. "Fontana" was a nursery of good staff who won first place in the contests of delicacies, chefs, waiters, tourist workers, tourist technicians throughout the former Yugoslavia. The "Fontane" agony begins on July 3rd 2005, by privatising 70% of social capital for about five million euros, for construction facilities of a net area of about 50,000 square meters, which makes up a single price of 100 euros per square metre, in locations where the price of business and living space is between 1,500 and 2,000 euros per metre square metre. At the time of the privatisation of "Fontana" she had a debt of 37,000,000 dinars and as much claims. What's the situation now? Privatisation was annulled, workers on the minimal, and it was a riot, hotels estranged, debts at a level of 450,000 dinars without contractual arrangements at the beginning of the new tourist season, all of which, ladies and gentlemen MPs, while the capital guards and members of the HTP Management Board "Fontana" were cut off by the staff of G17 plus, just like Bojan Kristo. On your own behalf, on behalf of the citizens of Vrnjaka Banja, on behalf of the workers "Fontana", I ask you no longer to hold the capital of Serbian citizens in that way. So the question arises as long as you go with further kidnapping and robbery of "Fontana" property, while you play with the fate of 270 employees, while you play with the fate of Vranjska Banja, who without "Fontana" will become a common place? The reason for the adoption of this law is also in fact, at least as you stated, that "from the current 87,000 accommodation facilities in the outdated buildings Serbia does not achieve even the approximate business results of those who are achieving competitive countries". I'm asking you who's been in power for the last nine years, who hasn't achieved any approximate business results? What do you confess in this way, incompetence? As you were privatizing, I showed you on the HTTP "Fontan" case. The culprit or, more specifically, the suspect, of course, is Mr Dinkic. I think the evidence process would take a very short time. As for the lack of significant investment from the country and abroad, the reason lies in the fact that neither the state nor local self-government have motivated entrepreneurs to invest. For example, the price of planning city building land, i.e. a utility for building a hotel is the same category as for building apartments for the market. The conversion of capital during the construction of apartments is maximum for two years... (President: National MP, time for your parliamentary group to be exposed has been used. )......................................................................................................... I end, another sentence, while during the construction of tourist accommodation and service facilities this process lasts for 20 years. You do not in any way initiate a change in the bad climate by this law and therefore we will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-14-0.u17440	Ladies and gentlemen, by giving the last speaker today, we are finishing our work. We continue our work tomorrow, April 15th at 10.00 p.m., by continuing the debate in order of the MPs, and by applying for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 22, 23, 24 and 25 of the agenda. The first in the morning is Parliament MP Aleksandar Pejčić, followed by MP Branislav Mitrovic, and MP Radojko Obradović, then MP Dragan Vujadinović, then MP Zivojin Stankovic and MP Pavel Marčok, who will conclude the list in a row of MPs and statements for a word in the debate in principle. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 125 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelena Travar-Miljević, Nikola Novakovic, Vitomir Mihajlovic and Zoran Shami. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for meetings, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, to attend Vesna Arsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Edi Majstorovic, Chief of Staff of the National Investment Plan, Mirjana Ćojbašić, Assistant Minister of the National Investment Plan, Radmila Petković and Natasa Sokolović of the Ministry of the National Investment Plan, and for the next item of the agenda Ljiljana Juvar, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development and Tatjana Prijic, Head of Department of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. We move to a joint principled search of 22, 23, 24 and 25 items of the agenda: – Proposal for a law on external trade; standardisation; technical requirements for products and evaluationsIn agreement; and tourismOn yesterday's working day, we have stopped in the course of the debate in principle, and in accordance with the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint search, on the proposals for the laws set out in those agenda points. A notice of time available to parliamentary groups and authorised representatives: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – 83 minutes for discussion in principle; the SRS parliamentary group – no time for MP group, used, and authorised representative Marina Ragus has 10 minutes; Parliament group G17 plus – 21 minutes, and the authorised representative Milan Djokic has 13 minutes and 30 seconds; the DSS Group – 20 minutes; and the authorised representative Arsen Đuric has 7 minutes; the MP Group Advanced Serbia has used its time, and the time of authorised representative and time of the MP; the SPS-JS Group – 6 minutes and 10 seconds; and the authorised representative Zoran Kasalovic has 4 minutes; the MP Group LDP – 4 minutes; The Group of 30 seconds; The MP New Serbia, authorised representative of the SPS-JS Group has also a small group and 10 minutes. The word, according to the notices of the People's MPs, in the morning section, has the first MP, Aleksandar Pejcic.
