ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26713	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third is present and that there are conditions necessary for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the National Assembly that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session shall take place on the basis of Article 235(2). Rules of Procedure, i.e. the rights of the President or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to request information and explanations on the basis of the same member, i.e. Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and for five minutes. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26714	I ask all present attention colleagues, not because I need them to pay attention, but because it is a question of close to hundreds of thousands of people and it is about providing health insurance services, which means that directly from this question and the answer to it depends on the lives of many Serbian citizens. I ask a question for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health - on the basis of which a number of workers have been denied over the books and health care since 1 July. The media estimates that their number is about a hundred thousand pieces, and I will not say how people threaten to end their own lives because of the denial of the right to be treated. This right has been denied by a large number of insurance companies and their families because the Republic Health Insurance Institute refused to verify health books with an explanation - that employers are late with the payment of contributions for three months. Through the analysis of all regulations, please also the Assembly, and colleagues and the Government to carefully hear how we interpret regulations, we bring them and how we directly influence people's lives. The analysis of all the rules on health care, social security, public revenues and other relevant laws found that the contested provision is completely illegal for several reasons. The Authority referred to the provisions of the Regulation on Correction, Health Insurance and Special Correction for the Use of Health Protection, which believe or not to be obsolete, stands on the active website of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. Thus, an invalid rule stands as a notice on the basis of which, according to Articles 8 and 8 of the 2nd and 3rd of people, the right to a health book is denied, i.e. treatment. Even if that Regulation were valid, and it is not, and I point out, that substance could not have been even regulated by the Regulation, nor was the Governing Board of the Republic Health Insurance Office authorised to decide on the reasons for the termination of the insurance, which are determined solely by law only. The subsequent verification found that it was an outdated rule, which should lead to the delusion of citizens that there is a legal basis for denying the right to treatment and I claim that it was put out of force on 6 January 2009 in the Official Messenger published in number 1, 2009. I repeat that we have found that there was no legal basis for refusing to verify health books and denying health care for workers whose employers are late with payment of contributions and that the procedure is completely illegal. I call on the minister, the prime minister, to say whether he brought it in secret, and illegally, some act that could have denied this right to the citizens. Otherwise, I promise to initiate a procedure before the Constitutional Court for determining responsibility for a serious violation of the right, which may have consequences for the lives and health of a greater number of people, in order to be able to urgently take measures to address this situation. This is a crime by Article 163. Criminal code for labour rights violations and social security. I repeat, this is about the denied treatment rights, by estimates, of over 100,000 people and members of their families, and I ask that the answer be delivered to me as soon as possible. This is not the interest of one MP and a member of the Progressive Group, but rather of a large number of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26715	The word has the People's MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26716	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I read in the paper that on Saturday in the middle of Belgrade, a famous singer, Thompson, a well-known Ustasha ideologist, held a concert on which he cried out various calls - for home prepared and diverse other statements, and it is known that a few days ago he had a concert in Zagreb, where there were also similar things and there were a lot of comments about it, and it is also known that many Western European countries banned this singer from holding concerts of such content. I'm interested in who approved that concert and who organized it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26717	National MP, here is a request for an explanation that can be met immediately - the concert you mention in Biograd, Croatia. It's not organized in Serbia, so we have no one to make an explanation request. National MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26718	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, who, I hope, are watching this transmission, are asking for a notice, i.e. asking the question of Agriculture Minister Sashi Dragina. As a question, I will read the letter sent by the Association of Agricultural Producers "South Banat" and the Association of Associated Warriors of Vojvodina. They have the following requirements -- they want the 2009 wheat price to be at least 17,5 dinars, because it's a producer's price without any profit. They are requesting an urgent meeting with Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, as he avoids the meeting. They are looking for a meeting with Minister of Agriculture Mr. Sasa Dragin and Minister of Trade Mr. Slobodan Milosavljevic. It's that trade minister who doesn't know what the price of gas is. They urgently demand that the prices of sunflowers, soybeans and corn be determined by August 15th in 2009, since we do not have a tail, we do not need a price, they say. Since they sold sugars, no one's been producing tails in the country. Furthermore, they demand that all suffer evenly the burden of the crisis, so, millers, bakers and merchants, seek a meeting with the Union of millers and bakers. They inform all Serbian citizens that for a 200-litre barrel of oil they should hand over two tonnes of wheat at the current offered price, and for a ton of artificial fertilizer they should hand over six-and-a-half tonnes of wheat. Furthermore, they say, so I will eventually ask why I am reading this if our demands do not come up next to the roadblock on the territory of the entire Vojvodina and the blockade of Belgrade. Support of the Vojvodina Association of Associated Warriors was given by the Association of Strawberry Fruit Producers, headed by Mr. Terzic Dragis, the president of the Union. We also inform you, and the Members of the People, that in the talks that we had with the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Sasha Dragin, it is possible to buy the grain at the price of 13 dinars if they buy tractors through Agropanka Novi Sad, listen well to the Members of the People's Parliament, the Marks of 'Mañra' from India and the brand of tractors of popular 'bellarus', and that for the cost of tractors, 50% of the wheat in 2009 and the rest of the credit line in certain banks, which, in our opinion, is unfavourable, therefore, interest. Up to 15 years ago, four tonnes of wheat were produced in Serbia to produce two million tonnes in 2009, and the state wants to buy 65,000 tonnes of wheat from it. We ask what to do with the rest. We ask you, all of us MPs who decide here, why domestic factories "IMT" and "The Dragon", which produced a combined price of 33,000 euros, are no longer working and currently on markets you can find only combined foreign producers at the lowest price of 120,000 euros and above. We ask you how to buy new machinery with the existing prices of agricultural products, when we cannot restore production next year by conducting such agrarian policy, without a strategy for the development of agricultural production in this country and by an outdated mechanism. So agriculture is the only branch of production that has achieved a surplus in trade trade with abroad. So, from all this that has been exhibited in this letter, the Association of Agricultural Producers South Banat and the Association of Associated Warlords of Vojvodina, I ask all of us here, do we remember the adoption of the 2009 budget and that in the budget, in the department of the Ministry of Agriculture, a billion dinars are allocated for the purchase of agricultural products, and therefore I ask Mr. Minister of Agriculture, what he thinks he's doing about the demands of citizens, or farmers who are now in a difficult situation. Especially since when they were able to charge their products, or wheat, the state forbade them from exporting, we remember that well. Whether the state is considering the price of a loaf of bread, or a minister of agriculture, or this government, or the presidency of this assembly, which it knows to punish the MPs, but does not know how to have a people in the autumn to buy bread. So I expect Mr. Minister's quick response, to stop swimming immediately, if he's at the bath, to pack his swimsuits, to come here to the Assembly, and to directly respond to the farmers what he thinks as a resolute minister of agriculture to do about these things that I've brought here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26719	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26720	Ladies and gentlemen, the first question concerns the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, so what measures will the state of Serbia take to help Serbs in the municipality of Strpce and Kosovo and Metohija to finally resolve the issue of electricity supply? Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, especially Serbs in this municipality, have been left alone to learn and solve the problem of electricity supply, which they have not had for more than two weeks. From the beginning of June, restrictions have been introduced in the municipality of Strpce related to the supply of electricity. Since two weeks ago, these people out there all day have no electricity. We from the media hear what measures the local Serb population intends to take to address the problem. We absolutely have no information on how the state of Serbia and its authorised representatives can help solve this burning problem. I just want to remind the ruling coalition that, at the invitation of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, Eulex was installed in Kosovo and Metohija in December of last year against Resolution 1244 and that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija's status has been removed in the wrong way from the UN Security Council to the EU institutions. In doing so, I recall the fact that more than two-thirds of EU members have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence and thus have been unequivocally determined on the issue of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, what measures the state of Serbia intends to take to help the Serb people in the municipality of Strpce and the Serbian people in any other municipality in Kosovo and Metohija when a similar problem arises, and there is every chance that similar problems will unfortunately be in other Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, because this is a direct pressure on the Serb population, on the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, to indirectly recognise the illegal institutions of the NATO state, so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. The second issue concerns the interior minister and the minister of justice. So these days we from the media can read very alarming news about the tobacco mafia in Serbia, Montenegro, Croatia and numerous murders associated with various mafia clans in Serbia, Montenegro, Croatia. I remind you that Mr. Ratko Knezevic said, and indirectly Mrs. Maja Gojkovic confirmed, that the leaders of organised crime in Serbia and Montenegro have ties with domestic politicians and that, among other things, mafia money is a funded attempt to crack the SRS. The state of Serbia must not remain blind and deaf to these statements and these interviews. So, both Ratko Knezevic and Maja Gojkovic are not members of the Serbian Radical Party, but from day to day make statements confirming that there are very strong links between organised crime leaders and individual domestic politicians. I remind you that there are serious indications that behind the attempt of the coup in the SRS there is a man named Arno Danžan, head of the French intelligence service in Sarajevo, a man who organised, apparently, the meeting of Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic at the end of October 2007 with Milo Djukanovic and Stanko Sutotic - Canet Zappac, king of the tobacco mafia, at the Hotel Ric in Paris. I remind you once again that former Novi Sad Mayor Maja Gojkovic, who was excluded from the Serbian Radical Party in early 2008 by the City Committee of the SRS in Novi Sad, chaired by Igor Mirovic, a current member of the Serbian Progressive Party, confirmed that no talks on the gas power plant in Novi Sad could be held in October 2007... (President: Five-minute MP, the time available to you on the basis of Article 235 has been used. ) because it signed the agreement in May 2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26721	There's a word from the MP Vesna Pesic. Here you go. I apologize to MP Vesni Pesic. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26722	Mrs. Komic, I point out, in accordance with Article 103, at the violation of Article 104(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, which affects the dignity of the MPs. I just want to say two sentences. Tomislav Nikolic and Mr. Aleksandar Vukic are available to all organs. Aleksandar Vukic has made a statement that he has one single request -- that the results of a polygraph survey be published, and that he agrees to be on a polygraph chosen by those who suspect any kind of his relationship with some criminal clans. What the SRS can't understand is the idea and faith that you're fighting for the future of your children -- there's no price and it can't pay for money, and that it's incomprehensible, it's going to remain unclear, and it's going to waste all the spit and assaults on Tomislav Nikolic, Alexander Vukic and all of us here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26723	There's no breach of Article 104. If it were, I'd warn the MP. Listening carefully to the explanation of the question he asked in the second part of his presentation, he conveyed what the news is and what his political stance is, on the edge, but without violating Article 104. If that were the case, I'd warn him, so if he kept going, he'd be given a measure. Are you seeking the right to replicate the presentation of the MP, Jorgovanka Tabakovic? Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really didn't want to insult anyone and accuse anyone. I'm just saying that there are serious indications that there are intense links between organised crime leaders and individual domestic politicians. That's not what I'm saying, says Ratko Knezevic, and that's what Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, the woman who runs the party with whom Mr. Tomislav Nikolic signed some kind of agreement on future co-operation in some future parliamentary elections. As far as polygraphs are concerned, political life in Serbia is not Pink's show -- the moment of truth. It is known how investigations are conducted when there is a reasonable suspicion of organized crime. So, the SRS only calls on the competent state authorities to take the prescribed measures to determine whether what Ratko Knezevic and Maja Gojkovic claim is true or not. If so, then the lives of not only the children of Mr. Alexander Vukic, but also my children and all children in Serbia, because Stanko Subotic Cane and the people around him are directly working on the murder of Serbian youth. The fact is, Mrs. Comic, that drugs are the cheapest in Serbia of all Balkan countries. I am not saying this because of the SRS, because of me personally, but because of the children – and the Wolfs, and mine and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26725	The word has an emissary, Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26726	I wanted to ask the government to give an answer to the National Assembly -- for writing the "Brother" list about the Serbian government paying a certain lobby in the US through hidden contracts, and the amount is pretty large, otherwise if the amount were small, I might not even react, but that amount is about 2.5 million dollars in Serbian taxpayers' money. It is said that this information can be obtained through the U.S. Department of Justice documentation, which has actually confirmed - that contracts have been made with two main branches for this job. One is called "Advanced Practice Solutions LLC", the Illinois lobbyist Milan Petrovic, it is interesting that all these lobbyists revolve around that Roy Blagojevic of DS, who has already been accused there of certain machinations, and the other company is "30" or "Thirty Points Strategy LLC", which together cost Serbia $145,000 every month or million and $740 thousand a year. It is also very interesting that the contract with this first company, APLSLLC, was signed by Tamara Stojcevic, general secretary of the government this year on April 30th, in fact on the same day the government adopted the conclusion itself. That's when she, under the orders of the boss, signed a contract for us. The second contract, with another firm that I cited, was signed by "30' or "Thirty Points Strategy LLC" by Mirko Stefanovic, general secretary of Serbia's SMEs. The contract has been in effect since October of last year and is worth 42,000 euros a month or $59,600 if these euros are transferred to dollars. The question is, how can tax collectors control these contracts? What are the tasks of lobbyists like this? What is the quality of such lobbying, and what does Serbia need to achieve for such large money and such large funds to be allocated for some lobbying, for which we do not know what success they will have, is it necessary, and especially that the public does not know anything about it? If these are some common jobs that the normal government needs to finance, then it would be good if this assembly were also informed and that the Serbian public was informed about what the money is being thrown at, when it comes to the crisis and when there may be a tax increase or a reduction in pensions and salaries, and on the other hand, as we can see, money is hard to throw away. There is also news -- that SIEPA, the Government Organisation for Export Promotion, also concluded in the United States extremely difficult and unfavourable contracts, where around $460,000 is also given to some obstructive organisations and some companies that are not aware of what will result from such investments, which makes secret government. I ask the Assembly to be informed of such large amounts and how can the Secretary-General of the Government sign such sums and the Secretary-General of the Ministry without the public knowing and not knowing the Serbian Parliament? If it weren't for this kind of crisis, so let's look through their fingers, but in a crisis like this -- when people don't have a job, when it's very hard to live, when we don't know what's going to happen, this way we see that in some obscenity, third-rate politicians, maybe without any influence, without any knowledge of the results of these third-rate people, they're being thrown away in a mysterious way by our taxpayers' money. Please get us an answer to this question I asked as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26727	The word is from Ambassador Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26728	In April of this year, we asked for a session of the National Assembly, which would be dedicated to discussing the IMF platform. The Serbian government set out in the arrangement by failing to hold a single session of the government before, in which a decision would be made to enter an arrangement with the IMF, a megascandal. We have referred to this earlier by asking such parliamentary questions. Until today, no one from the government has treated us with an answer to the question of how was that even possible? How can this by any rules of procedure, by any rules of play by which the Government behaves, so what happens? You see, when I can have phone sessions, I guess I can do that, right? Later, certain government decisions related to the arrangement with the IMF were to justify what was previously agreed without such decisions and to the arrangement that had entered into, and to this day we do not know all the elements of that arrangement. Minister Dragutinovic said something about this at the end of the debate, answering certain questions, but we have not seen - until today - any strategy of the Serbian government to get out of the crisis, which we have also asked to discuss here; until today we have not seen exactly what these elements are. The Serbian government, according to what we can see, and not according to what the Serbian government boasts, has no strategy to preserve economic policy, nor has any economic policy. What an economic policy of the government could be when two months after that April I am talking about nothing has been done on those promises that were then made within the framework of what the government represented as supposed measures of economic policy to this day. There has been no reduction in the administration, on the contrary, they are passed and laws are proposed in this same home, in the National Assembly, which practically means higher costs for Serbia's budget. Look only at these powerful agencies, and the strong regional agencies that will be formed because a government minister, the leader of a political party, who these days is blackmailing the ruling coalition with a scandalous information law. See how the cost of the state is multiplied instead of shrinking. Just look at the circumstance that the finance minister says the VAT will increase, that income tax will increase, that it will move towards an arrangement with the IMF and other international institutions to protect the budget, i.e. Budget fillers. On the other hand, Mladjan Dinkic, who is probably in the government, says there is no way of increasing VAT. On the third hand, we have Krkobic, who is constantly the same as the grandmother on the stickers, says there is no way to cut pensions. When you add these three circumstances, let's just answer the most rational question of what is the economic policy of the Serbian government, where is it, when will we see it? Is it that I've just cited the government's economic policy? If this is the government's economic policy, then the citizens of this country have a serious basis for fearing for their existence, because the government that runs such an economic policy is not announcing anything to the citizens but a complete economic collapse and poverty. All the citizens of this country know, at least the vast majority, unlike the extraordinary minority privileged, that after a year today, they are worse off than they were. No one today can boast of living better than he did a year ago. Unlike a year and a half ago when people could boast that at least they lived a little better than they did three years ago, say, or two. These are the consequences of your authority, and the consequences are hysteria and panic that catches you, because you can't face these facts, you can't face the fact that someone is going to bring this to the citizens and explain to them what's going on, so you remembered that you should close the media in Serbia and clean them with an iron broom. You're doing this well...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26729	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, four years ago, directed by one man, Mladjan Dinkic, the "Pancer" affair was launched. The owner of the production Milan Dragic was in custody, placed on a pillar of shame, the company was destroyed and it was declared a robbery of the century. The procedure was initiated at the Belgrade District Court, continued before the Municipality Court in Zrenjanin, I think it will end in front of the peace community of Elemir. An entire search of audio and video was requested and the request was rejected. Otherwise, this is a question for the justice minister, and she will forward it to the Supreme Court president. I suppose it would be correct for all Serbian citizens to see what is happening in a case that has been robbed of the century and that a man who has been found guilty and placed on a pillar of shame, and if guilty, goes to prison and suffers his sins there. If not guilty, it may never happen again that some new Baron Minhauzen puts a finger on a man because of intra-party or intra-party reckonings, because he wants to take over a monopoly over something that is of great value to some property or because he wants to help a tycoon, an oligarch, or as they already call it, to take over a monopoly over something that represents an asset of enormous value. Speaking of Mladjan Dinkic, a question for the minister of justice, with a desire to get an answer from the Republic Prosecutor or the district attorney, what happens to my two criminal charges, one of which was filed in May 2005, and the other May 2007? I spoke on several occasions to Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic, who was then a special prosecutor for organised crime, and is now the perpetrator of the duties of the republic's prosecutor. He replied that both applications were submitted to UBPOK and that he expected to receive the UBPOK report. We know who was headed by UBPOK a year ago, but I'm asking what's going on today? Any criminal charges can be processed or rejected, the only thing they can't do is stand in a drawer. Is he standing in a drawer because he's a man who's now the Deputy Prime Minister or what's this about? It doesn't matter what his name is, this is a paradigm of something that can't happen, that someone under the auspices of power can be excluded from prosecution. Of course, I repeat, the application can be rejected if there aren't enough elements to process it, but it just can't stand in the drawer. A third question for Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, and somewhat for the minister of justice. At the time of the previous government, an initiative was launched to help our exiles with KIM in courts through expert associates helps them to file lawsuits against the appropriate municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, against temporary institutions of self-government, or so on. The governments of Kosovo, Unmik and Kfor. People were taken away, or destroyed, property. They are now exiles, they are citizens of the second order, and no one has paid compensation for their sweat and tears and their property that remained in Kosovo and Metohija, both mobile and immovable. I got it from one of the municipal court's expert associates in Obrenovac, which is not important, and they are in all courts in Serbia, a form of such a lawsuit. I'm asking what's going on and who's going to pay these people their property and make up for the damage they've been caused, because they live the lives of second-class citizens in some kind of constituency or in some sort of constituencies without minimum conditions for the normal existence of a human, citizen of Europe in the 21st century?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26731	The word has an MP, Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26732	I have three questions for the Serbian government, specifically for three special ministries. I'd like to start by asking Mr. Goran Bogdanovic, the KIM minister. The question is - when will it start with the work of a committee formed within the ministry, and it is responsible for solving problems from the working relationship of our displaced citizens, who are our citizens living in Serbia, and are reported in Kosovo and Metohija? In particular, what happens to the demand of more than 30 employees of public enterprises from the Poduje municipality, who are now resident in Kursumlia and who simply have no health, no pension, no other insurance, and are competent, at least referred to the Ministry of Kim to solve their problem? Apparently, a commission was formed. I want to know what this commission is doing and if it's doing anything. The second question is for the Secretary of Defense. It is about solving the problem of the homeless military, over 3,500 of our officers and officers living in barracks with their families today, they have left their apartments in the former republics of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and today unearthed, to be milder said, they live in stewards, in stables or in broken barracks, with no way to solve their problem, expecting the defence minister or the defence ministry to finally begin to solve the problem. That's another question. The third question is addressed to the minister of labour and social policy and to the resolute minister to solve war veterans' problems, meaning what happens to the war reserve problem. War reserves, especially the Third Army, are increasingly occupying local self-government every day, seeking their same rights as the seven municipalities from the south of Serbia who have settled this right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26733	Whether any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are reporting to exercise their right under Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) Since none of the representatives or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic and Vlajko Senic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of Proposor Svetozar Ciplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, to be attended by Aniko Muškinja-Hajnrich, State Secretary at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Sanja Jasarevic-Kužic, Assistant Minister for Human and Minority Rights. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE NATIONAL SAVES OF NATIONAL MANJINS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs Olen Papuga, joint MPs Pavel Marčok, Đura Mučenski, Lodi Gabor, Petar Kuntić, Maraci Nandor and Tot Tamaš, then the MPs Oto Kišmarton, Zoran Babić, Saša Tomović, Stefan Zakkov, Jelena Budimirović sent sent by Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, together the peoples Milica Vojić-Marović, Donko Banković and Željko Tomić, then sent by the peoples Sulejman Spaho, Milan Avramović, Milorad Buch, Marina Tabuković, Baj Šehović, Riza Šah, Riza Halim, Šah, Šaljimović, Šiljimić, Šilić, Šiljimović, Šiljimović and the people together the people of the people of the people together with the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the peoples and of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the people of the Republic, Mr. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on International Relations, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Legislative Committee has rejected the amendments of the People's MPs Sulejman Spah to Article 6, Stefan Zankov to Article 14 and Jelena Budimirovic to Article 100, and these amendments, in accordance with Article 148(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly cannot be debated and are not voted upon. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to the debate in the details of the amendment to the first member of the law, I remind you that representatives are authorised, and for the debate under the bill: MP Miletic Mihajlović - MP group SPS – JS, MP Željko Tomic – MP group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Kenan Hajdarevic – MP group LDP, MP Otto Kishmarton – MP of Serbia and National MP Marina Toman – MP of the SRS. I also remind the MPs that the time for each president, or the authorised representative, is 15 minutes, that the time for the parliamentary group is defined by the Rules of Procedure and that each applicant has two minutes at his disposal. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26734	Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, we have proposed this amendment to add a new position 2, which reads: "This law also regulates the position of the Council of the Republic of Serbia for National Minorities." In 2006, the government adopted a regulation that first formed the Republic Council for National Minorities and was expected to define a law that is so ambitious, where all the competences are listed in the national councils, where two concepts or ways of choosing national councils are elaborated, that the Republic Council for National Minorities will also be defined in this law, because we believe that the Republic Council is part of this system for the protection of human and minority rights. So we see no reason why every time the change is made, the Government of the Republic of Serbia makes a new decision, or a regulation on the formation of a council, and it is made every time, because among other things, the President of the Republic Council for National Minorities is acting as Prime Minister. There are also several ministers in the council and there are also the presidents of the national councils of national minorities. So we believe that this law should have been arranged and that very significant body. Especially through the law, you'll see later, we'll add a new chapter, where it's defined and composed, and jurisdiction and how it works, that's how it works. Plus we finally added to the article, which speaks about which regulations or decisions are no longer in force when this law is passed. So we carefully escorted this whole concept. In light of why this amendment is rejected, the reason is – because, God, July 2nd, a new regulation on the formation of this council of the Republic of Serbia for national minorities was adopted. So what makes us think that this should exist in the law, means that no regulations are needed, but should be part of the system, you answer that it is not part of this law because the July 2nd regulation has already been passed, as if the problem is to put some regulation out of force.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26735	It's been used 50 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Vesna Pesic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26736	The LDP has already said several times about this law, that the law is extremely important, that we have waited long for it, that there has been pressure to pass it, and we will vote for this law. We filed one or seven amendments, all these amendments were rejected, and I wanted to comment on it a little bit and repeat some general remarks that I had made the last time the debate was in principle, I said. The first objection to this law is that he is somewhat overregulated and, as counterpart Banovic said, that he is overly detailed. It's not just an observation that something would be noticed, but although when it comes to advice and national minorities, I think more freedom should be allowed, that not all in detail and small intestines should always be regulated, because there should be the possibility and some self-government and freedom of decision. I can point out, and last time I listed, let's say about the number of members of the National Minority Council, where it's strictly defined as 10,000 people per list, to 20,000, to 30,000, 40,000, how much they have the right to have members of the Council, although they can freely decide, let's say, to put themselves between 15 and 35. That's the kind of rigidity I meant. I think it's Article 39, that the minister can, if six months don't call after the election, then disband and make some kind of forced administration. First they could be warned, there are smaller groups that may not have arrived, but no, it's finally and now the minister is disbanding and making some kind of forced administration of the minority world. I think it's too strict, that it just doesn't fit the spirit of the work of minority communities, that it's some exaggerations that can be found here and there, that it's too regulated to get a little arrogance some time, that the state has too harshly and too organized advice, so they don't have enough self-government. That's my first remark. I could even illustrate it, but I won't waste my time on it. The minister can answer why such an approach has been accepted, but we can discuss it later. We may have put a major objection to article 70 when it comes to proposing candidates. We thought it might be a proposed candidate who is a member and other political parties, which means that if he is an LDP, and he is a minority or DS, or any other, that he can be proposed. I think that's what we wanted to point out that it wouldn't be good if we really made a full segregation and made quite a sharp line between minorities and most of them, that there could be some kind of interference between people who are from the majority and some who are from the minority, and this is about minorities. And there could be some kind of mix here, too. Let me give you an example. When we talk about these mixtures, my friend spent her whole life building schools for Roma children in Surdulica and only doing it. Why, as a member of the majority, could she not be suggested if she had devoted herself to the issue all her life? Such strict limits, when it comes to this, are exaggerated and lead to segregation in some final outcome. In light of our amendment to Article 70, you replied this way, that there is no guarantee that after the election for national councils, their proposed candidates will, by political means, in other words, be loyal. That's the answer, you don't believe they'll be loyal to the national minority. Why don't we be loyal? So you're rejecting the possibility of loyalty, rather than being like some saboteurs who would find themselves here to sabotage the interests of a minority group. I think things like that are too much and we still have so much trust, we're all citizens of one state and there's no reason to pretend that someone is going to help a minority and go in there to sabotage that minority. That's about your answer and it sounds a little phobic. I would like to oppose this, and we have also put an amendment to Article 32, where we are asking to pay attention to the conflict of interest and we have added that this Article 32, reads: "A member of the National Council may be a elected member of a national minority who meets the conditions laid down in Article 31 of this Law and does not serve as a member of the People's Parliament, a member of the Government, a president of the municipality, mayor, a councilman, a judge, a prosecutor or a judge of the Constitutional Court." It's not very logical with each other. You refused that a member of the minority, who is a member of another party, could be some kind of saboteur, and here you allow this minority to be in conflict of interest and to work for various other institutions, and to be a member of the People's Parliament, and in doing so you're putting into account this amendment that is very arrogant - the amendment is not accepted to prohibit conflict of interest, although it is contrary to what I just said, so you're contradictory. You're saying that some national councils and some minorities are so small that they don't have enough people, then they can be allowed to conflict of interest. That's what you practically said, that they're incompetent, inexperienced, and because they don't have enough experienced people, then those who are in office should be the ones who will organize and manage. I think it's a little offensive, a little arrogant, that they're not capable but they have to take people in conflict of interest because they're not involved enough. You didn't say incompetent, so I wouldn't insult you, you say they're not involved in performing matters within the jurisdiction of the National Council. Was I born to be involved in being a member of this House? Is anyone by definition involved in being a member of the National Council? This answer seems really a little offensive and unsuitable to me, and this conflict of interest that we have stated, that members of the Council should not perform all of these functions that I have cited, it is really logical, and it is particularly absurd that someone who is a minority, and a member of another party, cannot be proposed because it will not be enough on the minority line, and it can be all of this. It really doesn't have much to do with each other. I think at least this member of the conflict of interest and these objections about segregation could have been accepted, but you didn't accept it, and I don't think that's good. These are some of our two basic objections. There's one member, I don't know if anyone's paying attention, and that's article 16. I wanted to ask you to explain this article to me. I didn't understand him. It reads in the law: ''In cultural institutions whose founder is the Republic, AP or unit of local self-government, which the National Council finds to be of particular importance to preserve the identity of the national minority, the National Council... "What are these cultural institutions where the national minority then determines that they are of importance to their national identity? I couldn't think of what cultural institutions are, and then says they have the right to appoint one member of the board of directors of the institution, give an opinion on the proposed members of the Management Board of the institution, give an opinion on the selection process of the director of the institution. Why should only one, if it is of interest to the national identity of that minority group, give only one member to that board? If it's of interest, for example, to the Roma group, why can't all the members of that board be Roma? I don't see why these others would be when it comes to functions and positions, and that's where they would only put one. Since this is not clear enough, I may not have understood what you had in mind and why only one can now be from a minority on that board, although it is about their national identity, remains completely unclear. There's a lot of this illogicality in the law itself, where sometimes you have a lot of mistrust, that let's say most of them will be saboteurs, and then you put here just one of their representatives to be, which is not why it's like that. I think there remains a problem that other MPs have stated, is it a good solution when it comes to informing that Article 18, that the Republic or the province, the municipality can transfer jurisdiction when it comes to information. It's a really constitutional issue, and I don't think there's a proper solution here either. We're not going to argue with it the way you did, so we don't complicate it because it is a very complicated question, but that question remains. I end up asking for a written statement on nationality in article 101. Also, I say again that the Constitution does not require us to make statements anywhere about our nationality. It is enough for someone to say that he is a member of the minority, not to sign a written statement that he is a member of this or that nationality, because it still threatens the Constitution. I guess so much of the trust that exists in this society and that when someone says that a minority is not completely unknown, it must be written to state what nationality it is. This excess of segregation and nationality, I think maybe it's not good, and then it falls under this box of exaggerated detail, that you've worked out so much, and then you've made a certain mistake and illogicalness.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26737	11 minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26738	In the first part of the debate, I could expect the debate to be fruitful. What has been clear to me from the beginning since we started working on this law that it is quite difficult to understand, above all, because of the fact that it is segmented that it concerns certain areas, that it concerns an institute that we have so far regulated in the Law on the Protection of Freedom and Rights of National Minorities, that in 2006, in the Constitution, we envisioned the existence of this council and that, in fact, the system, as created by this law, can largely be inconceivable. What I can say is that serious effort, sincere effort and good will to do one of these complex constitutional and legal issues is not controversial, and what I can say is that both legal knowledge and skills, which are respected, are also not controversial. I'm only going to answer some of these questions that are principled, and speaking of amendments, we can answer them specifically. The first thing is reregulation. We think it's one of the quality of the law. In order for the minority self-government, which is the new constitutional institute, to be effective, to be clear, must clearly set limits, not powers, but the competence of national councils, because these limits are limits as far as the jurisdiction of the national council goes, and where the powers of the national authorities, the authorities of the province's autonomy or local self-government begin. Without this minority self-government, the work of national councils would be impossible, i.e. they would be insufficiently defined and there would be problems in operation. When I say this, I mean the first national councils that were founded in 2002, the largest number of them was founded in 2002 and 2003, and exactly the practice that exists today. Not because their jurisdiction is not established by law, but because their jurisdiction is not determined precisely. Our basic idea was that only a precise norm could clearly set limits to the jurisdiction of the national council and the boundaries of which crossed the duty and obligation of whether the republican, regional or local self-government authorities. At the end of the line, this precise definition of jurisdiction is one of the things that national councils and their experts, who were hired, only commended, or insisted themselves. Right when something is precisely defined, it's his quality, it's not his fault. Especially in a law that, in this way, an exception, a subsystem system exception, needs to regulate it. I'm not saying that we're not going to be in a position soon to show that we're not going to change things, but not because they're potentially poorly regulated, but because it might prove that in relation to national councils, a republican or a provincial body, this relationship should be balanced in a different way. I accept that, and we all accept it. We all have to be aware of that. Most of these responsibilities, such as these, are the responsibilities that under the 2002 law, under the 2002 regulations, national councils worked. These are not norms that are inexperienced, so in some excessive legal pedantry they're written like this. On the contrary, our idea was that a clear norm could secure this freedom. Our idea was that a clear norm could ensure the functioning of the national council, especially as it was about exemption systems, not only for national councils, but for state authorities. It's very important, according to this, and that's where I'm going to finish this first exposure, that when we define something, it has a complete structure. It is precisely the definition, which is actually something that we have taken from the practice so far, how many national minorities will have electricians, i.e. members of the national council, have been taken over from existing practices and unequivocally and from national councils, but also from lawyers, it is quite clear that the structure must be completed and that, in one fragile practice of the work of national councils, a vague, undefined structure, which can be determined in one way or another, could be the source of instability of the work of national councils. At last, what's most important, we have national communities that are small. Their situation, not only are few, when I say small I mean few, but even have a very high age structure. Their representatives themselves insisted that this fact must be established and respected, and that they do not have a lot of people who, above all, would want to be willing to engage in this way to work and that it would really be a kind of discrimination that people who took some positions in local self-government, state etc. They're not in the National Council right now. That's the argument I've been given and that's the argument behind which I stand. Simply, it is simply like that and absolutely none of the representatives of the national councils have caused any doubt, suspicion or any other feeling, but on the contrary, they felt that flexibility is achieved in this way, based on the fact that some national minorities count five thousand, six thousand people, and some number 200 thousand people, and that this law has to be respected to the greatest extent possible, especially in that functional part, when all national councils must function in a unique way so that what is guaranteed to all national minorities can be regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26739	The word is from Ambassador Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26740	I am pleased that Mrs Vesna Pesic has returned the tension, so to speak, from the principle debate we had, when the minister did not honour the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or by his final words. Remember what it looked like when the minister left the assembly at lightning speed, and he did not favour the MPs to say something and answer our direct questions. We'll all remember. I have to say about this amendment, first of all, it can essentially be like you said, but since it's already been pretensed like this, one detail would no longer mean anything, or to accept this amendment. I appeal to the MPs to accept this amendment, where we ask that the position of the RS council be arranged for national minorities. He is regulated by that regulation. However, I think the law would be strengthened if we talked about this a little bit more. I have to look back on this, Mr. Minister, as you just spoke. I think you've played a little bit of a game in the story of authority and jurisdiction. Powers are being transferred by the state. The competencies are original. The state has nothing to do with jurisdiction. She just wants to transfer powers. We have a problem here that this law gives a lot of jurisdiction, because then, if the national councils get this much authority, the state can be in a big trouble. Mr. Minister, you have spoken one lie. You said the 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities was about jurisdiction. There's not a single jurisdiction in that law. If you're saying there's still one, name one. There's not one. This law is a roof law, or better to say the basic law. This is the foundation. This is all about jurisdiction, and you said that the 2002 law was about jurisdiction. He's not talking about jurisdiction at all. There's a big problem that by politicizing national councils that are in place, don't pretend we don't see, we who are so much in this matter, with all this jurisdiction it becomes special bodies with very great power and influence. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26741	Since the time of the authorised representative, two minutes and 30 seconds have been used. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26742	I really didn't have that chance, and now I hope to answer a few things from the principle debate, which Reverend Tomic listed. Unfortunately, I haven't had a chance, on several occasions you haven't been in the O.R. when I had the chance to talk, but since it's the opening statement to the amendment part, then I can put it this way. I would suggest that on legal terminology, legal knowledge, etc. We're still not opening up the debate. Recently, one professor said that, besides football coaches, only lawyers have more competition over how many people who are not lawyers are being held accountable and speak of the law. Power is part of jurisdiction. It's something that's in law science notorious and that's learned in the first year of law, somewhere in the case of State and Law Theory, somewhere in a piece called Introduction to Law. I wouldn't really want to open a debate here. What is important is that this problem is the 2002 law, which was passed at the time of the SRJ, where the jurisdiction of human and minority rights belonged to the federal state. After that, we have a change of state that is very soon beginning to be called the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, where the same state remains in jurisdiction to regulate human and minority rights. After the state had ceased to exist, and let's not forget, at the time Serbia had a government that was in office, we are actually coming into a situation where there is no Constitution until 2006 that would take over this issue from the law, regulate and provide constitutional and legal basis for the law. Practically from that 2002 law, a large part of the provisions concerning freedom and the rights of national minorities, and mentions national councils, has been taken over in the Constitution and when we talk about jurisdiction, then I am talking about the clear intensity of the 2002 legislator to ensure that these issues, this corpus of freedom and the rights of national minorities are regulated in a way that what stands here is also the competence of national councils. It doesn't say it directly, but it's clear to the lawyer that when it stands in the same law, it should be done. In this regard, the issue of the Republic Council for National Minorities, since he is the Government's authority, and this does not determine the authority of the Government, is then left to do so by a regulation or, which is our idea and which may be the thing we will do in the coming period, to adopt a new law or to implement amendments to the Law on the Protection of Freedom and Rights of National Minorities, where it will be reaffirmed by a more detailed normation of the Republic Council for National Minorities. Something we haven't tried to reconfirm, and first of all for financial reasons, it's a fund for national minorities, which, by the same law, exists, but no one has ever brought him back to life. It's actually an idea. It's a path that, as far as national minority councils are concerned, we will go, therefore, by changing the existing 2002 law or by adopting a new one that will replace it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26743	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26744	I will use the time of the parliamentary group and focus on this amendment. If an amendment is accepted, the name of the law in terms of the subject matter of the law is questioned. If we go from what the Constitution requires that the Government of the Republic of Serbia regulates its organisation and its organs with sublaws, then we can say that there is a kind of inconsistencies, because there are a lot of laws that regulate something that belongs to the Government, so it is done by laws, not regulations on the organisation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That formal-legal aspect I think might be quite an excuse. However, it would be good if, in the follow-up to this search in particular, we did not come out of the frameworks defined both by international acts and by our acts, such as the Constitution, so why not tell the 2002 law, which is in force today. I must draw attention to the fact that we are here in the field of rights that belong to some people, some citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have their own specificity, as it is said, relative to the majority of the population. We are in the field of rights, and now it enters within that part of the declaration of human rights, and it also contains our Constitution and it is contained by all our constitutions, and that everyone simply has to understand that some rights and some freedoms exist independently of whether they are in the Constitution. There are things in nature. Life, can't regulate life by law, like emotions can't be regulated by law or other things. When a state in the form of a legislative body comes into something that is the freedoms and rights of man and individual, then we are only limited to regulate the legal way of achieving a right, since it is right above, we are not even authorized to define it much, because we cannot define it because it is impossible to define all situations where there is a question of freedom or some right. Here we are on a specific field called, if I can use that word, which I think is wrong and ugly, positive discrimination. Since it's an exception to a rule, then it's treated with exceptions by interpreting it extremely restrictively. Since we are in the field of freedom and rights, and we have an obligation to refute something that is a supplement plus, as some say, that something is equal, and that is wrong, because if it were to be accepted, Mr Chiplic, then we would come into a situation to say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is, in principle, one man, one vote mainly, that it is a reflection and a civil society, that then there is a people present in the populist sense of the meaning of that word. In this specificity of national advice, you go to a completely ethnic criterion and even force an ethnic criterion in one country – which is called national and by the organisation of a civil society. You can see how much error can be made if you don't actually access a really restrictive interpretation of something that's constitutional norm. The question is, how much can we get involved in some things? Our Constitution is full of provisions in which it says - members of national minorities are entitled. How this right to be realized must not depend on something that could be envied by terms – authority, part-time work, part-time business, and even the wrong word “indecisiveness”. We're really in the middle of a squawk - deregulation or regulation. I always say that the big regulation is to limit something that is guaranteed as a right, because if we can only arrange a way of exercising the right, so that someone else in the same group is not hurt, that's another question. But basically, this bill is primarily the political interest of those who treat themselves as political leaders. Why is this your opinion, in view of the rejection of this amendment, inconsistencies - because in 2002, by means of a sublegal act, you arranged the matter of the national councils? So, based on the 2002 law, you've solved the issue of national councils by sublaw, you're now regulating it by law, okay, you're regulating it by law, but you're saying -- we can't get into this part where the council, the Republic Council, is on these issues? Where's the thread? You know, I'm afraid today's debate doesn't go the wrong way, that there's no point in political elitism for individuals who consider themselves to have exclusive rights. You will see in the follow-up to this debate, Mrs Pesic gave a very nice example, it seems to me that she mentioned Surdulica, if I understood correctly, and a friend of hers - there is no answer to that question in your bill. Your bill of law, I'm sorry, is a form of "getoization", isolation, unnecessary. We are a civil assembly by choice, and by personal composition, ethnic, cultural, social, whatever you want. Is it possible that here you are manifesting in full capacity what is freedom and human rights, and with national councils, because of some specificity where you insist on "positive discrimination", which means nothing, it is an anti-sub for the universal principle of human rights, I must tell you, and there you go with a completely ghetto, not because of members of the national minority, but because of the elite, only because of the political elite, because they want to mix. They want to mix. The people said they love Sulejman Spaha, and they love Esad Djudjevic. According to this, Suleiman Spaho could not even be a candidate, "under some hypothetical conditions". Why? If we're civil society, we go with equal rights, with equal obligations. Who is it that is authorized to misread the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to carry out its own isolation - we do not want that isolation? All political parties have members of all national minorities, because they have some political views of the society organisation. The issue of specificity, which should exist and which needs to be nurtured in terms of culture, education, information, etc., it is for the state to provide, and we will not cause any problems and there should not be any problems. See any cultural and artistic society, Belgrade, Nis, Vranje – you have games from Vojvodina, games from the Forest, games from Vranj, games from this region, from that. It's a national fortune, and that's what we go around the world with. "Colo" and these other cultural and artistic societies what do they have in their repertoire – everything that is played, every wheel, every dance, everything that is played in Serbia? I just get the impression that it bothers you. Don't make us, don't divide us. There's no need to share us, a team before there's mixed marriages, family relationships, neighborly relationships and all that stuff. Just because of the political elite, I am telling you that only because of the political elite is passed this type of law and exceeds the constitutional authority that exists in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that those powers that are generally concerned by all citizens and what is called "positive discrimination". If you have already accepted the concept of positive discrimination, then interpret it as stated in the Constitution, you have a Article 75, and a Article 80, etc. Do you see that the founder did not say that the national council was an organ, an organisation or something formed, not as an institution, but used the words – they have the right to choose? Why should he not do something that would destroy, which is given in the multitude of “members, ” because in these groups you have people who do not want to, they do not accept? It's like with us what you have – they don't want SRS, some don't want DS, some don't want Sula's party, others love Rasim's party, some don't want Rasim's will, or some in that space vote for my party. No, you want that concentration now, and then only one anti-sub – civil society, civil parliament, and here – ghetto, let specificity be created, and still move on. It's still going on, now it turns out that Kenan can't even be a candidate – that your law, the bill of law makes it possible. Why can't Kenan be a candidate? Who's the one who can rule him out in the beginning, with some solutions, where it's supposed to be talked about how his rights are exercised and the lines crossed? When you regulate a way to exercise some rights, Mr. Chipletic, you know very well that there are certain restrictions, as there are restrictions when it comes to emergency situations, etc. - can't go into the question of the freedom and the rights of a man. I think there's a concept failure here. Of course, the debate will show who proposes better, better quality, more constitutional solutions, taking care of what is primarily the obligation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26745	It's been used 12 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26746	Thank you. The debate is great, because we're checking out solutions. What do the solutions say and what does practice say? National councils are a form that is also freedom, but also a form to be realized or realised, to simplify those constitutional guarantees, those constitutional rights that we can consider to be an affirmative action, which are guaranteed to all members of national minorities. Namely, without national councils, the relationship of members of the national minority, the exercise of its right, the authority of local self-government or the province, has been a regular relationship so far. That relationship wasn't functional. We could have left that relationship the way it was until now in practice, actually until 2002. National councils are in fact a form in which existing rights and honourable MP Krasic is right, which existed before, now for their own name and for their own accounting. So national councils are also a kind of decentralisation of the functions of local self-government, above all, or autonomous province. It's just ideal, motive, practice in all the countries that national councils have. I'm going back to what's very important to me, and that's something that I'm defending as a lawyer, that a clear norm prevents a dilemma, a doubt, prevents the law from being deformed or the law from being done. We have in practice a large number of cases from various areas when a vague norm blocks in one way or another by exercising some jurisdiction, rights, whatever. There is no one, who would be prevented from running, and I stress, that he is running to participate in elections for national councils or to be elected. So it doesn't exist. That's one. Two, if what the honourable MP Pesic said, someone who has contributed greatly to improving the life of Roma, in this sense being a candidate, for example, for elections for the Roma National Council, it is impossible, because that would hurt the purpose and idea of national councils and minority self-government, it is contrary to that nature, however much it works, but it is. Finally, what is very important is whether political elites are built through national councils? Yes, it's not even controversial and it's natural, but don't forget one thing, from 16 existing national councils, so so far, 16 existing national minorities who have formed national councils, the smallest number have political parties with a national sign and not only people who are members of national parties, political parties with a minority sign participate in their work. In most cases, we have national councils involving people regardless of whether or not they belong to a political party. We politics, and I'm a little bit honest with you, and it's weird that in Parliament, a couple of excellations to the political body, we have anything against political parties or against, let me say, the politicization of a single body that's a couple of excellencies in itself politically, because it's part of decentralisation of a state function. That's how it works, and that's how it's always gonna work. It's in the nature of the national council, only in specific areas. That's how it is with us and where we don't have political parties, that's how it is in countries that have national councils, that's how it will be, and it's nothing unnatural or anything negative. At the very end of the line, many members of the national minorities who are few, precisely this building, whether political or intellectual elites expect work and the functioning of the national council, are the very few. It is, personally, an effect that is good and that we can expect, and what I fear is the abuse of freedom. We can't regulate this abuse of freedom. This abuse of freedom stands at the will of those who exercise freedom. We can't ban that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26747	The word is from Ambassador Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26748	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will return to your reply, Mr. Minister, which you gave to Mrs. Vesni Pesic about the insanity of this law. Our criticism when we talk about insanity, us from the LDP, is not going towards the jurisdiction of national councils. We have said in principle that we will support this law precisely because this law defines the competences of future national councils, the way of funding and the way of elections. Our criticisms are heading right for a way of choosing to be crazy, in that part. Earlier in your response, Vesna Pasic, you said that this law defines the competences of national councils in one part, followed by the competences of state authorities. Under the bill of this law, you say that we, members of national minorities, who are members of parties that are not parties to national minorities, can participate in the performance of all state functions in this second level, as members of these parties, and if we want to exercise the competence of national councils, then we must go to run as groups of citizens, as members of some fictitious associations, to go register some fictitious associations, so that we can participate in these elections. The arguments you use when responding to SRS MPs and the arguments you use when responding to our criticism are opposed. Exactly what you were just telling Mr. Krasic we're telling you when we defend our amendments. You cannot ban this bill from members of national minorities, who are members of other parties, running in these elections as members of these parties. In light of the amendments we have made, you say there is no guarantee that after the elections for national councils, their proposed candidates will be held accountablely, experiencedly accessing the preservation, promotion and protection of national minorities. Who can say that? What's the norm, which is the apparatus that can determine that? You're still saying that they're going to act in accordance with the statute and program of the party that ran them? So what? In what you have answered, you say that parties that do not have the name of a national minority absolutely cannot represent the interests of national minorities. That's what it says in this answer. This is an inadmissible answer. This response may be even more insulting to us members of national minorities who are members of other parties, because we who have entered politics through civil parties, for example. Personally through the LDP, I represent among other things the interests of my national minority through the LDP. The LDP received a number of votes and members of the national minorities, so those members of the national minorities did not vote for LDP only because of the economic programme, so if we want to talk about the rights of national minorities, then we will vote for another national party. That's inadmissible. You've noticed, Mr. Minister, this is not a legal question, this is a political issue. With this law you want to concreteize one political, or national elite of national minorities. That's the problem with this law, which we point out, because just as we advocate that at the level of the Serbian state there are multi-party elections, we are asking that there are multi-party elections within these national councils. Imagine, you say some small national minority with only one party. Then what have we got? We have elections involving one party and some associations of citizens. That's inadmissible, Mr. Minister. You have to take care of that, because by proposing these laws, you create a minority within a minority. When such a bill is passed, in fact, me and my colleagues from parties that are not party to national minorities will become double minorities, minorities and under the Constitution, but also minorities within our minorities, according to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26749	Five minutes and 15 seconds have been spent using the time of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really must engage in controversy with Mr. Chiplic because of this statement that national councils should be a couple of excellencies of political bodies. First of all, Mr. Chiplet, I think you'll agree with the flaw because you're a kind of legal theorist, we would, if we put Article 1 under a sharp legal bat. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we could not claim that Serbs in the Republic of Serbia are the majority people, and that all other members of some national minorities. Why? Because right now, Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines the Republic of Serbia as a state of the Serbian people, but at the same time as a state of all other citizens living in it. So the state of Serbia is not an exclusive state of Serbs, but is like the state of Serbs and the states of Hungarians, Albanians, Bulgarians, Romanians, Slovaks, all those who are its citizens, regardless of their ethnic background. So, as you can see, the notion of the majority itself and the minority is not as simple as it seems at first sight. Secondly, I am really surprised by your finding that national councils should be political bodies and that you are surprised that MPs belonging to certain political parties are against national councils being politicised, i.e. against national councils being political bodies. There are differences, Mr. Chiplic, between the political party's concept and the concept of the national council. What are national advice or what are they supposed to be? This is what you, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, wrote in Article 1. Proposal for a law on national councils of national minorities. This law regulates the responsibilities of national councils of minorities in the fields of culture, education, communication and official use of languages and letters. Find me a provision in this article that speaks of politics. The essence of every political party, that you, Mr. Ciplic, know as well as I do, each political party has only one tendency, to win power one day, to be in power in one state and to be able to achieve its political, economic, social and cultural programme from the position of government. That's the definition of a political party. If national councils have the same purpose, then explain to me the difference between the political party and the national council. Then either there should be only political parties or political parties should be abolished, so only national councils should be educated instead. You must not be allowed, Mr. Chipplic, to be some kind of political organization. They're not exactly political parties, but they're around here somewhere. That's exactly what you're doing to members of the national minorities. There is no need to put national councils in the same line with political parties. Be careful, members of the national minorities, if we accept the government's concept that there are majority nations in Serbia and there are minority communities, therefore, minority communities in Serbia would have their rights even if there were no national councils. Why? The constitution guarantees it. The constitution guarantees members of national minorities that they can be informed in their own language, that they can study in their own language, that they can cultivate their own history, culture, tradition, faith, to maintain ties with their people in their home country and in all other countries, that the Constitution guarantees, to each individual citizen of the Republic of Serbia, whether there are national councils or not. So, I also said in the principle debate, you claimed that only the 2006 Constitution guaranteed something you call minority self-government. It's not. And the 1990 constitution, however declared unilateral, Milosevic, anachron, communist, etc., guaranteed the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia according to the highest European standards and there are no dilemmas. The 2006 constitution also guarantees in a slightly different way, in a slightly broader way, but basically national minorities also had every possible human and minority rights under the 1990 Constitution. Even if national councils were not educated in 2002 and 2003 in a way that was semi-legal, members of national minorities would still have their rights. Today in 2009, if there were no national councils or Hungarians or Slovaks or Muslims, all these minority communities would still have their rights, because these are inalienable rights under the Constitution, unrelated to whether there are national councils or some other form of organisation of these minority communities. If I understand correctly, not only does the government not run away from the idea that national councils are political organisations, but the government wants to knowingly, deliberately wants to politicise national councils, that national councils are not only organizations that protect culture, tradition, language, religion, but that they are political organisations. What can that get into, Mr. Chipple? That tomorrow national councils participate in the elections, in local, parliamentary elections, to have their candidate as President of the Republic? Then it's no longer national advice, then it's political organizations. If that was the government's intensity, then it should have been in Article 1 and not in Article 1 -- national councils are educated in the fields of culture, education, intelligence and official use of language and letter, and then you come as an authorised representative of the Government and say yes, but national councils are a couple of excellencies of political bodies. If it's a political body or a political organisation, then there's only one purpose, to fight for power. Political parties are fighting for power. That's why you have a division of the ruling and opposition parties. The opposition party is the one who is currently not in power, but would like to come to power to achieve its programme of social order. If that is the intensity and national councils, then there is no difference between the political party and the national council at all. Then this law is unnecessary, and then all these national councils' actions need to be applied to the norms of another law, the Law on political parties. But then it has nothing to do with national councils anymore, then it completely deviates from that concept that the government is nominally favouring after 5 October 2000, that national councils should be exclusively organisations, i.e. bodies that protect national, religious, racial and cultural identity of the rights of members of national minorities. This finding of yours today, that national councils are the form of a political organisation of national minorities, is something that is news to me. However, I felt it in the norms of your bill that you wanted to drag it between the ranks, but thank you for now decitingly confirming that the National Council for the Government of Serbia is actually an extended arm of a political party that has a minority omen. Then really the politicisation of national minorities reached its peak and nothing else in that direction really can be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26751	Eight minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26752	Dear fellow Members and MP Martinovic, we had a common argument and we agreed until a certain moment and a certain moment. Namely, no one has said that national councils are by their own nature a political party, since it is actually controversial in the debate, whether political parties should be empowered to run. What is indisputable, that the nature of national councils, as it has been so far, we do not change this nature, therefore, that the nature of national councils, as it has been so far, is something that we can say that it is a kind of decentralisation, and I said that, the authorities of local self-government or the bodies of an autonomous province, sometimes even some authorities of the Republic. So, for their own account and for their own responsibility, they do jobs that are otherwise done by certain organizations or parts of local self - government. First of all, I mean education and culture. The life of national councils is life at the bar. That fact itself, these jobs, since they are taken over by local self-government or by the authority of the autonomous province's administration, and you will agree, have a political element. I can't imagine what a norm would be, or what a way of functioning a national council without politics. I just said, and we will all agree, that given the nature of the business, in the character of the national council, in the way of choice, as it has been so far, as it will be with direct elections, the political element in life, which is not legal norm, is not legal character, the political element is natural, as it has been so far. Except to say, which is impossible because it would be a violation of the Constitution, that political parties are forbidden to have their candidates for national councils. Then we could agree that in principle the political party will not be able to run, but we would also agree that through groups of citizens of the political party would do so. Is it actually possible to see a model where the national council is depolitized, so it has a political element even when there are no political parties in it. It's actually one question that when you face it, you can't solve it, but you see how it worked and what contributes to it. At the end of the line, representatives of the national councils, I said, a third of them, when we look at all 16 statistical, national parties, a third belong to parties that do not have national and a third marks, are not in political parties, but are mixed in this structure in all national councils. It is something that is fact and I personally don't see by any standard that when this Parliament adopts the law, the national council will be anything other than what the law says, and I especially don't see that the national council will be anything other than what members of the national minorities themselves want to be. It will be their work, it is their responsibility and, what is very important, we agree on that, I said, in terms of the minority body, this constitution, as well as the 2003 Constitutional Charter, as well as the 1990 Constitution, almost guarantee the same rights. The only difference is in that body that makes up a minority self-government, which is called a national council, and nothing more, but all of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26753	The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26754	Writing this law must have been a pain in the ass. It is evident that great effort has been made and I believe that all this has been done to improve or maintain the existing position of members of national minorities. Although we also see that, despite the great effort, there are many unresolved problems in this law, there are many inaccuracies, although many members of national minorities, national councils, are said to fully support this law, we see that more than 150 amendments have been submitted. The amendments were submitted by members of the ruling parties, as well as by opposition parties. And our party has submitted amendments to the proposed law. The aim of our amendments is also to fix this law for members of the national minorities. There are things that cannot be fixed, that is, how this law will liven up, how it will work, we will only see whether this law will bring about any improvement in the position of members of national minorities. Not improvements in politicians belonging to individual national minorities, but to my neighbor, a member of one or another national minority. What is it after the adoption of this law that citizens belonging to national minorities will notice that there has been some improvement in them? Today, positive discrimination has also been mentioned in favour of national minorities, so as we talk about positive discrimination, the minister should say clearly what it is. It is known to me, but to hear what positive discrimination is about, because there is no, in my opinion, positive or negative discrimination. If we positively discriminate, we do so in his favor, in this way we damage someone else. In my opinion, it is best that in Serbia all citizens have equal rights and equal obligations towards this country. No one needs to have rights that don't belong to him. That is why I would like the minister, when I am finished, to explain what it says is a positive discrimination for members of the national minority. Another problem that has arisen in this law, in the opinion of other MPs, as well as in my opinion, is that this law will lead to members of the national minority getting their rights which they will be able to exercise if in the city the majority of the population of a national minority is in that village, in that town, in that environment, smaller or larger. I think that's a big problem, too, if we give the right to national minorities and we say here, these are your rights, here you can have in this part of your school, your theater or other institutions, that's where you live. It's a national minority separation. I believe that national minorities have the exact same rights, the same rights as all citizens. If a member of a national minority can go to any part of Serbia to get a job, to live, to work, and no one tells him – you belong to that and that national minority, you are in that part of Serbia and there is your place, there you work, you have the right to speak your language there, etc. So, I think it can come, it doesn't have to be that, we may vote for this law, but this law can also bring some problems to the members of the national minority, or it may happen that with this law there are some divisions among citizens, divided as is said by members of the same national minority, that we will have members of the national minority of the first order, belonging to a national minority, as well as members of the national minority of second order who are not in that national council, or who did not vote to elect that national council. As for the election of members of the National Council, we have submitted some amendments. Our amendments have not been adopted, although we intend to fix that law have submitted these amendments. Otherwise, not to be a dilemma, there is no one against the rights of national minorities and our party absolutely supports the right of members of national minorities to express, safeguard, cultivate languages and letters, preserve tradition, culture, as well as religious specialities. It's our wealth, and it's not just how they stand out, it's how they separate people, it's how they connect. Another question would be for the minister, what is it that after the adoption of this law to members of non-political national minorities, those who are on the council will probably be better off, but to ordinary citizens, what is what a member of the national minority in my street will have under this law, and so far has not. In Kikinda, we had a theatre in Hungarian, we had a school in Hungarian. If now at the entrance to kickinda instead of - kickinda will write on Hungary's Najkkinda, I don't think we'll be much happier than that, until all citizens live better, until there's work for all citizens, the position of members of the national minorities will hardly be fixed. Secondly, this law requires a great deal of money for all that should be done under this law. I agree that it needs to be fulfilled that all people and citizens live normally, and I think this law would be fulfilled that it will take a lot of money.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26755	It's been used 7 minutes and 15 seconds since the time for an authorised representative. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really need to replicate Mr. Chiplic. Mr. Minister, you like to use one syntax - minority self-government. You're saying this law allows some form of decentralisation. I'd say this is one form of personal autonomy. This and similar form of personal autonomy had its own time in the Habsburg monarchy. Is that right? They had their churches, their schools, their religious and national institutions, which protected their identity in a country that was predominantly Roman Catholic and in which their identity was objectively in danger of being lost. Serbs in the Habsburg monarchy did not participate in Austria and Hungary's political life through their churches and schools, but through certain aspects of political organisations, in a completely different way. Serbs participated in political life both Austria and Hungary, but either as members of Austrian and Hungarian political parties. Here's an example, Jakov Ignatovic, the first Serbian literary realist, was a member of a Hungarian political organisation, but he was no less a Serb. So you have to distinguish between organizations whose fundamental task is to protect the national, religious, cultural identity of one community and another entirely other form of organization that is fighting for power. You persistently, I don't know whether it's intentional or it's your political concept, you're trying to ease the difference between these two types of organization and that difference goes away. I have to say something that is, above all, the opposite of the SRS program and ideologies. The reasons that you, or the government, have given Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic's amendment and the reasons for my amendment, otherwise the arguments are identical, this is, no offense to Mr. Minister, slap and SRS, and DS, and SPS, and LDP and DSS. Be careful as the argument is: the amendment is not accepted, there is no "racio legis" that political organisations that have in their name a sign of a national minority or a statute are not defined as political organisations that gather or act in the interest of members of the national minority propose electoral lists. Further sentences that are indeed scandalous, there is no guarantee that after the elections for national councils, their proposed candidates will, with political means, take a responsible and experienced approach to the preservation, promotion and protection of national minorities, if they have to act in accordance with the statute and programme of the candidate party, which does not even mention the rights of national minorities. Mr. Minister, do you think in the SRS, DS, the DSS, there are no provisions guaranteeing the rights of national minorities? Do you think that we who are not members of the political parties that have a minority sign don't care about the rights of national minorities? How is it possible, at all, Mr. Minister, that a political organisation is registered in the register of the competent ministry which, according to its programme and statutes, does not care about the rights of national minorities? Are you aware of the far-reachingness of this argument of yours? It turns out that only the political party, which, according to its statute and its minority character programme, is concerned by the definition of the rights of the national minority and that no other political party does so. What does that mean? Tomorrow when the SRS comes to power, it will trample the rights of national minorities. You say that indirectly because, in your opinion, there are no parts in our program relating to the rights of members of the national minorities, which is absolutely not true. The personal composition of the SRS parliamentary group deny it. Simply, we have MPs who are not Serbs, but also how they take care of the rights of Serbs, Hungarians, Slovaks, Muslims, Roma and all others. Mr. Minister, please stop while you have time, and you as Minister and your government. What you want to do is really one typical ghettoization of members of national minorities. You want to push national minorities into the hands of only certain political parties and say, only the political parties of national minorities have the deed to the rights of national minorities, only they have the exclusive right to fight for those rights, and all of you are expelled from that process and you have nothing to look for. No national minority or any other minority in Serbia should be the political property of any political party. As a man, I do not agree that the political parties of Hungary prefer Hungarians to me. They don't like them, because if it's good for the Serbs in this country, it'll be good for the Hungarians. If it's not good for the Hungarians, it won't be good for the Serbs either. Do not artificially create divisions among Serbian citizens. That's what this government keeps doing. You see what your political like-mindeds in Vojvodina say. They say to members of national minorities -- you're having a hard time living because you don't have enough degree of autonomy. You're being exploited by Serbs. What do they say to Serbs? You're having a hard time living because the Hungarians want to help the entire Vojvodina and they want to banish you from the Vojvodina. These are dangerous findings. Don't play with the fire. Serbs, Hungarians, Muslims and Roma in this country are having a hard time living, not because Hungarians exploited me as a Serb or me as a Serb, but because the Serbian government is not leading a responsible economic and social policy. Instead of solving economic problems, to be good to everyone, you further fuel the political atmosphere in Serbia, by telling the Serbs -- your economic situation is blamed by the Hungarians, and you tell the Hungarians - your difficult situation is the fault of the Serbs. It's a very dangerous political game.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26757	Six minutes and 50 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26758	Sometimes I don't find the best argument, and I can't figure out how we're coming up with certain attitudes, but I'll try to simplify the story and solve every dilemma by reading the Constitution. Article 75(3) in a very simple and completely clear way is said what minority self-government is. Serbia's Constitution: In order to exercise the right to self-government (own-government right) in culture, education, communication and official use of language and letters, members of national minorities can choose their national councils, in accordance with the law we are adopting today. Nothing clearer, anything simpler, or even for those who are not lawyers, that this must be resolved in a way that Article 75(3), which this constitutional norm must realise, therefore, is the freedom that is guaranteed by the Constitution. There's a few things to point out. First, I can choose, and not - they have to choose. It is freedom for members of the national minorities to determine whether or not they want to do so. The state of Serbia, as our country, as our country, is obliged to prepare itself to give mechanisms for this right to be realised and there is nothing disputed here, it is our obligation. In the legal order, this obligation has existed since 2002, since then the adoption of the procedure law to elect a national council has been announced. Since 2006, the legislator has been obliged not only to do the way national councils will be elected, but what he will be able to do, as the Constitution speaks of areas. We can argue whether, as the founder in the same article says, something decision-making or participation in the decision-making process, whether what the law offers is more or less in agreement with the authority to decide or participate in the decision-making process. We can't argue that there can't be a ghettoization of what's in the Constitution. The Constitution prescribes freedom. How someone's gonna do that freedom, I agree, can lead to ghettoisation, but that's why we can't ignore that freedom. That freedom is constitutional and there is no dilemma. What is very important is whether and how this freedom will be enjoyed, how it will be executed depends on members of the national minorities. It's their responsibility. There'll be no ghettoisation, because no one's until the ghettoisation. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this Parliament pass a law on national councils, they do not do so to getoise any national minority, but to realise the constitutional freedom set out in Article 75(3). The Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26759	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Time is available to the parliamentary group for 40 minutes and five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26760	I think it's a good thing Mr. Chiplic is active in this discussion and he's opening up topics and showing us the real background of this and this kind of bill. Mr. Chipplic, you indirectly said that you were experiencing decentralisation as well as deetatisation, and then you went one step further, so you confirmed something that we've been trying to admit from the beginning. You've well quoted the attitude of the 3rd Article 75, where it's said, they can choose. You out of that, you can choose, you make an institution. It doesn't, the Constitution doesn't allow it. Something can be a semi-institution related to Article 80, where it's about culture and education. Watch out, where are you making an even bigger mistake? In that article that you quoted, the tax rights are listed, probably 90% of these rights are directly exercised. Their enjoyment does not require any institution, and you are unconsciously telling us about these four areas. We will agree, this bill refers to four areas: culture, education, information and use of the official language. I am absolutely certain that the use of the official language is regulated, there is nothing more to regulate the level of the republic, at the level of the province, at the level of local self-government, regulated. The enjoyment of that right cannot depend on the national council. Who's guaranteed to enjoy that right? A state with its institutions. Are you saying that there are no state institutions in the fields of culture, education and public information? When I say state, I mean republican, then regional institutions and institutions of local self-government, where these rights are respected and where these rights are exercised. There are. Then the question arises if national councils can be chosen, for which he could be further authorised, competent, what would be his workaround. You'd be for something plus they'd be admitted to. For that plus their confessions, you can't transfer state powers. Who authorized you to transfer state powers to the fields of culture, information, education to national councils that are defined as being able to choose. It's not - it's a nightmare. There's no obligation. There's a commitment to the state. The state has completed its obligation more or less successfully. There's room for a story of scope, etc. Nobody slows it down. But you're now carrying something that's absolutely state, province, locally, in the system of the Constitution of the prescribed organs to something that is -- they can choose. You're making an institution unnecessary. So you're still building an institution that's going to take state money, and the Constitution says in Article 80 they can voluntarily go towards something that's going on. Well, then you go two or three steps further, so you forbid anyone else to participate, if what you say, in political life, at the level of national councils. It's all messed up. Written for the political elite. Written because of those who, in each election, condition a coalition government, set out some of their demands regarding the statutes relating to the boards of directors related to this. Look what you're doing. You passed the Political Party Act a few months ago. You have promoted something or confirmed that in 2004, some mistake entered our law, the political parties of the national minorities. Look at the political party of national minorities as defined and see what is defined as a national council. There's no difference in definition. In the law on political parties - the political party of the national minority is a political organisation of voluntary citizens who in its programme has an action to preserve cultural specificities, educational specialities, artistic specialities, notification, use of the official language. It's the same definition for national council and you say it's not ghettoisation. No, it's a ghettoization on the burden of all taxpayers' money. Why? Because someone has made an assessment, and someone has long been making an assessment since 1991, of the first multiparty elections, and is being added in a very unprincipled way to the political elite of some national minorities in order to achieve coalition capacity. Then they enter into some pre-election negotiations, make a government, and they can't do what they promised, and then we have every 15 days, a month of conditioning, we're going to leave the session, we're not going to vote for that set of laws, we're not respected our interest in information, our interests aren't respected about the court's schedule, and they all vote in the end. I ask the question, how much did it cost? How much was it for taxpayers to vote for something? Just to remind you of the case in this assembly here, one representative of a political party objected that it was not finished with the televisions at the place, so Boris Tadic told him that he had violated all the measures, so I had to jump and defend this man from Boris Tadic, and he's in the coalition. Where are the members of the national minorities? They're nowhere to be found. The interests of the elite, you cannot drive them out of Belgrade. They came to Belgrade once, and they think for life they are MPs, both MPs' presidents and political party presidents. They're the elite that represents some of the interests of some people there, etc. You make it an institution. You're inserting into the system to fund the state. What? The coalition capacity of a party that counts on being in power, with absolute violation of everything and everything, and by this law you recognise something that does not exist, that the right to inform, in terms of culture, education, the use of the official language is not sufficiently solved, is not guaranteed to members of national minorities in Serbia, so it is necessary to switch to that, they can choose. From what is likely to be the farthest possible with an advisory opinion on issues concerning the area, you give literally state jurisdiction. There's the right fellow who said -- you're making new jurisdiction for something that doesn't exist, which shouldn't be in that form if it did exist. It could exist as a forum, as a place where some interests are expressed, where some proposals are formed, where suggestions are given, where opinions are given and nobody is slow, but you are building an institution -- an unnecessary, unnecessary institution. One more thing, Mr. Chiplet. Are you getting lost, are you really wrong? Again, I return you to the example Mrs. Pesic brought here. In response to this and in response to these amendments, Martinovic and Kenanov, you showed in fact - what criteria do you use to define a nation? Everyone was attacking us from the SRS, banging everything against us, hitting labels, etc. And everything fell into the water. You probably know that the dominant in language theory is as a criterion. Today is the dominant personal feeling and commitment of man. An absolute personal definition of man. It's not the origin, it's not the language, it's not the birthplace, it's not the parents, it's what the man says. Someone can say he's American, and you have to accept that he's American. That's his feeling. You even go beyond that, when you could say that I will not take anyone to misread my words -- a member of a national minority in a political party, an essential political party, cannot represent the interests of a national minority in Serbia. So I generally represent the interests of all national minorities in Serbia. You know how -- by fighting for human rights in a general and absolute way towards everyone, by fighting every form of discrimination? I fight more than those who think that some representatives are a national minority – more because I care about Serbia being a powerful, strong, strong, desirable place for everyone. Like I love all the athletes, and the one who missed the goal, because my athlete, like every singer I love, I love every actor. Every actor from our space is the best actor in the world, so no matter who he is, what he is. Now you're telling me that someone who keeps their specifics is in, and we're all a car. Now Kenan can't represent the interests of all the people in Priboj, Suleyman Spaho can't represent all of Loznica, Marina Tomman, so everyone knows her as a member of the SRS. Sulejman Spah is all known as a member of the SRS, so only in second or third place is something else. I see everything here as a people's messenger. I've never spoken to anyone in any other context. But no, you have to warm something up, you have to show something to the world. What are you showing the world? To overstep something that exists in our Constitution and go further than anyone on the globe has left anything behind. In doing so, you act so gallantly, and we simply don't know if we need to read you the data of what the situation is, let's say, in our immediate environment, when it comes to the Serbian people. Then what would you say? So our criticism is based primarily on strict respect for something that is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is quite well regulated. To remind you, all the solutions went, he asked for someone to go into check, the Venice Commission, Brussels, and everyone praised the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and you have no right to go outside the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What are all the possible abuses, I also had the opportunity to watch a film about Treshnyvac from 1992, when they made up the Cincar Republic and when they made up the Cincar Republic consulate in Germany, and tanks around some place, and mobilization, and some nonsense, and the news invented, so fictional that even Nenad Canak didn't know about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26761	12 minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26762	Mr. Minister, you were answering the MP Martinovic, wanting to tell him what minority self-government is, you didn't answer anything else. You quoted Article 75(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where you say, is so - that members of national minorities, in order to exercise the right to self-government in culture, education and information and to make official use of language and letter, can choose their national councils, etc. Our question was also in the principle debate, you never answered it once, where do you draw the right for national councils to set up companies, to manage public institutions? There's no mention of the word "business" here. The establishment of companies is, in my opinion, an anti-constitutional category of this law. What does "business" mean? It is one member who goes a little later and we have submitted the amendment, but the fact is that there is a spread of authority and jurisdiction in the spirit of what other opposition MPs have just said. No one tells the Ministers about ghettoisation, there's talk of politicization here. Are national councils politicized and how? You haven't answered many questions in the principle debate. One of them was - did you meet one of the only Hungarians in Novi Sad who supported the decision to move the "Majar Soa" to Subotica. There isn't one, I hope there's no difference in opinion. These political elites that the previous speaker spoke of are doing everything, and you're going to meet them -- precisely that they getoise themselves, even in relation to their national minority. There are millions of examples about it. You're speeding up their appetites, that's what it's all about. And a parapolitical organization is being created through the National Council. This law has, in fact, run into the embrace of their desires with wide open arms, that's what this is all about. They're not political parties, but they have all prerogatives as political parties, and they're looking for power and influence -- you're giving them a spoon. Now, for God's sakes, through this law, you're giving them more and more importance, so tomorrow they can act as a business and rich and as a political society, as a political organization. There's the main problem, there's the biggest problem that national councils are politicized. Give me a national advice in which there is no man that is not a party member or that is not very close to the largest parties of these national minorities. We heard here an example of Jacob Ignatovic, who acted politically in one way, in one way in the Hungarian party, and as a Serbian for the rights of Serbs in Hungary he acted in another way. Can that happen here? A law like this can't happen. You're making a big problem here. You give these political elites of these national councils wind in the back - to master their own space in the fields of culture, education, communication, official use of language and letter, but to the gods and management of public institutions, but to the gods and businesses, etc. That's the basic reason, with a lot of other small ones, but that's the basic reason why we can't support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26763	Three minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time available to the authorised representative. The word has Minister Chiplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26764	I'm more than happy that we're going to discuss the most prominent, most controversial points of this law at the very beginning, so I expect that later we'll go both easier and faster and we'll remove the doubts that possibly exist. Namely, I remembered that the main objection to unconstitutionalness, or the most unconstitutional, and I'm saying that I've never heard so many assessments of unconstitutionalness as here, and at least I've heard them in the Constitutional Court of Judges. We've been holding back a lot from estimating and saying that something is unconstitutional. If you remember, last week there was this debate, and here we have about the remark that I didn't respond, but with a purely personal slip, about whether a written statement by someone, as a written statement in the run, is something that is acceptable or not, that is. that if a person is declared, then Article 47(2) is cited on which national minority belongs, or what its nationality is, that it violates the Constitution. Since it intrigued me and I looked at the stenographic notes, yes, that's true, but it all stands as an answer in the first position of this article 47, which says that the expression of nationality is free. If anyone wants to, he'll do it, and if anyone doesn't, he won't. One more thing, it is simply a assumption that someone would use constitutional rights to measure affirmative action, therefore, to use constitutional guarantees concerning minorities. He has to say he's a minority. He can't use them anonymously. Why is this written confirmation? We had in mind the practice that appeared in countries in an environment that had national councils, in Hungary and Croatia. If this freedom is too wide-ranging and only oral recognition of someone can be sufficient confidence, but it has happened that members of a national minority have spoken orally as members of another national minority and won theirs simply because of a larger number, a national council. Since it is a matter of freedom to be considered a member of a particular national minority and a border to be set by the state, but that border must not be strong so that freedom is not threatened, simply, a border that implies that the national council is authentic, we had to take a written statement, to provide for a written statement that it belongs to that national minority, not to appear as a signator or as a candidate for elections in another national council or not to apply for a special vote list. It's a minimal assumption that we've accepted without going into those solutions that exist in the environment, which require confirmation that someone is or is not what they think they are. These are key arguments. What's very important, is our assumption, we can talk about it later, that the largest financial resources, by nature of things, will go now for the elections, which are definitely coming, because they are, by the way, two years out of office, almost three years out of office because there was no law. The operation, as it has been so far, does not change anything, in size or in the structure of the national council, since it has not changed even the number of a national minority. Therefore, in order to function, since all the powers they have already done are provided for in the law, the financial resources will not need to be allocated more than they have so far, but the fact is, it is the security of one freedom, to follow the elections for national councils under the deadlines set and that these costs will certainly be borne by the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26765	The word is Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26766	I was going to say that we should really move on to effective work by members. Indeed, this debate has received very broad and philosophical dimensions. The only thing we wanted to tell you is that when it comes to article 70, you accept the amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, LDP and you throw out this -- national minorities, to free what we're talking about, that it can participate in the council and that member of the minority who is a member and some other political party. It means you're not setting a line here. You could simply accept that, especially when we have read this argument twice, where you suspect that belonging to another political party in Serbia, the Socialist Party, to any other one, means the sabotage of the minority and that we have something against minorities, as if we are not in favour of their rights. So in order to free us from such an argument, you could accept and throw it out and this whole debate would be completely unnecessary. Why didn't you accept that? I urge you to accept that again. Secondly, what you just instructed about a member of the 101st candidateship, to make a written statement about nationality. You see, all this controversy, and constitutional, world and European, global when it comes to the UN, minorities of different species are discriminated against by groups. All this debate and what we're talking about today wouldn't be that certain races, certain religions, some ethnic minorities weren't discriminated against. So that's the origin of it. My intervention was in the following, that some minorities who are discriminated against, who are weak, can also use the majority members to be their fighters against their discrimination. This is where I refer to the history of mankind. Do you think he could ever be African-American, say black, elected president of the United States, that there was no involvement in the fight for the rights and abolition of discrimination against black people in America? Were they the only ones involved? Imagine someone reasoning like you and saying -- no, no, you're white, you can't participate in fighting for black rights. How's that? Or in South Africa, great contributions were because they worked against discrimination together, both of them. That's why I said that some just discriminated groups don't have to use their own energy, their minority groups, but they can also use the energy of human rights fighters and discriminated minorities. That's why it doesn't have to stand, let's say - I'm a member of that and that group at the candidacy. It doesn't have to stand. Why are you so strict? Let some minorities also benefit from majority people in the fight for their rights, and we know that such minorities in Serbia still have and these are very small interventions that fit the world's trend. Women's rights wouldn't have been achieved if they didn't give men support, too. So we fight together and it could be removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26767	Mrs. Pesic, the time for your parliamentary group has been used. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here's how deep you and your government are wrong to testify and the one text I received 20 minutes ago, and it was directed to me by Mr. Zoran Stojanov, president of the SRS Municipal Committee in Bosilegrad, otherwise Bulgarian. He says this - everything you said a few minutes ago, I said on June 26th at a press conference and on July 24th at the local assembly. I am in Bosilegrad a true fighter for the rights of the Bulgarian national minority, while the national council is not heard, and it only chews up money. So, as you can see, Mr. Minister, who is fighting for the rights of national minorities and who is not fighting. That question isn't as simple as it looks to you at all. You have made it as simple as possible - for the rights of national minorities they have the right to fight only political parties who are gathering members of a national minority and for you this thing ends. As you can see, that's not true at all. Let me give you an example from our Serbian sad history. You heard for sure about this man, there was a Hungarian, and a street is named after him in Novi Sad, Baichi Zilinski. An MP in the Hungarian parliament who publicly had the courage to speak, to stand up for the rights of the Serbian people in January 1942 when Hungarian fascists threw ice in the Danube near Novi Sad Serbs in that infamous raid. In the defence of Serbs, a Hungarian MP stood up and deserved to be named after him one street in Novi Sad. You know what the Prime Minister of Hungary did, Pal Teleki? The same protest against the killings of Serbs, killed by Hungarian fascists in December 1944. Again, you had some Serbs calling for the time of NATO aggression - just hit Serbia, the more NATO bombs fall, the sooner Slobodan Milosevic will fall. As you can see, it's not that simple at all. Secondly, you have quoted to us here the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 75 of attitude 3 - for the exercise of the right to self-government in culture, education, communication and official use of language and letters, members of national minorities can choose their national councils. It's okay. But what does Mr. Minister have to do with the provision of article 75, with your argument that there is no guarantee that after the election for national councils, candidates of other political organisations, who do not have national omens, will be responsible and experienced in accessing the preservation, promotion and protection of national minorities, if they have to act in accordance with the statute and programme of the party that has run them, and in which there is no mention of the rights of national minorities? I'm telling you, I can say on behalf of the SRS, let the MPs of other political parties say on behalf of their parties, I say this is not true. The SRS programme mentions the rights of members of national minorities and we see this as an insult to the SRS account. So there is no Serbian government right to say that the rights of members of national minorities are only fought by political parties that have minority omens. Where did you get that right? Who gave the Serbian government the exclusive right to say -- you're fighting for the rights of members of national minorities, and you're not fighting? History shows you that sometimes members of another nation are fighting more for the rights of a national minority than I am a member of a national minority. So, the Constitution is clear. Article 1 of your bill is clear. Now I have to remember a Latin proverb, when they asked the fox why he didn't go into the lion's den, and she says I'm afraid of tracks, because I see animals just coming in one direction, no one coming out of the den. That's how I'm afraid of your marks on the basis of your law. The law itself is not so bad, but the explanation is disastrous. In fact, the reasoning shows, in particular from the reasons for the amendments, what the government wanted, to politicise national minorities and to make the national minorities, after all, a voting tank for the ruling parties, above all for the DS, when the election time comes. That's the essence of the whole story.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26769	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26770	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the People, Mr. Minister, I am very sorry that a law like this comes to parliament announced on a big door, and when we saw that law, we saw that it was actually a colorful lie. It is a pain to listen more to the adjudication of the ruling coalition and its most responsible people to all of whom the government and the survival of the government depend, and especially to the national minorities. It's so much of that touchdown and the law, and the contracts, and the agreements and everything, that a man's just sick of watching it. How many government people fall low, how much they degrade themselves and promise everything and everything just to extend the power of a government that is extremely incompetent and that has no solution to those problems that life means. He's passing some laws that swear to God everything and everything. I don't find it strange for the minister, I hear you've graduated from med school, so you've become a lawyer and you haven't been able to handle it as a lawyer as soon as you say so and comment that breaking the Constitution isn't so important. I don't know, maybe they lied to me, but they told me you were a great nurse, so then you made progress and headed for the rights. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but that's what the people of your coalition told me. No wonder, that's why you defend those medical laws. But, well, we won't talk about it. One thing's very interesting. You're so courteous, you promise people on that national council that they'll give you a vote, that some of the parties will tear the MPs apart to get another vote. So you tell him, he'll be on national council. That's how you court individual politicians, MPs from national minorities, and the question is simple -- how does the people of the national minorities live? How do Serbs live in Serbia's own state? Who's gonna protect them? How do Serbs live in the surrounding countries? Let's just take an example of Serbs in Kosovo. Do you know they have no freedom of movement, Mr. Minister? So you can't walk there to the store, the kid to school, go to the field, work the land? Did you ask at a rally somewhere to see how these people live there, what their rights are, that they don't have electricity for months, they don't have jobs, they don't have anything to pay for electricity? Why? There is no technique for a Serb to be employed in Kosovo and in certain other republics. In Montenegro, Serbia in the government of the Republic of Montenegro cannot be a porter unless you sign Djukanovic's loyalty you can't be a cop, a military face, anything. And here, the Montenegrins have been smitten, enjoying themselves, living well, in Serbia no one asks them. We also have a Montenegrin for the president of the country, his dad is president of the Association of Montenegrins in Serbia. We keep making some laws to protect somebody who's legal. The people of Serbia are one tolerable people. There's never been a problem with national minorities, and there won't be any. But let's protect the citizens and the Serbian nationalities and everyone else, and the Hungarians, and the Bosniaks, to live better. Mr. Minister, you can bring a national council, house two or three men here, honor two or three leaders of the political party, two or three MPs who will vote for your incompetent government. But how does the people live in Tutin? How does he live in Sjanica? How does he live on the Cave? How does he live in Pomoravlje, in Shumadia? Bad, Mr. Minister. How does a peasant live all over Serbia? How does Hungary live in Vojvodina with a price of nine dinar wheat? Bad, he can't survive. How does that milk producer live, no matter what nationality? Bad, because you allowed milk to be imported powdered, because you allowed tycoons to run the market, to blackmail, to be blackmailed, to be blackmailed, etc. Therefore, you run away from those real laws that mean life and always turn the subject of some of God’s important laws. We will adopt important laws to respect some international obligations, to flee from Europe, to escape three spears in front of Europe in their legislation regarding national minorities. We ask you, who lives here well? Liars, cheaters and all kinds of people who promise everything and everything, and they get rich fast, and then they do some dirty work, that they're sick of this country in privatisation, that they're selling other people's property today, and now you want to law it, this government, that it's regular, and then you're going to return the property you sold, alienated, etc., and you're not going to return it when possible today. I don't want to count it anymore. So you're turning the subject away from ordinary life problems. Now the topic is turning, the tobacco mob of Milo Djukanovic wants to endanger the president of Serbia, and we are all concerned, it is very important. And he was at Milo's house yesterday, running his election campaign. They're friends. We can't say that there's some problems here right now, and now we're just a regular people, we're supposed to sit down and shake, uh, President, don't go outside, don't let anything happen to you, let's blind you, hide you in a box, etc. Please, these are the topics that life means and enough manipulation of the public. I can't have this government run by failed musicians from Idol. They're leading a nice marketing move. You think the government based on that marketing can work. You think Shaper and Krstic can make up great affairs, talk, talk, talk, take the media. You say you consulted the judges, and these judges were appointed by the president of Serbia. He named them, so if they say anything against them, they'll be changed again, some others will come. Obeys pass through and everything is put into function of parties and party disciplines. That's why there's no point in bringing more of these laws to quick, at night sessions, on Saturdays, on Sundays. We just go out and say 200 laws, people, a hundred more. The opposition is jealous that we're adopting this many laws. So, what law does he live by? We passed the Traffic Safety Act. Are there fewer deaths in Serbia? Is there less trouble? There isn't, gentlemen. We've passed judicial laws. Has the trial process been accelerated? Why did you allow the judiciary to allow those who were supposed to be convicted in the Sartid affair to act out of date? How do we free them? Everyone's out of date. To God's judges didn't have time, they were too busy, and when something needs to be put into practice immediately, of course, when it's the interest of the ruling coalition. Therefore, everything here is being watched by the party. You're trying to talk to the public with a series of laws a colorful lie about the arrogant behavior of the parliamentarians, about some strange things happening in parliament, the opposition won't respect, listen, disobey. Imagine, they're asking awkward questions. Imagine when one Cvetkovic, who was the father of the privatisation of Sartida, came to me not to talk about other privatisations, the tobacco industry and all that, and when you asked him such an awkward question, how can it happen, you have to change it medialy, to protect Dinkic, that no one can ask him – hey, boy, you promised there something, you promised a thousand things, what are you doing with Fiat, is that your private fart? How come out of the budget of this poor people who separate from their hungry mouths and pay taxes, now they're doing full subsidies? Who else in the world has adopted that a foreign car, produced 100 percent outside, is subject to the budget of a republic? It's beyond all norms. You're in violation of the Constitution. You've committed a coup. You have completely switched from one parliamentary system to the presidential system. It's all about the president and everything. He talks about corridors, debt stories, interest rates. Why don't you come here about the debt of three billion euros to the IMF, why don't you ask the MPs who control the spending of these funds, as they share, on whose orders? And I talked to some people there the other day, and I talked to them a hundred times when I was in government. Do you know what they're saying? They say you're asking them now to give Dinkic a share of the funds, to make the payments, because it's going to be very positive in the event of a possible election. That is what it is intensively doing, that Serbia is in charge, that our children and grandchildren are paying loans to keep some of Dinkic's promises. They talk about big investments, big jobs, the well-being of national minorities. Well, it can't be if Serbs live badly, if it's a rotten economy, if agriculture is destroyed, if the system is completely broken down, it can't be good for national minorities either. It could be good for a few of their representatives to get in somewhere, to vote, and that's all. You will last, now whether a month more or less, that is least important for the people, because something that is bad, which is rotten, must change quickly and go away. However, you are now in charge of a major action, the most important action "Let's Clean Serbia". It's so promotional, it's activists, it's even actors, I see Neda Arnerić, the one who voted like that. It's a story of how to buy bottles. Please, it's all nice and it's all good, but this people want a simple thing, comes September, kids go to school, buy shoes, shoes, to feed the family, to buy bread, milk, yogurt. Why did our children get so sick? Why is there no prevention? Here comes the flu. How can those who haven't eaten a month's meat survive? They don't have anything, they don't have pay. What treatment should be given to those who have lost social life and who lose daily social life, etc.? These are important topics that need to be encouraged and discussed and solved, not just here to talk and to realize and to list. The priest and the cattle are baptizing. Now you've gone to make a difference. You've solved all the problems in Serbia, and you want a little bit of the world to shape. No one thinks we're anywhere. We owe God and the people. We have nothing to take out, we import everything alive into this country. We don't have anything like our product, our national brand, our national product, and we want to do God's sakes now we're making things unclassified, that we're going, that we're playing Tito, that we want to go into history, our high-ranking officials to get in line, etc. Great historical figures. So let's not waste any more time here. Give ordinary topics to talk about and don't worry about you passing some laws, the Serbian people respect minorities and will always respect them. Do not defend us from fascists and make anti-fascist movements when Serbia was never a fascist state, etc. Therefore, your goal is to survive in power at all costs. Your goal is to reverse the issue of bad life in Serbia, with major problems and simply adopt some laws, all important laws. Europe takes our hat off everywhere. Here, everyone hails that we are so quick to pass laws, and Serbia is sinking lower and lower. They're getting bigger and bigger. Mr. Minister, how do Serbs live in the Strpci, do you know that? Have you ever been to the Strpci or are you going to leave? How do they live in Gracanica? How do they live in other places in Kosovo? You won't discuss it. Do you have a report on the state of Serbs outside Serbia, what are their rights, how they are respected by certain states? Don't break the Constitution again, that's why someone fat will answer. Do not violate congregation decisions, congregation resolutions. Do not violate the decisions this parliament makes and destroy them with the decisions of some of the advice you are making in a hurry. This Serbia must understand once that all major decisions must be made here, with great debates in this parliament and with the public present, and not at some midnight sessions, when there are dozens of MPs here who are outside 40 degrees. So you think you're democratisation Serbia? You can't have that kind of democracy in Europe. Pull this information law if you think you're getting close to Europe. They see that this is a mistake, that one government is a blatant, who only sees its survival at all costs, and they don't care about the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26771	The word is Mrs. Marina Toman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26772	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. The Serbian Radical Party does not dispute the Constitution. The Constitution guarantees the highest possible rights for national minorities. One whole part of the Constitution is dedicated to human and minority rights and freedoms. In this sense, our criticism is not directed towards the Constitution, i.e. it is aimed at the exercise of rights in practice in a way governed by this draft law. We are not contesting the Constitution, but the exercise of these rights in practice in a manner regulated by this law. On the other hand, I need to look back on some of your things. You said it was their work and their responsibility. Since national minorities are entitled to self-government in the field of culture, education is achieved by choosing national councils, does this mean, in your opinion, that all responsibility will be on the national councils of national minorities? We disagree with that finding, responsibility will be in the state. So for all the negative things that this law, or draft law, will produce in practice, will be the responsibility of the state or government as a proponent of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26773	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26774	Here, I would use this time while the people are interested in watching, so that they will not be small hours of night, that within the time of the parliamentary group I may present and repeat the court of the Serbian Progressive Party on this law. For the first time in my life, I'm going to talk about one law that's the most personal, man, because I'm just lucky, and I'm also responsible for having three kids. I have two daughters and a son and I never act on the fact that motherly love is completely unconditional. It is the protection of its own children completely unconditional, but love is also deserved by conduct, responsibility and actions, and I make between my three children the difference between who is more valuable, more responsible, to whom unity and peace in the family is more important than those of others. I didn't accidentally start with this analogy that I have the right to distinguish my children by quality and to point out good ones, and to criticize those who are not good enough, and have no natural reasons to be bad, because I'm also lucky, but also a personal decision, that I belong to a party that can do the same, without false condescending, to observe the problem of national minorities in this country. Translated into the language of life that means when Ljubica Kishmarton, the wife of Otto Kishmarton, was fired as one of the state administration workers, she was fired because she was the wife of Otto Kishmarton, one of the council members whose mandates were challenged, and I want to believe that she was not fired because she was married to Hungary and that there is no national background. That's how we from the Serbian Progressive Party see the problem of minorities. We look at the problem of minorities so that we want to see as a majority minority people as our own wealth, not in any case, to make a commercial out of it to our own party because we have a colleague who is worthy of being a party member, not because he has a certain national minority, and I can talk about it completely openly, because the problems of minorities when you highlight them and favor them create resistance of the majority people. My colleague Otto Kishmarton doesn't like the fact that the problem of minorities is favored to him that, according to him, this is his personal statement, the resistance of the majority people will be created. I fear this law in one part has such consequences, favouring minorities even beyond what the Constitution allows. For an illustration, I shall specify Article 24, where national councils can submit their initiatives to the National Assembly, the Government and other state bodies in accordance with the rules of procedure of those bodies, and not as the Constitution allows. Do you think that's how we favor minorities and that's what suits them? No, I don't. Do you think that someone will believe in the well-meaning of this law at such a difficult time when we have intrusive economic problems, if, my former colleague, Mr Andros Agoston and you argue mainly about it – is there a unique electoral list or a special lists of minorities, and that they are breaking a spear on whether this law is good or bad? Let's explain it to the citizens. Mr Agoston says he has asked for the procedure to go in the same way as with the general voter list, so that the list of Hungarian voters, as only one of the national minorities living in the state of Serbia, is part of the general electoral list, but the government has offered a different solution and it remains in the bill. He says that his proposal is that when they put together a list of voters, which he believes is possible, you inform everyone on it, so that those who do not want to be in minority should report to the authorities that they are deleted from that list, and anyone who does not report within a certain time period would be considered to accept. Mr Agoston says that the chosen solution, according to which representatives of the national communities if they want to be on a special polling list, is the solution you left in Article 44, must be reported to the authorities, which is considered discrimination. You know the devil always hides in small things. On what polling list will minority members be enrolled, so have time, will, be informed that they will be removed from that list, in fact talking about reasons or not to say that it is exclusively, but a part of the good reason why we are talking about this law. You are interested in members of national minorities as an electoral body, as someone who will be able to talk about coalition capacity tomorrow, or help exercise power. I don't think that's a good way to do it, and it offends the very members of the national minorities. I will use it to speak for the national minorities through the text of academics, at the time of the President of the Vojvodjan Academy of Sciences and Arts, Mr Julian Tamash, without his approval, therefore I have the approval of what is published in the list "Today" 26. In 11th2005, the text I always carry with me, where he cares for the rights of national minorities in one sentence defines as an ornamental proof that the emperor is generous. Is there anything to add to that sentence today? Yes, this law is an ornamental proof that the Emperor is generous. He claims that minorities have reasons for dissatisfaction with the system of life. I will not agree with that, because the systematic arrangement of life for all of us is equal, regardless of which nation, religion we belong to, from which end we come, Serbians, Serbs, Montenegrins, Bosnians on the other side of Drina, Kosovars or whatever they call us. It's just as ugly a division as when someone's trying to divide us into minorities because we're members of a country where we want to live well. Mr. Tamash says that minorities have a problem, and I say as well as the majority people, first of all from the point of view of dissatisfaction privatisation in which the middle layer failed and that's the problem for all of us. He says that among the new rich, who have become rich in the misery of their own people, there are both. If you measured percentages, you might just fit the ratio of minorities and majority people, but the problem is that there are those who have become rich in the poor people and that there are all equal in these rich people. That's not a minority problem. There is a problem that in science, says Mr. Tamash at point 3, systematically degrades the ranking of scientific papers, that the current ministries since 2000 and beyond have been more valuable Serbian scientific research than others, and what is inadmissible, have been fulfilling minority publications, says because Chinese and French do not quote them. This does not serve the honor of the government that has allowed itself to do so. According to his claim, they didn't even get an apology for it. There was a claim that in politics, except for a few Bosniaks or Hungarians, I apologize, it's a quote, which fulfils the government's orders, and they don't mean with their own head critically, there are no more minorities in the tracks. Perhaps I wouldn't comment on this if you hadn't been present, Mr. Chiplic, as well as the Minister of Education, when we talked about education and textbooks had once again been favored by the province's authorities in terms of the influence of minority opinion in the publishing of textbooks, literally listed the circuit body that should be asked about minority textbooks. What about the other minorities living in Serbia? To favor the minority for the majority people is not good because of the minority. To favour some of the minorities, when we have more in this state of Serbia, is also not good. What's the matter? The dispute is that, he says, the problem in Kosovo, and I will hold on to this immeasurably, occurred at the time when Albanians began to act as the majority with aggression towards minorities. That's what we have to be afraid of, filigreely to write laws, with the sincerity of applying the laws we write and who systematically need to enforce minority rights, not allowing at any time anyone who gets over 20%, which is a criterion for some minority to qualify for a factor that decides that he starts to commit aggression against the minority. The victims of the aggression of such a minority within the state, which has become the majority in one locality and is committing aggression against the minority, we have a day-to-day, and for these reasons today I live in another province, not in one where there are still fewer Tabakovics, and the Tabakovic family lives seven kilometers from the center of Pristina in a certain ghetto. Who knows how similar it is to me and with much uglier experiences and the number of victims because of such a lack of feeling when one minority begins to be favored and that it uses its right in an inappropriate way. What is not good is that when we talk about association, about entering Europe, about Europe as a unity of diversity, we start to get the story that birth is sovereign only individuals, but not states. I will not mention from this text the experience of the Hungarian state with Trianon, and the threat to the state of Serbia, which when it does not know its sovereignty to do what is right and the minorities cherish what they want, how it can be painted on its head. I mean, as long as the state exists by definition as an experience and as a practice, we have to keep the sovereignty of the state within the borders of the Constitution, which, I repeat, I have repeatedly said, is the last wall of defense for all citizens living in that state, both the majority and minority people. Our job, Mr. Minister, is what to do to make the declared rights that are not even at the level of the world's adopted criteria, but even above that, be implemented and realised in reality, but not in such a way that they are politically abused, and this law allows it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26775	The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26776	Thank you, Commissioner Tabaković, you have actually given me a creamworth for a kind of response, or a kind of debate and opening a topic that we have not opened so far, and it is very important from the aspect of the law. In fact, Serbia has long since, thank God, stopped being a country where they say we are good in terms of standards and standards, but in terms of everything else that makes us comprehensive with authority, we do not stand well. He says, we have long ceased to be such a state and, fortunately, all three elements entering the assessment of the state of human and minority rights in Serbia are now very well. So, norms and standards, we've absorbed that story. The mechanisms that provide pleasure, that's your last line that I completely agree with, how someone who has a guarantee of the Constitution, how that guarantee can be used. Finally, we have the protection of human rights through courts and other state institutions or organizations. It is this law that serves as a mechanism that will facilitate and improve certain constitutional guarantees, some constitutional rights, numbered not by name, but by area, enjoy uninterrupted or enjoyed, therefore, being used, realised with fewer problems than before. I repeat, the idea with national councils is that these problems that have so far been faced by people who have gone individually to realise constitutional guarantees are now being done by group, through national councils. I doubt I can imagine at all that someone, by giving an opinion to a board member or an educational board or a school board, I don't know how abuse of that freedom could endanger the sovereignty of the state. At the very least, we have this experience that when with national advice or through national advice people try to solve their problems, and these problems are, I must tell you, very lifelike, but unfortunately very extreme, almost peripheral, because they always happen in smaller communities, then we see what the essence of national councils are. So, national councils, I deeply believe, will represent that kind of mechanism, which a legislator like this Parliament gives, which will ensure that constitutional freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution are guaranteed uninterrupted, or if you want us to be critical, with less interference realized, while this realization will also be the responsibility of national councils. For all of us, this law is important because of this mechanism, because of the fact that not only does the Constitution guarantee our obligation to bring regulation, so whether someone will or won't go to national council elections, whether they will or won't choose national councils. What is further important to us is that when we improve conditions, ways, mechanisms for constitutional freedoms to be enjoyed, used, implemented, then we are also a country that can say, well, yes, it's much better than it was, because it's no longer just on paper, it's not just in the Constitution, it's not just in norm, it's in life. That's what matters. I believe I'm not saying that for the first time, after this law comes to life, there may be a need for some change, but just because we weren't in a position to perhaps include all aspects of the lives of national councils. What we could do based on the previous experience of seven years, that's what we did.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26777	The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovi and Zeljko Tomic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26778	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry you're going out right now, but I'd like to try to convince you to change your mind and this amendment that we wrote on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group to accept. Here's the thing. Article 2(2) says the National Council represents a national minority in the fields of education, culture, communication in the language of national minorities and official use of languages and letters, participates in the decision-making process or decides on issues in these areas and the establishment of institutions, companies and other organisations in these areas. Mr. Minister has read a member of the Constitution that he interpreted as saying that what he wrote here stands, but since we have really worked in detail on this bill and since I see that all MP groups, although we have not worked together on this, see this bill in exactly the same way, it means that we fully understand what the spirit of the law is and we clearly see that you, in fact, are writing this attitude, expanding the role of national councils, predicting, among other things, that national councils are establishing companies that operate in areas of social life in which national councils represent national minorities. We claim that such a solution is not in accordance with the Constitution, and it is not in line with other legal solutions, although you are calling for this to be some law over the laws, so you are not obliged to comply with any other laws that this country and this Parliament have passed. By that logic, you can declare any law that you pass that is superlaw and that there is no need to respect what we have brought so far. It simply raises the question - is the establishment of companies even possible to connect with, say, the cultural autonomy of the national minority represented by the national council? When we talk about it, I'll use maybe, if I cross over, and the time of the parliamentary group, because on several occasions when I report to the amendments that we've submitted, and they refer to this "business", I'm going to use a few newspaper texts, where I'm actually going to see what the proposal is, that under these "public enterprises and institutions" and these "business societies" are actually trying to regulate the issue of the media, because as they say, national advice should be the founders and owners of the media. This is, of course, consistent with some other laws, such as the Law on Local Self-Government and the like, where national minorities in cities and places where they are the majority. I think that was even a better solution than what you're doing here right now. So we feel that the establishment of companies is really unnecessary and you cannot interpret the Constitution in such a way, although I am sorry that there is no minister, because he is famous for very creatively interpreting the Constitution, here and this opportunity has shown it. We'd like, therefore, in one of these announcements when we speak, and I'm really going to talk about these companies, to be here, simply because we think that the arguments that we have are just in favor of the Constitution, rather than the interpretation of the Constitution as the minister sees it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26779	One minute and a half, you spoke within the time frame for the MP's group. National MPs Pavel Marchok, Đura Muchenski, Lodi Gabor, Petar Kuntic, Maraci Nandor, Tot Tamash together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Article 4a be added after Article 4. The government and the Committee on International Relations accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes it is legally possible, so it became an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Toman, do you want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26780	The amendment stipulates that national councils, in addition to the post of president, are also elected by the vice president. In addition to the role of the National Council President, it is important that the National Council also has a vice-president. The Vice-President of the National Council would replace the President in the event of his prevention and thus allow for the smooth work of the National Council. In this regard, Article 6 of this Act provides that the National Council has the President, the Executive Body, the Education, Culture and Official Use of Language and Letters, and that the Statutes can establish advisory and other bodies. So the law did not specify the existence of a vice president - no space left. However, the Government, in its explanation for the refusal of amendments, states - that Article 5. The bill stipulates "that the statute of the National Council regulate other issues of importance for the work of the National Council, and one of these issues may be the choice of vice-president or vice-president of the National Council, as well as the process of its election," means it may or may not have to. On the other hand, the post of vice president is very important to determine under the point of "other issues". One of the views is that the president of the National Council represents and represents the National Council. So, the representation and representation of the National Council is exclusively entrusted to the president of the National Council. The National Council may be brought into a very awkward, or inexplicable position in the event that, due to sickness or any other reason, the President has been prevented for a specified time or at a given time, a very important moment after the work of the National Council, to perform that function. So the introduction of the Vice-President's post is one logical solution, which is based on the assumption that some unpredictable situations that may have consequences for the work of the national councils of national minorities should be considered in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26781	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26782	In my desire to support the amendment that my colleague has just tried to defend and in my desire to say only a few sentences in general about this law, and some of my opinion and seeing the reasons for the law being passed, I would first of all assess the reasons for the adoption of this law to what in chess, in hunting, in the military and in the war is called "a distraction maneuver". First of all, the adoption of such a law certainly wants to draw attention to some very important and very important problems that are affecting Serbia at the moment. The constitution, not only this last constitution, but all the constitutions in that old Yugoslavia, and here in the last half century here, several Yugoslavias have aged and died, to this last one that is important and valuable today and that we must respect, have guaranteed these rights. We've always been proud of it as a people, and it's never been questioned in these places, except the spordic extreme situations that exist everywhere, everywhere, and in all the peoples. So what the Constitution needs to guarantee is, above all, sovereignty. What I think the minister did not best defend is precisely that sovereignty of the Constitution. What should be imperative in some real change and in the real guarantees of the state is exactly that -- that someone, something, and that someone represents the state. You know, citizenship, which no one has mentioned so far, is one capital. Many countries in the world are trading with that very capital. You know what people do when they go to America to get American citizenship. When they get to that, they become Americans, and by their nationality they can be whatever they want -- both Vietnamese and Chinese, and Serbs, and Poles, and Russians, but they're Americans. It's a serious attitude towards its statehood and state. I would like a different policy to be run here and we have this idea -- that everyone who lives in Serbia should be under Serbian citizenship, because they have a passport from the Republic of Serbia, and that by nationality they are really all what they want to be, what they are at birth, if they want to make a different statement, so all that wealth of nations, cultures and religions that we have to truly and further cultivate. What Mr. Minister said - that this law should be a mechanism that should be guaranteed, and he is at first sight a mechanism of something, but it will not be good at all, that this law be a mechanism for buying, for trade and at all turn into a political commodity, which is the most certain that it will become. I just want to remind myself of some of the words that our least-known, certainly of the most noble Serbs have said, Isidora Sekulić about us as a people, and I will end this brief interpretation of the law and my vision of the law - we are small, we are poor, we are robbed of both men and of bloody history, and there is no one who will lead us into a fairy tale future to ourselves. It is not easy to be a small people in Finland, Norway, or Serbia, to rely on themselves and whether the Balkans will open their eyes sleepy and see their huge economic, political and cultural capacity if it swings as a whole. Nowhere has brought good things to anything, we need to start thinking as a whole, because happiness and the future and prosperity only builds the whole, the greater the better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26783	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. There's a word for Mrs. Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26784	Actually, I wanted to comment on all three amendments to Article 6. One was submitted by counterpart Olena Papuga, identical to co-worker Sulejman Spaho and this third Milan Avramovic. This Article 6 speaks of the authorities of the national councils and is proposed to amend this member that there is also a vice-president besides the President of the National Council. Not to spend a lot of time explaining this, I guess it's perfectly logical and normal, but Mr. Minister, you say the amendment is too high, not to change the essence and content of the provision because Article 5 of the Law provides that the statute of the National Council should regulate other issues of importance for the work of the National Council and, among other things, the election of vice-presidents. I remind you that the statute must comply with this law, and that is why, first of all, it is illogical for me that you have not accepted the amendment of your colleague, Olena Papuga. Mr. Sulejman Spaho, his amendment is not discussed because of a certain technical error, but I say it is a completely identical amendment and I think it would be necessary for you to accept it, as well as the amendment by Milan Avramovic, who says the same person can be elected twice in a position of the president of the National Council. I don't see the problem with this amendment being accepted. You say that national minorities should not be limited in this way, because unless they want the same person at the post of president of the National Council, they will not show him confidence in the elections. That's not disputed, but that's also the case with the president of the state. It is reliable now, I guess, for everyone to know that if Boris Tadic ran for the third time for the president of the state not to be elected, but there is a constitutional restriction that he cannot be elected more than twice, and therefore I don't see why these, I would say, legal and technical redecorations of this Article 6. Once again, I suggest you think about it, and you will really see that there is room for you to accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26785	The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26786	Dear Radet, we discussed what to leave to the statute. They have the right, the national council has the right to adopt statutes and have the right, and that's always something we had to consider, and possibly when some legal and technical and logically applicable solutions, the solutions we have in practice, we still had to discuss it a little bit and maybe make solutions that go a little differently, a little more restrained than what was common. I'm going to start with this last one, so that one person can be elected president twice at most. We have a problem when we try to apply that standard to a few national worlds. Indeed, some of them are on the verge of functioning, as people stop participating in the work of the National Council and are reluctant to, however attractive they are, the role of the president of the National Council, several of them and V.D. the situation, not just because of the past term, is reluctant to accept these functions. They personally convinced me that for a large number of national minorities up to 15 or 20 thousand, this could be a problem. So, as far as the ban is concerned, that one person can twice be elected president, that's the reason. On the other hand, we have this reasoning that even though only the arrangement, the internal arrangement, the additional internal arrangement of the national council should also be an expression of freedom to adapt to those conditions that someone lives scattered across Serbia's territory, someone lives focused and that the internal organisation, however flexible, should nevertheless express in most cases the characteristics and specificities of their organisation, so that the national council works. That was our intention. It doesn't mean that we will achieve these solutions and the best things, but in this case we are in the evaluation of the legislative policy, that in relation to the experience of functioning and the experience that they have made ourselves, we are trying to find a solution that we expect will be the most functional, which is this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26787	National MP Mrs. Radeta Vjerica, first and then Mrs. Toman, then Mr. Martinovic following this same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26788	You will agree, Mr. Minister, that it is the obligation of the state to ensure the maximum rights of national minorities. The state of Serbia has also done so with this constitution and the previous constitution, and it is shown in practice that national minorities have no problems in Serbia and it is good that this is the case and of course we support it, but it does not have to, now that you have tried to explain, that there is a national council. So, we are now going to allow the national councils, so far and without this law, to have national councils, but not some national minority at all costs to have a national council, that's a choice, right. Then that means, if someone doesn't have enough members who are willing to be presidents, they don't have to exist in that form. It is precisely in favour of those previous discussions, which have been excellent and that have taken a pretty long time, and this is how discussions should take place in this House. I have to tell you, we criticized you yesterday, because you were probably sitting there as a member of the government, so you changed an unwarranted colleague, but we have to admit today that you can serve as an example to your other colleagues how the minister should communicate with the MPs. We now have a problem with our Rules of Procedure that we cannot communicate with you in this way, because we are unfortunately limited in time, but it is certainly not your problem, it is the problem of this congregation majority. So, in addition to this previous discussion, this is your current explanation, and these discussions warned you that this law in the good part created elites within national minorities and that national minorities were politicised. We're against it, and that's why we think you should adopt these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26789	The People's MP, Ms. Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26790	Now that you explained why you didn't accept these amendments, you said-- we had to be a little more abstention than this other one. I guess that's what "other" meant when the laws regulate some other matter, areas, etc. On the other hand, you said you had to consider a small number, some national councils are few. I want to ask you a question - do you then feel that these few national councils will be good representatives of a particular national minority? If we refer to the amendment of counterpart Avramovic, we believe that the amendment offers a much more democratic solution, especially that the President of the Council is not directly elected in the elections, but is chosen from the ranks of members of the National Council. On the other hand, this legislative provision will provide a greater number of members of national minorities to participate in the performance of the president, and so is this for these few national councils, as you say, and to actively engage in the leaving of rights in the fields of education, culture, etc. We simply believe that this kind of competition that would be created by accepting this amendment would introduce a new dose of quality in the work of the National Council. So I urge you once again, think about it and accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26791	Mr. Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26792	Just for a little while. First of all, Mr. Minister, this argument of yours for such a legal solution doesn't seem convincing to me at all. I doubt there is a national minority community in Serbia that is so few that the issue can be asked, i.e. the election of the president of the national minority's National Council as a problem. On the other hand, if you do not limit how many times someone can be elected president of a national minority's National Council, you are thus opening up the possibility of numerous abuses, to privatise that national council. If someone is to be a life-long president of the National Council, objectively he can come into a situation to abuse some of his powers, to start treating this national council not as an organisation that is in the role of a national minority, but as a private matter. As soon as you have the possibility of someone being president for life, it's no longer democratic, it's a monarchy principle. I doubt the government's intensity went that way. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, I failed to say that in my earlier comments on your views on national councils, you say - national councils of the minority are a couple of excellencies of political bodies or should be political bodies, or have some touching points with political processes in the Republic of Serbia because within the national councils there is an institution of choice. Mr. Minister, and the fishing society chooses its president and chooses its own administration, and a meeting of tenants has one of its own presidents elected by a congregation of tenants and is neither a fishing society nor a congregation of tenants is a political organization. So it's very funny, unserious to draw the same sign of equality between choices as phenomena and politics. He's got a choice and he's out of political life. It is perfectly normal for the election to elect the president of the National Council to elect the authorities of the National Council. There is simply no other solution, except that someone is chosen through a certain mechanism, running, counting votes, determining the results of the vote, finding out who got bigger and who got fewer votes. That doesn't make everything a political body from a national council. Otherwise, if the election phenomenon were determined to be a political organisation, then everything would be a political organisation in Serbia, sports societies, fishing societies, hunting societies, tenants' congregations, Alfred Hickok film lovers' association, etc. Of course, they are not political organisations, so even national councils should not be political organisations. What Mrs. Verica Radeta said was absolutely correct. You've been claiming from the beginning - national councils are organised on a voluntary basis, it's freedom, it's not an obligation. But now someone in God's power has to be president of the National Council for life because there can be a problem if there's anyone besides him who could be president of the National Council. Should there be at all a national council that is to this extent few with its members, that the election of the president of the National Council appears as a problem? No, I don't. You want to literally force the National Council to exist, although there is no objectively minimum of the necessary conditions. It conflicts with your principle that national councils can, but they don't have to exist. Now as the debate moves away, we now see that national councils must exist. If it arises as a problem to elect a president, then we solve this problem by giving individual candidates the opportunity to be life-long presidents of national councils. Then the national councils, Mr. Minister, will be the private institutions of those people who are long-term presidents. You can hardly convince me that when someone is a lifelong president, they can be objective, impartial for their entire lives, to work only in the general interest of this national minority, and not abuse their powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26793	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26794	Dear colleague and MP Martinovic, we didn't seem to have heard from each other until the end. The elections are one of the elements that certainly characterise national advice in one part as a political organisation, as a political fact. I did not stick to the elections, but I said – especially the jobs they do. So, all those societies you've listed, from fishing to the Hickok Love Association, they don't do that kind of work, but national councils do. Simply, you can't close your eyes to the fact, given how they've worked so far, that if someone and the national councils are entered into the Constitution, so they're a constitutional category, if the law and the legislator have to regulate the way he chooses and if they're doing the jobs that this law provides, but we forget the law, remember the Constitution, to decide or participate in the decision-making of the issues concerned, then it's quite clear that this epithet cannot be ignored, nor can that epithet be excluded in any way. Simply, even if political parties had an explicit ban to appear at any stage in the election process for national councils, it is clear to all of us that politics and politicisation could not be completely avoided, no matter how hard we try and how much we want. At the end of the line, what's most important, the freedom that is given is given to everyone. Serbia can be proud that there are more than 25, 26 national minorities. It is a characteristic of Serbia, as the states of the Serbian people and of all citizens who live in it, and that is something that is obviously a lot of attention being caused by the sides, but also from the inside. But just as many good things bring to Serbs in Serbia, because they get used to tolerance, they know what life is, and they know what multiculturalism is. The only problem for us is technical character and that is what is often seen in the law – how all national minorities who have the right regardless of their size to form national councils, where the number of national minorities can affect functioning. As a state, we are obliged to give such a model of law, such a model for the functioning of national councils, that even a national minority of 5,000 can function under that law as well as a national minority of 200,000 members. It's hard to make such a norm, maybe this norm needs to change, maybe in practice, I repeat, I'm not running away from it, it's not good enough, but now, based on the experience of seven years and the experience of the environment, we think it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26795	Mr. Martinovic wants a word. You can do so within the time of the parliamentary group. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Replica. No replicas, no insults, no misunderstandings. You can't get a replica. Indeed, do not, and we will not abuse. We work so beautifully that it's just a shame that we're dealing with abuses. You will within the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26796	Indeed, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, I respect you as an intelligent, educated woman, as a lady, but let me say on what basis I want to get my word. So the basis for the replica is not only an insult, far from the minister insulting me or any of the MPs of the SRS. The basis for the replica is the fact that the minister misread what I was about to say. So, Mr. Minister, I think that today, and also in that principle debate, two schools of opinion on national councils have been profiled. The SRS represents the the thesis that national councils should not be political organisations and that their politicisation should not be allowed. The second school of opinion is the one represented by the Serbian government and you represent today, which is that the national councils of national minorities are in fact some kind of political organisation and it is now quite clear that there are clearly deep differences between the two schools of opinion and that we have really very different concepts regarding the organisation of Serbia's state and the role of national minorities in Serbia's social life. It is true, Mr. Minister, I simply do not know what is unclear, that the Constitution says that national councils can be educated, but it is very important to see in which area of social life, not in the political field, because political struggle is something that is the field for political parties. Your draft law in Article 1 is very clear. These are fields where national advice can be educated: in the fields of culture, education, communication and official use of languages and letters. Where's the politics? That within the national councils there is a possibility, because there is no other, and the choice of the authorities of national councils, it does not make national councils a political organisation. Right now, it is here that the Serbian government's intention to make from the national councils of national minorities an extended arm of political parties, those parties that have a minority omen and that, through them and national councils, they are bound by the current regime. When in the next election, people say, choke, when you miss your votes, here, that's the bag we're going to draw votes from to win the election again. That's the essence of this whole story. Because if your primary and only intensity were to remain in the field of culture, education, communication and official use of language and letter, then the Serbian government would not give itself the freedom to say in an explanation why it refuses to amend counterpart Kenan Hajdarevic and my amendment, that there are political parties that are not sufficiently guaranteed to fight for the rights of national minorities tomorrow because it does not appear in their statute and programme. I proved that, at least as far as the SRS is concerned, it's not true. It is simply evident, not only from the normative part of the bill, but from the rationale, that you wanted as a government to make a political instrument for some of the next parliamentary, presidential, local and regional elections, but it is very dangerous, it is the opinion of the SRS, that national minorities are politicised and that their right to protect their national, religious, racial, linguistic and cultural identity is misused for day-to-day political purposes. It certainly does not comply with your vehement European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26797	It is clear that the concept of politics differs with different speakers, whether politics is just an electoral activity, or whether it is the right to culture, education, communication, use of language, letters, etc., so there are differences, but we cannot change them by this law, they exist between us. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Are you a representative of the government? I'm just trying to say that it's all clear and there's no reason for replication. I'm only using the presidency position. Mr. Martinovic, Mrs. Radeta, took me as a young, educated man well understood. All I'm talking about is that he made his point. We've got two more minutes, but I don't think it's right for anyone to start, so I'm taking a break until 3:00. Thank you for your cooperation so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Before we move on to the discussion in particular, I would like to remind the amendment to Article 7, that RTS, Secretary General Stanislav Veljovic, informed Mr Veljak Odalovic, Secretary General of the Serbian Parliament, that today is a direct transfer of the session to 17.50 hours, due to previous programme commitments, and as usual will be delayed if the session takes longer. On the basis of Article 85(5), I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, and by discussing the law, in particular, which at that time will be the subject of our debate. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The word has a folk letter from Marina Toman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26799	I think we should have waited for the proposing representatives, but I hope that the debate will come. A colleague, Marina Ragush, predicted that Article 7 after Article 4 of Article 5, which reads - the work of the National Council was public. I don't see why the amendment wasn't accepted. Regardless of the government's reasoning that the amendment is not accepted, because the public of work is assumed because no provision excludes it, our view is that it has to be clearly cited and pointed out. By adopting the amendments, the bill would only improve and more precisely arrange for individual members. In fact, the work of the National Council must be public. The proposed law entrusted national councils with a number of education, culture, language, letter and information in the field. The National Council will have the power to make proposals and opinions when it comes to candidates for directorial posts, board members, etc. It shall also give an opinion in the procedure of the allocation of the budget of the Republic, the province and the unit of local self-government, when funds are allocated through public competition to institutions and associations in the fields of education, culture, etc. On the basis of a given opinion, the amount of funds to be allocated to legal and natural persons carrying out information in the language of the national minority through a public competition will be determined. The National Council is setting up scholarships. It also lays down criteria for selecting a responsible programme editor in the language of national minorities in a public service facility. It proposes the appointment of editors from the candidates reported. In one word, under the proposed law of the national minority, in the future, all their rights will be exercised through national councils. It is a very important area for the lives of every member of the national minority. It is about the information that is very important for every member of the national minority and therefore the work of the National Council must be made public, i.e. to make the data transparent, available to every member of the national minority, to be available to anyone who is interested. This also applies to the part relating to public competitions. We also witness numerous abuses in public competitions. These abuses are very common. I'm not saying in advance that abuse will be, but simply one such provision would warn and prevent any such abuse. Therefore, although it is in the light of the non-acceptance of this amendment that the public of work is presumed, the amendment should be accepted. One, the public of work cannot be assumed, and two, the amendment would only improve the law. For this reason, I suggest once again that you accept this amendment to make the law better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26800	From the time of the parliamentary group, three minutes and 25 seconds have been used and is now available for six minutes and five seconds. I'm sorry, I said the time of the parliamentary group, and it takes a time for an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The time at your disposal as an authorised representative is six minutes and five seconds. The minister asked for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26801	It is true that the public works, based on the Constitution, are assumed, but that obligation in the work of all bodies, especially national councils, which we have agreed to have so much importance, the public of work must always be highlighted, and therefore we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26802	I find that on behalf of the Proposer, the minister has accepted the amendment. Since the International Relations Committee has not done so, it remains to be stated in the voting day on the amendment of the Marine Ragus MP, which Minister Svetozar Ciplic accepted during the session. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26803	I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. It is obvious that based on these amendments I have submitted and not accepted that the minister and I cannot possibly understand the interests of the national minorities. The minister represents the interest of the government or someone else, and I am trying, as a member of the national minority, to represent the interest of the national minorities and not only of the national minorities to whom I belong, the Hungarians, but also of all other national minorities. My opinion of the interest of national minorities is as I feel, and the minister cannot think and feel the needs of minorities as much as I do. If the law is passed in the interest of minorities and if minorities recognise their interest in forming national councils, then national minorities will also form national councils. If some national minorities do not see the council as what they need, or see what benefits this national minority will have by forming a council, national minorities will not form that council. As a member of the national minority, what national council is needed? In order to achieve that advice works in the interests of all citizens, members of that national minority, for one thing, national councils should not be political councils of national minorities, i.e. the elected council should not consist of politicians representing, first of all, the interest of their party. The national council should have the best experts from the culture, education, history minority who will work in the interest of all members of that minority, regardless of which parties they are from. I want such a national council that I can vote for, select members of the council, regardless of being a member of the SNS, and also members of other parties, both from the DSS, and from the DSS, and everyone who has members of national minorities should not be a problem that members of a national minority in a party vote for that council. This can only be achieved if this national council is not a political council, but will really represent only interests in those areas of a national minority. In this amendment, I suggested that Article 8th century, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 be deleted. The existing attitudes 7 and 8 become points 2 and 3. In this article 8, I will only read the beginning, which is the most important, the first position, the national council has at least 15 and 35 members at most. I suggested that there be no restrictions in the number of national councils, as is proposed here in the law, where it is proposed depending on the number of members of that national minority in the last elections that the council must have so many members, whether that is 15, 19 and so on. I don't think that some national minorities represented in a smaller number, and maybe they're very interested in forming a council, that they can't even have a maximum number of members of the 35 council. Also, perhaps national minorities with a large number of members of that nationality in our country will be sufficient to form a 15-20-member council. Namely, there are national minorities that are spread across Serbia from Saturday to Macedonia, you have in Kosovo, such as Roma, and if they are limited to having, say, 15 and 18 members, they would achieve that they would not have representatives from all areas, and I believe that the national council should have representatives from all areas, from all parts of Serbia. For some national minorities, it may not be a problem to have only 15 members and to be represented again. Some national minorities live in some part of Serbia, say Romanians who live mostly along the border with Romania, Hungarians live mostly, the largest number in Vojvodina, but I say there are national minorities living in the whole territory of Serbia and that someone can represent them, all those citizens in the national council, they need from all these areas to have a representative. I think this amendment could have been accepted to leave the people of the national minorities at will to choose for themselves how many members the council will have from 15 to 35.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26804	From the time at your disposal, as an authorised representative, three minutes and 50 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? The word has Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26805	The title above Article 8 shall be the number of members of the National Council. Therefore, this member regulates the number of individual national councils, depending on the number of members of a particular national minority, and how many members will have that national council. The amendment that we have submitted refers to paragraph 2 and I will read it – in the case of a national minority whose number, according to the results of the last census, is less than 10,000 persons or is not specifically shown, is the national council of 15 members. We have proposed by amendment that words should be deleted – or it is not shown in particular. I think even this member's attitude would be better if it weren't for the number of members of the national minority to be less than 10,000. I got an explanation here, it has to do with a pattern that the Republic Statistics Bureau makes in front of every census. There's that category - the others. I understand the legislator who looks ahead, and he's thinking that maybe the next census can show up, or that a certain national minority can be shown, and that's fine. I think I got the explanation right. I understand your attitude. However, if the next census is most likely to be organised and implemented in 2011, now I ask you, this law takes effect within eight days, so, like all legal proposals, in the meantime it is a year and a half or two, in this category – the rest of you have various answers, among other things there are 19 Serbian citizens who have declared themselves Eskimo, you have people who have pleaded as Celti, have people who plead like Chopi, believe it or not some people, it is simply their right to show their view of the plea in general, they have signed that Martians. There are many others in this section. So far, 15 national councils have been formed, plus the Union of Jewish municipalities as the 16th partner. It may happen that, for example, one of those who pleaded as Celts submitted a request for the formation of a national council, because they remained in that section. Until we do the next census and it appears in this second category, so on that list that will be made up by the Republic Institute, you can face that situation. That's why I think you should have accepted this amendment, because it's enough to say that if, according to the last census, the number is less than 10,000 people that this council will count 15 members and a point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26806	A minute and 20 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Bajram Šehovic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26807	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law. In fact, this Article 9 defines the general competence of national councils. My amendment applies by adding a new point 2) to Article 9 after point 2) which reads - the National Council shall adopt an annual programme of work and action plans for its implementation, and so far points (2) to 15) shall become points 3 to 16). Namely, any effective work is the basis of planning, and in order to correctly determine the financial plan, it is necessary to establish the annual work programme, as well as the action plans for the implementation, which would clearly determine transactions, objectives, contractors and deadlines within each of those legal competences of the National Council. In the explanation of the promoters, I received that the amendment is not accepted and it is further said that it is assumed that national councils, in the interest of realising their competences and transparency of work, which each electoral body expects, will bring an annual programme of work and action plans according to its guidance under its powers. I think the promoter should have accepted this amendment, both because of effective work and because of the rational use of the resources that national councils receive from the budget. Besides, this amendment at least achieves two goals. The first is that national councils will work more seriously and thus be more responsible to those who chose them, on the one hand, and on the other hand that national councils will be responsible for their financing, so on the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26808	A minute and 30 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that this amendment byram Šehovic should have been accepted. He absolutely makes sense. Therefore, the National Council should indeed bring an annual work programme, i.e. business, and make action plans for its implementation, simply because every national council will be able to also have certain financial resources, and to prevent the abuse of those financial resources, it is really necessary to define, within the framework of national councils, the annual work programme, i.e. operations and to be a rule that will apply to all national councils. The explanation given by the government why it does not accept this amendment does not really make any sense - the amendment is not accepted, it is assumed that national advice in the interest of realising its competences and transparency of work, which each electoral body expects, these are all political declarations, will bring an annual programme and action programmes according to its authority under its powers. You, Mr. Minister, said that the system of national councils of national minorities is one subsystem within the global political system of the Republic of Serbia. If it's a system, then it has to be uniformly arranged. If one national council is to have, according to the government, an annual work programme, and another national council will not have - then there is no system, then the system is broken. It is precisely in the interest of forming a uniform uniform system of the national minority council, in the interest of the legality of the work and business of the national councils, especially when it comes to spending financial resources, there was absolutely a valid reason to accept the amendment of counterpart Šehovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26810	A minute and 50 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26811	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment has not been accepted, and similar matter has been like the accepted amendment of the Members of the Balint Pastor and Arpad Fremond and has been in spirit, as it is said in the explanation, of the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. It is a fact that he is, in any case, giving specifics and making it impossible for this law to go beyond those frameworks. When it comes to this sensitive problem of national symbols, which is a neural point and a general issue with us in our area, and one of the reasons is that so far there has been no national advice from Albanians in the area. There was certainly thinking in that direction, there was one practice, to say the right acquired, not according to some law, but according to some political practice of the 1980s, which was denied, of course, politically passed and politically abolished, because only now through the law do we regulate this matter. There are these dilemmas - whether national councils can establish a national symbol, when a national symbol is created through history and does not belong to a part of a nation that lives only in one country, but belongs to and is a characteristic of a whole nation wherever it is, in the diaspora and in several countries, is a complex problem and needs patience to be resolved more complexly and then there is no market that occurs in us during certain periods. Okay, now we could have done this by law until then, because we are limited by the 2002 Law, but we should certainly think in that direction, because if any symbol of a national minority, which is part of a nation, is used in this country, with the flag of this country, I don't see any reason for any long analysis or even any conflict that we have every year in a certain period, which is November, when even excises and exotic situations occur in Presevo or Bujanovac. I'm saying it's a subject that should be discussed more seriously in the future and tried to be more complex and more adequate. I would like to add here, or I hear today in this debate that a lot is being discussed, are the national advices of these solutions politicised, should it be influenced, I just had a chance to hear one of my colleagues -- should they be the experts of those who, through this law, will give their politicians? I absolutely don't see why politicians from one minority, this political elite of a minority, wouldn't choose their experts better from education, information and other areas than what someone needs to impose from a higher center. This is a fundamental question to me. Why does someone think, now on behalf of the higher level, that they have the right through politics to interfere with the professional staff of a minority, and not allow those experts, in the name of that minority, to be elected by that representative, to be the elite, whatever they call it, the legitimate representatives who will choose the provisions of this law to make decisions in the name of that minority. I think that absolutely these solutions are offered by this bill are a step in identifying the specifics of our society, a step with more effective solutions that the centralized government has not been able to do so and I absolutely think that this law allows a lot of opportunities in this direction, with my fear that we will eventually be able to synchronise, harmonize the provisions of this law with the basic laws that it treats and discusses this law. Really, how much in practice will we be able to achieve institutions as instruments for the exercise of the rights that are regulated by this law? It probably takes an adequate political climate. Without an adequate political climate, every law, even this one, at least as good as it is, threatens to remain only on paper, and then in practice, quite little is realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26812	Three minutes and 30 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dobrislav Prelic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26813	My colleague, Sreto Peric, has submitted an amendment to Article 9, where in item 1 point 5) following the words "national councils" add the words "in line with the Constitution and other laws of the Republic of Serbia". Mr. Minister, it is in reason that the amendment is not accepted because the obligation to respect the Constitution and the law is assumed. Mr. Minister, it is "presumed to be an obligation", and it is more than clear that this government does not respect the Constitution and does not respect our laws. You have shown this unequivocally to the citizens of Serbia by adopting the Law on Regional Development, where you have divided Serbia into seven regions, where there are no KIMs. Mr. Minister, since I come from Vojvodina, I would like you to answer one question: what is this missing from all national minorities or how their rights are compromised in the Republic of Serbia? The second question -- when the Serb national minority is at stake around the world, and especially here in the environment, what are its rights in these countries? The DS policies and orders they have from the west are unequivocal. It is not clear to me that a political party like LSV can affect Boris Tadic so much and this government. The LSV policy is more than clear, it's the dispersion of the Vojvodina. It is clear to all of us that Nenad Canak was in Croatia at the "Fireslav Lisinski" hall, where it was written medium Croatian. He told the assembly speaker that he wondered not to write the statutes of the Vojvodina, but to the constitution of the Vojvodina. The appearances of the LSV MPs here in the Assembly are more than unequivocal. I will remind only that Mr. Radovan Radovanovic said that a young man in Backo Topoli who wore a Serbia state-marked T-shirt had major problems, so that he even had problems calming tensions. What tensions, Mr. Minister, that a Serbian citizen in his own country cannot wear a shirt with the markings of his country. Mrs. Olena Papuga has said and suggested here that there be a Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts on the council. One more step of unconstitutionality. Mr. Minister, I'm going to give you a specific example. I come from Odjak municipality, I think you know, in Odjak municipality lives 18 nationalities. We live in one harmony, one spirit of tolerance, understanding and mutual respect. There's a lot of mixed marriages, and no problem on a national basis, I say, has ever been. They've been trying to do it for one single reason, because the SRS has been in power there, conditionally speaking, with its coalition partners for five years. What we do in our municipality, Mr. Minister, is that we are the first municipality in Serbia to open a Roma office to work with the Roma. We are the first municipality to avoid and exiled faces, where our trustee for refugees and exiled faces, built four settlements for refugees and exiled persons from 96 housing units. The Municipality of Odžci is two places, Bogojevo and Lalić, where the majority population in Bogoje is 90% Hungarian, and in Lalić there is 70% Slovak. We are from the municipality trying to get even more out of them and we have shown it unequivocally, especially when it comes to the Roma population. We brought them complete infrastructure. For these people, no one has paid any attention in 50 years. Now they have a way, water, basic conditions for life. There's another problem. I'm sorry, but I have to take that out. They go to school together with the children of Hungarian nationality. On the second vacation, children of Hungarian nationalities eat, the children of Roma nationality and Serbian children eat at the third holiday. The toilet when used by children of Hungarian nationality is normally used in the rooms of the school, and these children go outside. That you don't believe it, but it's true. No matter what the president of the local community council, Istvan Nemesh, says he's never had better co-operation with the municipality than we have now, we've invested a lot in the settlement place of Bogojev when the infrastructure is questionable, but unfortunately these problems exist. I'm sure we'll get past them. When it comes to Roma nationality, I must tell you that there are 150 children in the inhabited town of Deronja, that no child is illiterate and that all children attend school. We pay our children for lunch and buy books to study and the more we influence their normal living conditions and their normal development. In the end, if I didn't take up more time, I'd just like to mention one thing to you. It is a shame, Mr. Minister, that no one from the government of the Republic of Serbia or from the province government appeared in the Stapar, where 713 monuments at the Orthodox cemetery were destroyed. Apparently a man's been caught. The SRS suspects, because his psychophysical and health skills won't allow it, in a few hours, to bring down 713 monuments. There, Mr. Minister, was to be Mr. Dacic, and Mr. Tadic, and Mr. Pajtic. The only man who went to the inhabited town of Stapar near Somboro, which belongs to the Sombor municipality where the Democrats are in power, is Milan Cuk, the president of the Odzac municipality, a Serbian radical and offered assistance. There's no need to put riots where they're gone and where there's no need to be challenged. Vojvodina, Mr. Minister, should not be a stone around Serbia's neck, but rather the pride of Serbia, where I mean agriculture, above all, Vojvodina will be something, but with great support from the government when it comes to agriculture, injections and one engine of economic and economic development in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26814	It has been used since the parliamentary group's time of seven minutes and seven seconds, so it is available for another 30 seconds of the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment, with the correction, was brought together by the MPs Balint Pastor and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law on national councils of national minorities. This amendment provides for a point in Article 9(6) after the words "and official use of language and letter" and the rest of the text, which reads - and other areas of importance for the preservation of the identity of the national minority, to be deleted. Mr. Minister, in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia over the past year, we have had many examples of mutual discrepancies with the bill when the proposings were different ministries. This speaks of dysharmony and a kind of incompetence of the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, this is the first example that the bill is not even in line with itself, because Article 2(2) of this proposal makes it clear: The National Council represents a national minority in the fields of education, culture, communication in the language of the national minority and official use of language and letter, participates in the decision-making process or decides on issues from these areas and the establishment of institutions, companies and other organisations in these areas. Mr. Minister, there's no meaning here for any other area of importance for the preservation of the identity of the national minority. I am pleased that you have just quoted the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because I would remind you of the inconsistency of this bill and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 75(3) which clearly states - to exercise the right to self-government in culture, education, communication and official use of language and letters, members of national minorities can choose their national councils in accordance with the law. Again, Mr. Chipletic, there is no meaning in any of your other areas of importance for the preservation of the identity of the national minority. Since you have not accepted this amendment from a very broad explanation, an improvement in the value of a democratic society, I urge you to now orally explain to us what other areas are of importance for the preservation of the identity of a national minority. If you're keeping them like that, why didn't you put them in this bill, why didn't you define them and introduce us to them?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26816	Twenty-five seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26817	Mr. Minister, Article 9 refers to the competence of the National Council, and we have asked that point 6) which reads - establish institutions, associations, foundations, companies in the fields of culture, education, communication and official use of language and letters and other areas of importance for the preservation of the identity of the national minority, to erase these companies again, as we have already intervened in Article 2. Article 1 of this law, to remind you, Mr. Minister, says - this law regulates the jurisdiction of national councils of minorities in the fields of culture, education, communication and official use of language and letter, the selection process of national councils and their funding, and not to quote further. There is therefore no mention of companies, business activities, or any business activity in these areas. In the explanation that you give us why you did not accept the amendment, you literally tell us this - the amendment is not accepted because there is no constitutional basis for limiting the rights of national councils. Who's asking you to limit them? We didn't ask anywhere to limit the rights of national councils. All we asked of you is that you respect the Constitution, and you read the Constitution here, but you creatively interpreted it, that I do not further explain it, if you understand what I mean. It is clear to us why you are introducing these companies. You introduce them further when these companies appear in article 18, where you actually think about newscasting, radio and TV activities, printing and reproduction of recorded media. In fact, it does not appear anywhere in the Constitution that it should be formed, that it should be done by local self-governments who have been subject to the authority of establishing and dealing with this topic under the Law on Local Self-Government, that you are now interpreting that these rights should be extended and given them in this way as stated in Article 9. We therefore believe that you should not restrict your rights, nor extend them, but stick to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26818	Twenty-two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26819	Dear MPs, sometimes the solution is very simple and it is in front of the eyes. You know that it is possible to apply the Constitution and constitutional norms directly, then even this law would not be necessary. The constitution, as defined by the entire area of the rights of national minorities, has done so in one general way, predicting, allowing, even expecting the legislator to be creative, establishing, leaving it to the parliamentary majority, parliament in general to define the limits of certain freedoms within a certain constitutional framework. So, moving within the Constitution, whether we move within the Constitution or not will establish the Constitutional Court and no one else, someone can extend the limits of freedom to the maximum, and someone can, very restrictively interpret the provisions of the Constitution, give proposals or draft laws that you spoke of and some other MPs of the previous Tuesday, yes, we had draft laws on national councils of the national minorities that had nothing more than the Constitution to specify. The law is there to specify. I believe that the debate has already been long enough, good enough and clear enough, to try from the constitutional point of view one large area to specify. It is very clear that we have faced situations where we have had to decide what forms, ways, mechanisms for the realization of certain freedoms will be. There was a problem in the area you mentioned. We have one legal standard and legal practice in Vojvodina, where the founding rights belonging to the AP Vojvodina were transferred to national councils. Where the province was the founder of some culture or list institution, or magazine, we have a situation in central Serbia, except in one or two cases, there were no such examples. So the Republic of Serbia was not the founder of the language of the national minority, so it could not carry such a thing. If you're trying to provide national communities, national minorities, national councils with the same conditions of practice and life, then you have to assume what the situation is, you have to assume and create a situation where they could all get to the same situation, for example. The newspaper. Since it is likely, almost certainly, that the process has been completed, because it is past and that time that the state, the autonomous province or local self-government is setting up texts in the languages of national minorities, to set up publishing houses, then you must ensure that where we have both newspapers and publishing houses they now come into a position, national minorities who do not have it, that they themselves do so. How will they do it, but through companies? It is very precisely defined that these companies can serve exclusively for this. We haven't been able to give the same conditions to everyone, except this way, because this is also what funds are needed. The state of Serbia is not obliged to finance this situation, it is a matter of freedom and resourcefulness of every national council, the state of Serbia will only finance the exercise of jurisdiction. In that sense, I think we have found an excellent mechanism for both national minorities, namely national councils that have no newspapers, publishing activity, unlike others, in this way trying to come into the same position with those who have.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26820	National MP Milos Aligrudic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26821	Mr. Minister, the intentions of Article 18 are clear, that the company be a mechanism through which national councils will reach the stages to issue a public message. The problem is, if we're already making special provisions and we're experiencing national advice as a policy, like you said, and what we don't think it should be, then stay consistent with your idea, so make a Lex specialis. I know that the provisions in our legal system, take just the information law, are such that they don't give local self-government the ability to issue more texts the way they used to. TV stations of local media are privatized. There must be an economic operator behind the public message as the founder. Does it have to be like that anyway? Of course, your creativity and the creativity of this House's thinking, which is the legislator, depends on the solutions that apply. What's written here is causing confusion, and then it's thought to be a mechanism, it's actually our position, that the mechanism that's being rightly proclaimed by Article 75. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this particular case, given the circumstances, appears as an unscathed and strange solution. Why didn't you reach for some other means, even if there was a lex speciality in this area, to provide this matter in another way? If the National Council can establish a company that would have set up a vote, why would the National Council not set up a vote? It's a very simple question. Is that forbidden by the Constitution? It's not. I want to tell you that there are simple mechanisms that can solve certain issues, if there is a little goodwill and if we try a little hard to think about. What you have interpreted as an extension of rights is not actually an extension of the right, but an exit from the framework that reads in Article 75. We understand that each of the items referred to in Article 75. The Constitution to further develop the law adopted under Article 75. The Constitution. But then we have to take care of how for this special situation, for this special occasion things can be put on their feet. Why do we always have to use something else to perform in a special way the solution we want? So, it was the idea to think about it a little bit, and yet I repeat, we are deeply convinced that national advice should not be in this context to represent political bodies, because if it were true, then that convention could be consistently applied to all other branches of political expression of life, starting with the way of the government in local self-government, etc. It's just not an idea, or at least I hope it's not an idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26822	Three minutes and 20 seconds used. The remaining time is 18 minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26823	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 11, which states in the first position: "In pre-school education and education institutions, both primary and secondary education and education, the founder of which is the Republic, an autonomous province or unit of local self-government, in which education and training work is performed in the language of the national minority, or in which language, language or culture of national minorities is taught as a special teaching subject, national council," and now gives what kind of competences there is. In point five, it says: it gives prior consent to the selection of the director of the institutions referred to in Article 1(2) of this Article. If you look at all of this, you will see that in three moments the National Council gives an opinion: on the discharge of the Director, gives an opinion on the Director's candidate and then gives consent to the selection of the Director from item 1 of point 2). I think this is another exaggeration that this law is abounding in when it gives jurisdiction to this council, so I don't think there's any need for it to give both before and after. If he made a statement about all the candidates, then he gave his opinion on all the people who participated in the competition. There's no need now that someone's elected a director, and he's giving an opinion here on members of the school board, and there's no need to give a later opinion on the selection of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26824	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26825	That's exactly what this is all about, to pick up where counterpart Milica Vojic-Markovic stopped. What does it have to do with the national council giving its opinion in the procedure of authorising the directors and members of the management bodies of the institutions referred to in points (1) and (2) of Article 75(3), with the constitutional provision of Article 75(3), where we are talking about the exercise of the right to self-government in culture, education, communication and official use of language and letter? What difference does it make to frame a species like this with this constitutional provision? Logically, I don't even ask legal questions. I'm asking a logical question. What's the point now? It is given, apart from all these prerogatives that we have instructed, that the advice will now be fully and fully recorded, not only will they give an opinion about the directors, but also about the resolutions, etc. That's something more. It's already one of those provisions that makes advice powerful, as I say, and you tell political bodies. That's what this is about, and it's not good. I think this amendment should be accepted, because it's too clear what you want to achieve, not you personally, but that's exactly what political trade is about, these things that, what I said and in the principle debate, are very dangerous. You've qualified it in a completely unnecessary way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26826	One minute and 45 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. There are seven more minutes at your disposal. The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26827	Let's be extremely open and extremely clear. Who's made the concession? At least national councils that have their seat registered in Vojvodina. They already have it. It is about national councils based in central Serbia. (Zeljko Tomic, from the place: It does not say. ) There is no need to write, as such a standard will now apply in the territory of all Serbia. So it can really be a problem to realize from a very abstract constitutional standard concrete powers, tasks, jobs. We can argue about whether it is the right way of formulating content, concrete work and the task of self-government in the field of culture and education, but we have managed what is already known in Serbia's legal system, in a work called the AP Vojvodina, and which is one complex legislative procedure, through the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the 2001 AP Vojvodina, through other legal regulations, it has become a practice, i.e. become a legal reality. In other words, given the legal order, what has been done so far, we have now prescribed this law, with the awareness that it may not be or will be unsatisfactory, in the sense that it is not only the right to self-government in the field of culture and education, but also aware of the fact that someone can say that it has nothing to do with the right to self-government. To me, the rapper was a practice, normative state and the right of national councils that registered their headquarters in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and the fact that national councils, which are in central Serbia, cannot in this way realise this content of their Constitution-guaranteed right of self-government in those areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26828	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic to Article 11. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26829	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group also refers to Article 11(1) point 5), but is not as radical as the previous one, i.e. it does not foresee eradicating the proposed position, or point, but provides for the replacement of the word "present consent" in the words "gives an opinion", refers to the selection of directors in the institutions of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education. So let's repeat, if Member 11th point 1) of the national council gives an opinion on the proposed candidates for members of the board of directors, at point 2) suggests that members of the board of directors, 3) give an opinion on the candidate, 4) gives an opinion on the decision-making procedure, 5) that is the one that needs to be changed, then point 2. 1) says - suggests one member and gives an opinion, so point 2) - gives an opinion, so point 3 - gives an opinion, and point 4 - gives an opinion. I don't see why he'd have to give consent to the director's election. Why would a national council be given the right to veto the director's election in the first place? You're starting from the assumption, in fact, that belonging to minorities must mean more education than most? What kind of hypothetical situation can we have? So, we can do this, the first hypothetical situation -- two candidates for the director of the institution, from different groups of minorities, the council, is very likely not to even make a decision, because of course everyone will want to be his candidate, or from his group of minorities; or, let's say, secondly, what if he is a candidate of the majority people, who has more expertise, but of course the national council does not allow, because my God, he is not a member of the minority. So we can have a situation like that. On the other hand, is it ultimately necessary for this parliament to pass a law that will protect all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and more than the vermin government, which makes such laws, than such a law, what is it? I don't think discrimination against minorities in Serbia usually does exist. We all have the same right to quit, we all live equally badly, and the minority members and members of the majority, thanks to this government, thanks to its policy, and that's why I think there is discrimination against the government, but to all citizens, not to minorities. I don't think personal discrimination exists. I believe that, in any case, this law would be more necessary to us than that before us. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, you've got the Vojvodina situation, I'm from Vojvodina, I come from New Vienna, to say the girl who works for the case finishes high school, at least in New Vienna or Old Vienna, or Vienna as we popularly call the Old Vienna, who finishes high school, not because she's a member of the majority people, can't get a job in her profession trade because she doesn't know Hungarian. It works, because it's the middle I come from. That's probably the case with the Romanian language around Vrsc, with Bulgarian somewhere down there. What's that? So that's some reverse discrimination against most? Why do we insist on the rights of minorities when they are not threatened at all? He can talk about what anyone wants here. The rights of the minority aren't compromised. Therefore, why would there be the right to veto a national council to elect a director and that is basically an amendment that I have submitted. I hope you accept him for who he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26830	One minute and 45 seconds was used from the time of the parliamentary group. You have nine minutes and 30 seconds left. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. The time available for the parliamentary group is 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26831	This situation is much more complicated, Minister, than you think. By inserting these words – consent, you are in fact creating a situation of a complex administrative act. A complex administrative act shall require two bodies in the same rank. Here you have an organ that appoints, places and chooses, state, and you have something that's an undefined organ. This couldn't have gone legally easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26832	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The SRS parliamentary group has used all the time available to it as a parliamentary group. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26833	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11(1). Words - interested national councils propose a joint candidate for a member, are replaced by words - each interested national council proposes a candidate for a member. It is a candidate for a member of the board of directors of institutions of student and student standards, whose founder is the Republic, province or units of local self-government. The proposed amendment wanted us to prevent certain national councils from being subordinated to other national councils in the environments where several members of different national minorities live, and such national minorities, especially in Vojvodina, are indeed many. These are environments where there are several languages of national minorities in official use. We believe that every national council should propose its candidate. The proposed amendment is more practical. The National Council of Slovakia is best aware of Slovakia's problems, as well as the National Council of Hungary is best informed of the Hungarian problem. On the other hand, this amendment is in no way contrary to the spirit of the bill's proposal, as the government stated in an explanation for the refusal of amendments. He certainly does not exclude co-operation in national councils. In addition, this bill has been created, as you keep pointing out, as a compromise solution between national councils.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26834	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the amendments were submitted in the same text by MPs Dejan Mirovic and together Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Donka Banović, and a folk letter from Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26835	Article 12 speaks about the relationship between the national councils of national minorities and the National Educational Council. I'd like to comment here that there has been a lot of co-operation between some national councils so far and before this law existed. Otherwise, one of the members of the National Education Council is on the proposal of the National Councils of National Minorities. They propose a common list, and then a member is elected who is. Therefore, national councils already have their permanent representative at the National Education Council. The amendment proposes that point 3 be deleted, which says national councils of minorities give an opinion to the National Educational Council on Serbian language teaching programmes, as non-material. First of all, there's a problem here in termologically. You have, when it comes to languages, native language and foreign languages. I suppose you wanted to say the word - the non-supervisory language to say - Serbian as the official language of the RS, but there is no such thing as a non-supervisory language. There's a mother and a side. The question goes further - why do national councils not declare themselves on the plan and programme of school for English, French, Spanish etc? There's a mother and there's a side. Furthermore, why should national councils even plead on a Serbian language teaching programme?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26836	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26837	Dear Members, thank you for this question. This is one of the points that obviously caused the most controversy, and I personally think and stand behind it being one of the most needed solutions. In current practice, the Serbian language is not okay with foreign languages, such as French, German or English. The Serbian language is in the work of the official language established by the Constitution, so it cannot even have the status as the foreign languages mentioned. This norm is prescribed here, proposed, above all, based on poor practice, and a good demand for good ideas of national councils, which have the following practice - that since everyone in Serbia, whether Serbs or members of national minorities, in primary and secondary schools, learn Serbian language, it happens, and that migration occurs, because in primary schools the plan and the Serbian language programme for national minorities that do not teach it as non-intrusive is not good. In other words, given the majority environment, they do not master Serbian enough, but rather from high school, and far from college, they go to their home countries, finish universities and stay there. The basic idea is that there is an interaction of consultation, and I'm telling you this, and you've read it well, it gives an opinion. Simply to get involved in the process, therefore, it is necessary that the republican authority, the state, has data, and has co-operation in whether the Serbian language programme is such that it has an effect, or whether it is pro-forms given to listen to Serbian language lessons, which is the official language. I must tell you that on this standard, I insist that this norm is something that will alter bad practice, and help our fellow citizens, members of other national minorities who apply to have a problem, especially young generations, with what they learn from the Serbian language school.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26838	The word has a folk letter from Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26839	Minister, we believe that this member of the law will not solve this, but rather make the situation worse when it comes to further education. I can say from personal experience, I went to Serbian high school, and in my class I had colleagues and Hungarians, Romanians, besides Slovaks and Serbs, who had previously attended primary school in their native language. Believe me, there were really big problems. Imagine now the situation so that the Serbian language teaching programme as a non-intrinsic language is not uniform and that every national council gives its opinion. Imagine a situation where Slovaks learn Serbian by one programme, Romanians by another, and Hungarians by third. It is true that the promoter predicted that national councils could be founders or can be in general or partially transferred their founding rights when it comes to educational institutions. But these institutions are an integral part of a network of educational institutions in Serbia. They'll have a certain autonomy, but they're part of one system. Each national minority is characterized by a specific specificity, but also a common feature. All of them together with the majority of the people are part of this society. In doing so, there is no limit to the rights of our members of the national minorities, but rather to prevent a confusion. Take, for example. only one situation where a member of a national minority is going to an educational institution after completion of a primary or secondary school and continues to study in Serbian. In this educational institution, he will not be the only member of the national minority. That's where the real problems are gonna come in. How to coordinate different knowledge, education, different educational programs? Do you think individual programs will be created tailored to each national minority? I don't think that's possible. There is no need to ghettoise national minorities without need. They're an integral part of this society. I think you should accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26840	Two minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26841	Exactly what my predecessor, Mrs. Toman, said, Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians are learning Serbian by different programmes, and there is now this complication. Wanting to banalize, you refused this amendment with an explanation that was too much, I can't say. When we talk about Serbian and Serbian language classes and possible further education in Serbian, that's all right. You just know what, this can be theoretically misused, if this is what it says. Part of Serbian language isn't just grammar. Part of the Serbian language is literature, too, is booklets. The National Council through this "determined national minorities" can say, sorry, this about the color in Kosovo is not good for us because we think that Milos Obilic is a terrorist, not a hero. It's not just grammar. The school programme is about Serbian language, the entire teaching programme. This includes a much broader aspect of grammar and language learning. If you've already complicated the law so much into a small intestine, as the people say, you've been able to figure out exactly what you mean here, or an explanation of why the amendment refuses to fit into the law. Then we wouldn't be talking like this. A certain national minority may not like something from a teaching programme from certain books and lecture the Serb people as a majority and say no, we think Gabriel Principe was a cruel assassin, as it is represented somewhere. That's what this is about. It's not a matter of grammar, it's a much wider problem. Here you could go as clearly, at least as you could explain why this amendment is being rejected. We continue to insist that this amendment be adopted and invite all MPs to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26842	Two minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Pavle Marchok, Đura Muchenski, Lodi Gabor, Petar Kuntic, Maraci Nandor and Tot Tamash together have submitted an amendment proposing the addition of titles above Article 13. The government and the Committee on International Relations have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic. The word has an MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26843	This amendment concerns Article 14 which speaks of other competences in the field of education when it comes to national councils of national minorities. If you have carefully read this like I have, then you will see many competencies, among other things, that the National Council can propose to the Founder, meaning the Republic, the AP or the local self-government unit, the independence of an isolated school where the minority language continues. I know the situation where education and the network of schools are at stake, and the network of schools in Serbia, is also trying to streamline. We had this law on the foundation of education and education systems, it will likely be voted on Friday, where, through a change in funding methods, it is practically trying to streamline school networks. There are many separate departments, where you have two, three, four, five students. Children who are members of the national minority and children who are not members of the national minority also attend these separate classes. If the National Council is given this kind of authority to suggest self-determination of a separate department, then believe that all national councils will, precisely to save those so-called so-called. small schools of termination due to the irrationality of their functioning, resorting to this mechanism. Speaking of rationalization, do you know the difference between school and separate department? The difference is that the isolated department is not burdened with the administration. The administration is common in central school, with students and teaching staff in separate departments. You don't have executives here, you don't have a secretary, you don't have special accounting. So this possibility is contrary to our efforts to save, because of all the troubles that have hit us. Yesterday we discussed the Environment Fund, and we had reason not to set up a supervisory board because of the effects of the global economic crisis and the desire for the state to save. If we now have a lot of new schools created by separate departments, then it won't be rationalization, not saying that as soon as you talk about segregation, isolation, etc., that it is being imposed again and that this law is going to do a lot of damage to the members of the national minority itself because it will somehow result in ghettoisation and segregation. Another unusual thing here, when it comes to a student, is that there are now adults, the National Council gives its opinion in the requalification and qualification process. I don't get this at all. So, what difference does it make that a member, say, of the Romanian people and needs qualifications and qualifications, because he's out of work and wants to find a new job on the labour market and he's decided to do it, what does that have to do with the national council? Why would the National Council even have a chance to get involved in these things?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26844	Two minutes and 45 seconds have been used by the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26845	So I would like to refer to Article 14(7), which the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia has written the amendment. So Article 12 and Article 14 of this law would really be seen as a contribution to the regulatory confusion that this law needs to produce and make such effects. What I'm noticing is, I just see that this advocacy has no limits, it's going to be such ridiculous details that we really need to comment on both members of the parliamentary group. Therefore, here is point 7), so the National Council has jurisdiction – to give an opinion on the process of identifying the number of students for enrolment in high school, as well as in the process of granting consent to the number of students to acquire professional training, requalification, qualifications and specialization. Please, they're pure pedagogical categories. As long as the students are in one department, the profession does not decide the national council. There is no need to give jurisdiction to the national council to interfere with what is not its own. Further, requalification, prequalification and specialization; I want to do a specialization in the field of pedagogy for which I am expert and I need to report to the National Council to get that approval. That's totally ridiculous. You're turning one national minority into a ghetto. You're insulating people. Life doesn't stop by making a law where you can run to the National Council any minute. That best shows what we're saying. You actually intend to politicize all of this, that political parties, which will actually be behind national councils, represent someone who will decide – whether I will do the specialisation, whether I will take the kinological exam. Please don't make an absurd act of law, there's no need for this. This law is necessary, but let's limit ourselves to what his measure is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26846	Two minutes and seven seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Chiplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26847	I suggest we read together what this norm is -- it gives an opinion, it doesn't approve. That opinion can be negative. That negative opinion, the one to whom it belongs and to whom jurisdiction remains, is not binding. (Donka Banovic, from the post: Then why does it say that an opinion is given? ) For the simple reason why, as with point 3 above, when we talk about giving an opinion on the plan and programme of Serbian, as an immaterial language, interaction and communication with competent state authorities is needed. We must admit that often in Belgrade or Novi Sad, therefore, in government seats often peripherally located problems find it difficult to find a solution, although the solution is very simple. So by giving an opinion, we just wanted to establish communication and communication in situations where a certain number of people suffer or find it difficult to exercise their rights. This is also a matter of practice and no one will have the obligation of course to go to his national council, the president of the National Council, to get any approval, since it clearly states here that the national council is giving an opinion to whoever has jurisdiction. I repeat, when someone gives an opinion it's nothing quantifiable, it's advisory, and the purpose is actually that communication that is not now available. I repeat, the basic idea, the basic intensity, and I've met a number of these cases since I've been a minister, because I've had national councils coming to me, that often a problem that lasts for a long time is very easy to solve, only that these communications are.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26848	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26849	Since I do not have the right to reply, it is likely that Mrs Comic is not chaired, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Minister, do we realize that in every attitude and article where you say "national council of national minorities gives an opinion" that it is your intention to improve communication, basic communication between national councils and certain national authorities, because you just told me? So, that's giving an opinion, that's not binding. I also know, I have experience in this area. I remember a couple of years ago, it was an affirmative action, when one national council had several different lists when it came to the enrollment of certain members of the national minority, I think it was both high schools and colleges. I'm saying that these attitudes can be very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, You say here, everyone will interpret this law, "gives an opinion" and you interpret it – that this authority does not have to accept that opinion. What will you get in response to one or more national councils, when you complain that this organ does not accept what we say or think about a certain thing?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26850	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Here you go, miss or Mrs. Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26851	Miss, thank you. On behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment proposing to delete item 10 in article 14. Point 10) says that, among other things, it is within the competence of the National Education Council to give an opinion in the process of allocation of funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units, which are allocated through public competition to institutions and associations in the field of education. The Serbian Progressive Party believes this should not be within the jurisdiction of the national council. National councils cannot give opinions on who should receive funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units, which are allocated through a public competition. We believe that these funds should be allocated to whoever has the best program. In your explanation, you're saying that it's an advisory opinion, not a binding character. It doesn't change anything again. The National Council will not make direct decisions, but will decide in an indirect manner. Also, we believe that there is a possibility of possible abuse in the allocation of funds. The state should help minorities, allow them to compete, but if national councils are given the privilege, then why call a public competition? Public competition should ensure the equality of all institutions, not the privilege, not the advantage of someone, as you say, just giving an opinion that cannot possibly be objective, but actually deciding on the distribution of funds. Since you have not accepted this amendment, I suggest you abolish the public competition institution. State administration authorities should determine the amount of funds they can allocate from the budget, and national councils will decide which institution, an association in the field of education, it should belong to. There's something else that bothered me at this point of 10. The bill of law, you wrote - autonomous provinces in unity. I don't think that's very trendy of you, but in the future I ask you not to repeat such spelling mistakes, because I come from Vojvodina and I would remind you that Serbia has two autonomous provinces, Kosovo and Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26852	Anyone else? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic, who has a word at the same time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to participation in the management of cultural institutions. We move on to that part of the law relating to culture. As far as SNS Tomislav Nikolic is concerned, we are fully in agreement with this norm that you gave in law, that national councils can appoint a member of the board of directors. We believe that this is a very dobronorm, but in the follow-up of this article, we think that a serious failure has been made, i.e. it is possible for each national council to appoint one member to the board of directors of a cultural institution, which it considers to be of particular importance, for which it has an interest. I think it puts us in a situation where you will have more members of the board of directors appointed by national councils than local self-government, or not, because local self-government will react, change the statutes, and will appoint more board members. All in all, we will come to a body that is very bulky, very dysfunctional, and we think that this part in this Article 16 is completely unnecessary, that one representative of national councils, the one behind whom everyone stands, can fully represent all national advice, and most often it is about environments that are multinational, which have already been affirmed by members of national minorities through some public and political life, and they are already in those institutions, so it seems to us that you may have exaggerated some norms in this article and that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26854	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26855	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 17 speaks of what other competences of the National Council are in the field of culture and says the National Council determines which institutions and manifestations are in the area of culture of particular importance for the preservation, promotion and development of the specificities and national identity of a particular national minority. On behalf of the SRS, I asked that at the end of this text stand -- in accordance with the Constitution and other laws of the Republic of Serbia. You told me in your answer that it was understood. I want to tell you that this is not understood, because that means you wouldn't need this law. So we have passed a mass of laws that regulate this matter of national minorities, and through the law on the use of flags, anthems, national holidays, basic and middle education, higher education, culture, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination, etc. In my view, this law is completely excessive and it is indeed brought to political purposes, and it will show time, a pure instrumentisation of national minorities, but good. If it is as you say it is, then why is it not the preamble of the Constitution that says that the state authorities have an obligation to ensure, in accordance with the Constitution in Kosovo and Metohija, the presence of the state of Serbia, but is exactly happening vice versa, national institutions and national institutions from Kosovo and Metohija are withdrawing to the interior of Serbia, such as the Co-ordination Committee of Serbia's MUP. I have to tell you for the end that as a Serbian, there was a discussion here on the subject, I am very offended by the celebration of the national flag day in Bujanovac, Presevo, etc., as every Serb, I think. And you now think carefully about what with this law and the adoption of some amendments further enable those who do not think well of the state, even though we have declared and declared a civil state, so we are all equal and with the same rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26856	The 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. He's not here. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga, to article 18. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Aligrudić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26857	So here we go back to that question we talked about about about about 45 minutes ago. It's a question of the Corps' rights to national councils and what they can do. You said from jurisdiction in the field of notice that they have founding rights and you saw those founding rights in one way that is not illogical, from the aspect of your thinking, and even from one of my aspects of thinking about these things, it's the first thing that would occur to me, to allow them to establish a company or any institution that could create a message. What's the problem here, though? Here the problem is that national councils in this context are seen as a couple of excellencies of political bodies. The national councils will obviously be influenced, and their formation, political entities, particularly political parties representing the interests of national minorities in certain areas of the state. I agree that it doesn't matter whether it's Vojvodina or some other side of our country. In the case of political influence, it is not difficult to conclude that even then by meeting this legal norm set out in Article 18 of the Law, certain political parties of national minorities have thus had a blank political impact on the realization and realization of the public vote. I don't think that's fair or correct. I don't think it's in the spirit, or in accordance with our legal system. Then we return to how we read the provisions of Article 75(2), so it is said -- through collective rights of members of national minorities, it is thought of members of national minorities, no one is talking about political parties, but we certainly need to take care of the way and the mechanism of how national councils are made, about what you proposed in the law, those two forms in which it can be realised, and then it is not difficult to conclude who will play a predominant role in the functioning of national councils. Then it is said - members of national minorities, directly or through their representatives, which is the case, take part in a decision or decide for themselves on certain issues related to their culture, education, notification and official use of language and letter, in accordance with the law. Now let's see how you from here from this constitutional and legal norm have come to the conclusion that national councils should set up companies or institutions, with the aim of becoming founders of public ballots, because that is the only way to make it public. I really can't find it here, in addition to my best wishes, nor can I see that the way it affects or decides on certain issues, or participates in deciding on certain issues related to notification, that this can be done in this way, and that's what comes from the spirit of constitutional norm. If you apply that rule in this case, then you have done something that would not be positive discrimination, but flagrant discrimination against Serbian citizens in this area. I don't think this provision can even endure constitutional verification. If the Constitutional Court were to work the way the Constitutional Court of a State should, it would not leave such a standard in legal life. Of course, we can read the same regulation in several ways. It's an old saying - three lawyers, five opinions. I am not inclined to interpret the provisions concerning human rights, and certainly the rights of national minorities, in that context, restrictively and I would never do so. But I don't think this is about unrestrictive interpretation, but this is about a single interpretation that is carried out from some political motives that you obviously, not you personally, but I mean a consolidation in power, there are certain agreements with individual political parties in Serbia, not national minorities. That kind of dialogue you can't even do, you're simply not capable of it, not you personally, but from your position in the state, nor is it possible. You have, therefore, introduced something here that would be discrimination against the rest of Serbia, which would be discrimination and local self-government, even beyond those rules that the Law on Local Self-Government provides in certain cases when it comes to those municipalities where there are national minorities. I think you've gone too far here. I think you've gone one step further here, and some selfless commitment to not being national minorities, but to read to the political parties, whatever you say, this is very clear, providing a dominant influence in the media sphere, and in this very direct way, you could have simply done it in some other way, but you didn't remember, that we were teaching you how, today, it doesn't occur to us. If we were in power, we would probably find a proper compromise that would be in line with the Constitution and that would be in line with the legal order. One more thing. You have said here in Article 18 - national council, in a manner established by law, on its own, probably by this law, since I do not see which other law you prefer, independently or together with another legal person, to establish institutions and companies for the performance of news and television activities, printing, reproduction of recorded media, and exercise of the rights and obligations of founders. You're trying to convince us that you've limited this right to national councils that when they start a company, they can only register it for these purposes. How come and why? I can't understand that, in addition to my best wishes. So, on the other hand, how can you limit them in that? Where does the Constitution give you the right to restrict your right to any subject in this country, even if it is a national council, to these areas? Why can't they start a company to do something else? Maybe I can. You've forgotten another provision of article 75. The constitution and one part of the sentence that I have read, which is said to be, taking part in the decision-making decide for themselves on certain issues related to culture, education and so on. direct or through their representatives. This is about national councils. Every member of the national minority, every national minority can be organised through these forms, and it can be organised in other ways, and the establishment of texts in Serbia is free, the establishment of companies is free, it cannot be subject to, except those general restrictions, no other restrictions, nor can they be laid down by such a law. So, if you've listened carefully to me, whatever side you turn this around and whatever apologetics you apply, it will show a certain cavity. So we simply think that this provision as intended is not good, that it does not produce its real effect and that it makes sense to satisfy the interests of members of the national minority who should protect their rights guaranteed by the Constitution, but in practice a certain kind of local media terror will be carried out by certain political groups. This is what will show in practice, even the opposite of the will of individual members of minority communities, and I don't think that this should be the objective of a law discussing the provision of Article 75. The Constitution. We would always be ready with you and anyone to talk about the full extent of the implementation of all the rights of the Constitution, even something that does not say in the Constitution, if those extended rights can benefit members of the national minority. We have to take great care of what we write, because the eye meeting some of the needs that work this way at first sight in the way you predicted it, very easily later it can be thrown into its opposite, so when it happens in practice, then we or you, or whoever is in that position that day when it shows its opposite, think about how to change norms, and that those negative effects in reality do not show. That's what you should think about at the beginning, not when things start to happen. That's why we were very careful when it comes to this provision, and that's why we were very critical when it comes to this provision. That's why there are amendments like this that we've submitted. It's up to you to accept them or not, it's up to you to give the apologetics that suits you, but we don't think this is a good norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26858	Mr. Chiplic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Chiplet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26859	I think in this debate, the best methodology is when we have a dilemma to see what the Constitution says. A little later than that article in 75, the constitution contains Article 79, which lists the rights of members of national minorities. It says - members of national minorities have the right, so the lists, and somewhere near the end, say - to set up their own means of public intelligence in accordance with the law. To a large extent, I have taken part in your debate as an argument for such a member, for such a solution, because we have found ourselves in a situation that media laws, which generally systemically regulate this area, simply say nothing about this constitutional right of national minorities. When we wrote this provision of Article 118, then we largely, I repeat, had in mind the practice that exists under the law on the transfer and designation of jurisdiction of the 2001 AP Vojvodina and the province's acts, which is already part of the jurisdiction of the national councils registered in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and in a number of possible solutions we chose this. We did not go one step further, counting that in some future change of media laws this procedure, i.e. failure to create this legal void, will now, under this law, be respected, so it will in a certain way ensure notification as part of the right to self-government. We simply didn't want to, and we weren't allowed to enter the process, legally we were able, through the Lex specialis, through the provisions of this law, to supplement media laws now in this way. We just realized that fact and eventually gave one modeality not only in the field of television, but in general, in the field of information, how the national councils realised this constitutional right. (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: Replica, just a short one. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26860	Mr. Zeljko Tomic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26861	Mr. Chiplet, I insist you answer this question. Repeat the position of Article 1 of the 18th National Council, in a manner established by law, independently or together with another legal person, may set up institutions and companies for the exercise of news and broadcasting activities, printing and reproduction of recorded media and the exercise of the rights and obligations of founders. I understand your intentions. But did you interfere with the mind that at this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia more adoption is under way or God has given another law, media law, amendments and additions to the public information law, where it says that the founder must pay a deposit of 50,000 euros? Nowhere does it say that national councils will be excluded from it, you have not written anything about it in the law, you have not negotiated with the Minister or the Ministry of Culture and Information, Mr Bradic. I'll remind you that he recently said that he was making the law in co-operation with the Ministry of Justice, so the people of the Justice Department denied him that there was no co-operation. I ask you - what is happening in the Serbian government? Did you deal with him or just no deal, are you in a fight, are you in some misunderstandings in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I'm curious -- media laws don't say anything about the constitutional rights of national minorities, I'm talking about this issue. Yeah, that's true, but they're saying, here's the one on the agenda, at this session, they're talking about founding rights, 50,000 euros deposit. Will national councils, through ministries or through companies, what do you turn them into, be able to do that? Have you thought about regulating that? The scandalous and scandalous law, which I warmly hope cannot see the light of day in the Republic of Serbia envisions a deposit of 50,000 euros for the founder. Please tell the Serbian public if you as Minister of Human and Minority Rights can guarantee that national councils will be able to pay these deposits on their own, as it says here, or along with another legal person.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26862	Mr. Aligrudic, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26863	I'd like a replica of the minister's presentation, if I don't use group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26864	There's no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26865	Then I'd use group time. So, you listed the provision of Article 79. The Constitution, which includes, among other things, the right to preserve speciality, includes this possibility, i.e. this right, to practically establish public information funds. You know, public intelligence can be different. There is a roof law dealing with the issue of public intelligence and public opinion and it sets out certain rules of the game. Indeed, we don't know what will be the result of the vote on the information law, as my predecessor said, and we really don't know if the amendment of the government will be adopted, which erases the scandalous one from Article 1 on 50,000 euros of the founding role, and even if it doesn't delete the remaining provisions that are very difficult for each founder, which means that it is a very credit rating company and that it can endure that there is no more than 90 days in the blockade for the previous year, so that it doesn't come up with a simple ipso facto to shut down its vote. There is no safeguard provision. They're practically referring in this part. On the other hand, you're forgetting what I've been commenting on. I made an observation that you remembered that setting up national councils is an ideal opportunity for national councils, as such, as exclusively political bodies, to give this prerogative. When all these rights are mentioned to preserve speciality, all of them can be directly realized, let them not, but let them be. In the end, no one, beyond this law, defends members of national minorities to establish their own reputation and to represent in that vote some of the interests they see in order to preserve their speciality, but that does not mean that they have to exercise that right. The meaning of the constitutional provision is exactly the opposite, that it cannot be disabled. So that no one in this country can prevent anyone from doing such a thing, but I remain in the position that the provision written in Article 18 is not a good provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26866	National MP Olena Papuga submitted an amendment adding the title and the new Article 19a after article 19. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP, the Verica Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26867	Article 23 of the proposal provides that the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government, at the initiative of national councils, can transfer fundamental rights to educational institutions, cultural institutions or public information institutions, of course when it comes to national minorities. Then you're saying that the contract regulates the rights of management to be transferred and the annual volume of funds provided in the budget of the Republic, the province or the local self-government unit to finance the activity of the institution. We in the SRS think that this is not a good solution and we have suggested that the financing of the institutions, which I initially mentioned, is based on the share in founding rights, because funding of educational, cultural and informative institutions must be in line with the founding rights. We've been talking today all day, especially in the afternoon, that this law does not commit to the existence of national councils. It opens up the possibility, if such advice is to be formed, it really shouldn't be a special concern for anyone other than those who possibly want to form it. You say that you do not accept such an amendment because in this situation, the national council has no own resources and it is passed on to the founding rights, and not the obligation to finance the work, which we propose. So whether they have funds or do not have national advice, it really does not care and the problem of this law. In a certain way, the law regulated it and what was provided for by this law should be sufficient. Of course, national councils will be financed from donations, from some voluntary contributions and members, etc. From these means, they can do whatever they want under this law, and if they don't have the means, then they really can't pass it on. Imagine that a national council in a small town, where representatives of a national minority may have a national council of 15 members and they get a part where they can teach in their language...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26868	You're already talking for a minute and 30 seconds more. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26869	Mr. Minister, today you have said one sentence that the SRS can truly support, which is that Serbia is proud of the 23 minorities that exist in Serbia. Serbia certainly cannot be proud of this law, it is not good enough and it is superficial. I think that everything that is generally, including in particular, can be expressed as an objection to this law, that it has sublimated and in one explicit way brought out by colleague Aleksandar Martinovic and I would say freely that it has drawn what is not good in this law. As for my amendment, he follows Mrs. Radete's amendment and is compatible with him and with our position. We have not disputed the right to transfer the founding rights to certain institutions, but we believe that in Article 23, you have not sufficiently developed the responsibility of those to whom these rights will be transferred. In my amendment, I suggested that in terms of budgetary financing, which relates to the material position of the institutions, 'in terms of budgetary financing', it should be deleted. Why? The fact is that national councils will be financed from budgets from national to local levels, but when you entrust someone with the rights, then some responsibility must arise from those rights. Someone will have founding rights over some of the institutions that have been invested in, that have been created for decades. In this article, the responsibility of those to whom the founding rights will be transferred is not recognised in this respect, especially in terms of material position, after the transfer of the rights of those institutions. It's the easiest thing to do on a budget. The national councils will not be financed solely from the budget. As far as I can see in the law, it will be financed from donations and other revenues, so we wanted the material responsibility for the state of the institution to be proportionately divided according to the participation in founding rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26870	The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26871	Article 28 begins with the sixth chapter, which speaks of the selection of national councils, which in principle and all who have read know that the Proposer proposes two ways of choice, directly and indirectly or indirectly to direct elections for the territory of the entire state and directly through the Electoral Assembly. First, through a series of amendments, we have proposed that any member describing the direct choice be deleted, because we deeply believe that national councils should be chosen indirectly as so far through the electoral congregations. First of all, because this is how you violate the Constitution and impose an obligation on members of national minorities to plead, and according to the Constitution, they are not obliged to declare their nationality, to be entered in a special electoral list and, if they meet the requirement to enter 50% minus 20%, that direct or direct elections will be held. If that condition is not met, then it goes this other way. Secondly, you give national councils, or minorities the right to decide which way of choice they will use. It's also not good, because it's like in local elections telling local self-government to decide for itself what way of choosing to apply, whether it's proportional or majority. That's where the difference starts. Will those national councils chosen through the electoral congregations be on the same level? You will have practically an electoral assembly as a result of the inability to form a special polling list, does this mean that there will be national advice of the first and second order, because the second electoral choice of this council stems from the fact that you do not have enough members of that national minority on that special polling list.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26872	The 28th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Olena Papuga and jointly by Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26873	Madam President, Mr Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, Article 28 speaks about how elections for national councils can be held and talks further on what conditions direct elections for national councils will be held. This stance suggests that direct elections for national councils will be held when 50% of the national minority members per the results of the last census are listed at the time the elections are scheduled and all down 20%. This basically means that 40% of national minorities should be listed in the special polling list according to the list plus one. Furthermore, according to the provisions of this law, the establishment of special electoral lists and the general choice for national councils is satisfied with one of the basic principles, which is the principle of volunteering. Therefore, minority members do not have the obligation to enroll in special electoral lists and to declare themselves nationalally, but is considered their right, which will be done in the forms prescribed by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and will be entered in the special electoral list before the authorities. There is no obligation here to enroll members of national minorities in the special voter lists. I think this number of 50% minus 20% is a really large number and it will practically be inconclusive. This figure of 50% will be reduced by 20%, given that the multi-party system in Serbia has been functioning for 19 years and we do not have valid and up-to-date general voter lists, and I believe that it will be even harder to form. That is why I have submitted the amendment, because I believe that direct elections are democratic and that national councils elected in the direct elections will have greater legitimacy. Instead of 50%, I suggest it stands at 20% according to the results of the last list. In this case, I am in some way balanced by direct and indirect elections, i.e. elections through the electoral assembly. For example, in the case of members of national minorities whose number according to the last census is above 100,000, 100 electricians are required, which means that each electorate should collect 100 signatures, that 10,000 voters directly participate in the election process. The amendment I propose in the election process, in the worst case, if it is members of national minorities 100,000, will include 20,000 voters with voting rights in the election process. If we take into account the way special voter lists are formed, I believe that from voters who are listed on a special polling list in this way at least 90% will participate in the electoral process, which means that in any case that number will be higher than the electoral voting method.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26874	Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26875	My amendment is similar to Bajramov's. Mr Chiplic, if when the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted, no bright mind had even thought that the constitution of the Republic of Slovenia proposed an electoral assembly as a means of electing the MPs, then it is indeed a wonder why we went to such solutions, before a single vote, a man, a single voice, as the peak of democracy and the participation of citizens in democracy, in elections, in managing and achieving the right of sovereignty, and with members of national minorities to choose national councils, introduce something that I simply think is an illegal exception. If we have such a parliamentary system, such an electoral system in the Assembly, it is logical to transfer it to all the organs, both state and para-state constraints. Is it possible to organise direct secret elections for the congregation or the council of the local community, and for what you say is so important, as a national council, you go to the electoral congregations? With the amendment, I have proposed something that aims to allow as many national councils as possible to be elected directly, not in the electoral congregations. One mathematics was used to take into account that according to the latest census data, there are also minors, and some other persons, while only those who are 18 and over on the day of the election have the right to vote. I just don't understand why you've defined yourself like this, but I see who wrote and why he wrote. The leaders of national minority political parties wrote to preserve their positions only.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26876	National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 29 and 29. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26877	Article 29 speaks of the principles of choice of national councils, which lists the principles, and among other things the specific principles of choice are volunteering, proportionality and democracy. Here's the problem with this particular principle of volunteering. If the condition is to hold direct or direct elections, enrollment of members of the national minority in a special voter's list, therefore, is a condition that this choice could be conducted, then it is not a matter of volunteering. Then it's about the obligation of a member of the national minority to sign up, because if it's not enough, then it's going to go that other way. It's not about volunteering, it's about conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26878	National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 30 and Article 30. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 31 and 31. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26879	So, all these subsequent amendments to the members are due to the fact that we don't think it should go to direct elections for national councils, but we suggest that it be just an electoral way of choosing. All other amendments will be and are practically amendments to the members who talk about it. What I just said, therefore, is an active electoral law, a special condition for obtaining an active voting right for the direct selection of members of the national council is enrollment in a special electoral list of national minorities. To remind us all, since we know this, that a special electoral list is no exception. We had and now we still have the election board to get a copy of the special voter's list and then members of the election board know which soldiers are at the time of the elections on the territory of the municipality and that they can vote and exercise their right to vote in that polling post. It's that kind of voter list. It does not affect that people must declare their nationality in order to have an active electoral right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26880	National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 32 and 32. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26881	Just for a little while. In addition to what counterpart Banovic has already said in which direction all these amendments will go, in the sense that we are exclusively for electoral elections, here is a very interesting Article 32 – for a member of the National Council may be a elected member of a national minority who meets the conditions laid down in Article 31 of this Law and does not perform the office of judge, prosecutor or judge of the Constitutional Court. I'm saying this for the public. On the one hand, why should the council of national minorities be just members of national minorities? Come on, that's what many MPs used to say today. Why the MPs should not be excluded from the elections to the national council. Why just the judicial authority, what about the executive and the legislation? It means that anyone from the executive and legislative authority can be a member of the national council, and only from the court, writes judges, prosecutors or judges of the Constitutional Court, they cannot be members, they are exceptional. Look out, very interesting. This member, in my opinion, is one of the worst members of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26882	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 32, and the essence of this amendment is to prevent the merger of two functions, the functions of members in the national council of some national minority and the functions of the Prosecutor's Judge, the Constitutional Court or some function in the Executive Authority system. We believe that this is necessary to ensure that the National Council is indeed one body that will not be subjective, which will not be biased and which will be maximumly independent in its work. If you allow a judge, prosecutor or judge of the Constitutional Court to be a member of the National Council, then it can be harmful for the national council itself, and on the other hand it can be harmful for the very function that this man performs. There can indeed be a conflict of interest when one is a judge, while at the same time being a member of the national council of a national minority. The government has given one, in my opinion, extremely insubstantial argument that the amendment cannot be accepted because in some cases it might not be possible to provide a sufficiently high-quality number of people who are interested and involved in carrying out tasks within the competence of the National Council. Thus, the quality of the work of the council itself could be below what is necessary and expected. In an explanation of why amendments of the MPs of the SRS are not accepted, there are many of these formulas: what if, if so, it could happen, etc. It is obvious that there are extremely tense arguments, i.e. tense formulations, which do not rest on real grounds. If one national community, or national minority, is sufficiently numerous and sufficiently emancipated to come out of its ranks, judges and judges of the Constitutional Court, ministers, so that it is possible that the national minority does not have enough qualified people to sit on the national council.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26884	The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. Here you go, Mr. Hajdarevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26885	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has submitted an amendment to Article 32, which is slightly different from the amendment my colleagues were talking about earlier. Our amendment amends Article 32 so that it reads: For a member of the National Council, he may be a elected member of a national minority who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 31 of this Law and does not serve as a member of the People's Parliament, of the Government, of the Municipality, of the Mayor, of the Council, of the Judges, of the Prosecutors or of the Constitutional Court. Through this amendment, we wanted to point out that it is not clear whether this law or national councils are subject to the Law on conflict of interest, whether national councils are also subject to the law on the availability of information. The answer you gave to this amendment, which is the same as in response to Mr Martinovic's amendment, is offensive to the national minorities themselves, because you say – to minority communities that count a small number of members may not be able to provide for the full work of the national world sufficient numbers of people who are interested, etc. The bill provides for national minorities with 10,000 members to have a national council of 15 members. I cannot believe that in the national councils some national minority, as you just said, Mr. Chiplic, there are 5,000 members, he cannot find his 15 members, who are neither MPs nor committeemen, do not exercise that legislative authority, do not exercise executive or judicial authority to be members of the National Council. This article, as you have defined it, would make sense if you would accept our amendment to article 70 which speaks of the selection of national councils. If you accept this amendment, then it absolutely makes sense that your proposal to elect members of national councils in Article 70, because we cannot allow national councils to remain ghettos of individual political parties, or national councils of national minorities should show absolute democracy and these national councils should be joined by a broad range of members of national minorities. So national minorities can't represent only the political elite, whether it's the ministerial, parliamentary, committee or any other. It is extremely important that we know that answer - are national advice subject to the Law on conflict of interest? That is the fundamental question, the fundamental question is the answer to this amendment. That's why we asked this question, because what happens if the president of a national minority's National Council is also a minister in a future government for human and minority rights, and he determines the distribution of funds himself; for example, he is mayor, or president of a municipality, and also president of a national council of some national minority? I think we can come to a conflict of interest here, and that's why we gave this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26886	Mr. Chiplic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26887	Your Honor, this is also one of the questions and one of the norms whose norms we have devoted a lot of debate, and then with the ultimate scruples came norming. What we must all accept is that there is no number of national minorities that are few. They face a number of obstacles now in place. It is possible that these obstacles over time will disappear, but this law is passed for this and for some future time, and therefore, it was my will, we respected that fact as well. From now on, the 15 national councils and over 25 national minorities have been formed, practically all those that have not formed are few. In the talks, when conceived solutions to this law, and these talks defined the most way of choice, it came from one fact, that members of these national minorities are not willing or that they have certain objective fences in order to show their national membership. This fact, of course, cannot lead to them losing both their right or their ability to form a national council. Also, believe me, there are national minorities in which at least two or three, to say the election cycles, the mandated cycles of the National Council would be needed to make new people more involved in the work of national councils. This implies that we really have the fact that certain national minorities by age are older than the average population in Serbia. Otherwise, we know about the white plague and we know about the average population in Serbia. I've appreciated that, and that's why we're predicting it this way, with the possible objections that are given here. I understand these remarks and I respect them, but with the fact that the situation among a large number of national minorities is that that is the case. At the end of the line and the electoral elections have existed so far, they have been guided by this fact and we have left the electoral elections as one of the options, precisely because people do not want to enroll in special voter lists.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26888	National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 33 and 33. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26889	Yes, a member of the 33rd law reads: "The vote for the election of members of the National Council is organised only in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. '"Why "just"? Why couldn't our citizens, the bearers of our passports, the people of dual citizenship as a dissident at the embassy vote? Why are they limited to election rights, what are they doing? If we're so full of praise for ourselves, I'm talking about the government, that everything is progressing, that everything is democratisation, that it's now, my God, the whole expansion of these national councils, why isn't it possible for people to vote? I don't get it. It could at least explain our amendment -- why to delete, to stand at least a different formulation, which is otherwise the same for the last few amendments. It's a general flossula. Why didn't you say here why only in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Why is the electoral right of our people being distracted?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26890	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26891	I also wanted to talk about this amendment because it is contrary not only to the Constitution, but also to the previous provisions of this law. For example, under Article 30 — the electoral right of members of national minorities to choose national councils includes the rights of members of the national minority to choose and be elected. Article 56. The constitution says - every full-time and business-worthy citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to choose and be elected. Election law is general and equal. The elections are free and direct, and the vote is a secret and personal and electoral right to enjoy legal protection, in accordance with the law. I didn't expect a better answer than your ministry, since you didn't engage in these answers, Mr. Minister. You gave a typical response to the amendments to several members, which the DSS parliamentary group requested to abolish the direct elections, and you saw this as an amendment requiring the abolition of direct elections, and the amendment had a much wider background, it was about our citizens. If the Law on selecting MPs guarantees elections at polling stations abroad, how come members of the national minority can't all choose, maybe even be elected, if they live abroad? Now the question arises here - why did you underestimate members of the national minorities in the light of the previous amendment? That's what I expected from you, because you voted for the information law, so that part of the science that you're currently representing in the government doesn't interest you at all. How could you get away from saying that there are national minorities who won't have enough people to participate in these jobs, enough engaged. So in those 15, we have to predict that one can perform five or six functions, because there aren't enough in 15, that's Mr. Minister humiliating for minority members. I'm surprised none of our fellow members of the national minorities got up and said, "Don't underestimate us and don't humiliate us." If we're not 15, we don't deserve to have a national minority council, if we're not 15 that we want to do. No, you listened to minority politicians, made some kind of deal with them, some kind of deal. Here there have been extraordinary amendments submitted by members of national minorities - you rejected them as snotty because they do not fit you in the general concept of rule over the minority through the organs that you choose. Now you're saying they need two or three mandates to fit in to do the job. Where does it say in the Constitution that it takes two or three mandates for a person to perform it well? True, you needed it. You are from the Constitutional Court, to one office in the ministry, to the other, to the third, and perhaps on the fifth, you will finally be a good minister. The minister who is the minister of human and minority rights, who did not come here to defend the information law, is not a minister to me who will care about citizens' rights. No, you've deprived yourself of the right to defend your matter here. This is your matter. It's not the Secretary of Culture and Information matter. All members are concerned with the right to deliver opinions, opinion, court, attitude, and you have simply avoided that fact, and you have come here now to talk about how you have negotiated with someone about the appearance of this law. I don't admit any public debates and any deals unless they're with the MPs of the National Assembly. This is a public debate, this debate can't replace anything. This is a debate with arguments, concrete, depending on whether or not this law will pass, so I strongly resent that in this law you have left some facts to the officials, which do not care, they write there - copy, press, and give an explanation to five different amendments, whose function is different. I repeat, you are in response to the request of MPs to vote outside the country, instead of saying -- it's expensive, democracy is expensive, we can't organise it, we don't have voting lists, we have something to think of, you said -- direct elections can't be lifted. That's not what the amendment asked for. It means no one's even read it. This amendment is not related to the general request of the DSS parliamentary group to abolish direct elections for members of the council. This amendment asked for something completely different, to respect Article 56. The Constitution, article 30 of the law, that everyone has the right to choose and be chosen. If he's gone abroad, let him vote. I wish that all of you here who are now in power and who have been in the past council in power had accepted a proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs by which every citizen abroad could vote, not just the one who is three kilometers from the embassy or consulates in which the vote is organised. It's done by many states, but when you seem to have no votes there, of course you won't accept it. So your advisors who helped you, the minority members, the politicians who helped you write this bill, they said, "Don't tell me how they're going to vote, don't provide them, I won't be able to get a liter of bacon and a liter of sugar to get their vote."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26892	Mr. Chiplic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26893	Reverend Nikolic, I am very proud of the way we worked when we agreed on this law. I'm proud as a man and proud as a lawyer. In doing so, this law is not only the result of political consultations, this law, at least among the people who prepared it, has several thousand kilometers in the legs and space that we have passed, to convince ourselves of certain facts or to get information from the people who were relevant to us that we have just certain solutions. It may seem unusual, but there are really national minorities who have a public engagement, the formation of a national council, the engagement, and not the ability, I didn't talk about it, the problem. It's just like that, it's a fact that's determined in conversation with people. In view of this, the way we have come up with these provisions actually speaks about that we have tried these differences, this factual state of mind, to make flexible provisions, and the public debate that has been organised between both national councils and among members of national minorities without national councils has led to this legislative procedure in this Parliament, and of course we all know that without the will of MPs, this law will not be passed. But I also believe, given the debates so far, that there is a good will among all MPs clubs and understanding of these and these provisions. We've really spent a lot of effort. There is certainly a prior introduction to the specificities of national minorities. You will all be invited when this law is adopted to mark this fact with representatives of national councils, which I believe we will do Friday. They do not have all national minorities and all national councils of politicians, nor do they have political parties, even most of them do not. That's why that kind of thing in management, that's why things like that come up through this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26894	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26895	Well said, Mr. Minister, you haven't read the explanations given by your clerks. Now you've told us here in front of all of us that you've talked about some national minorities and their members who don't want to engage without ever mentioning their ability. Listen to the argument - the amendment is not accepted because in minority communities that number a small number of members may not be able to provide for the full work of the National Council sufficient numbers of people who are interested and involved in doing business. I'm sorry, what's the other word for "involved"? He's capable. Yeah, he's in on it. Not involved, I'm sorry, just to teach you, it stands out to be involved, to the first vowel. Art is ability. Ask Gordana Komic, she can explain everything to everyone, she'll probably do the same for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26896	National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 34 and 34. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26897	And this explanation you've given for not accepting our amendment has nothing to do with the amendment. Someone wrote in automation, read it, I won't tell you what our amendment says, read it, make it a surprise. I just want to say that what we tried to explain is why it is not good that there are direct elections for the national council, the minister best said when he said that there are national minorities who do not want to plead, that they are afraid, and the best thing for that is an interview that has been given by several leaders of national councils of national minorities. One of them is Mr. Mihajlović, here it is for you "News", on Wednesday 8 July 2009, who is our fellow MP and is at the same time a leader in the national council. That's what we're talking about, politicizing. He says so - Roma on the 2002 census officially has 108,000, and there are at least seven times more. That's why we wouldn't have any problems (be careful - we wouldn't have any problems) to fight for direct election of members of the council, although many of my countrymen are afraid to enlist, so it's easier for them to determine the electricians. So we're talking about a large national minority who has a very large number of members and she's afraid to plead. That's what the amendments to the DSS are about. That's what you have to bring, as Minister of Human and Minority Rights, more bills. That's the opposite of Article 47. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that no Serbian citizen is obliged to make a national declaration. Please, we tried to explain why it's important, here's the contribution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26898	National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 35 and 35. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 36 and 36. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 37 and 37. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26899	It is proposed that both members 36 and 37 are deleted. However, article 36 says - costs and fees. When it comes to funding all these planned activities, then we have two short positions. The second position says -- financial resources to conduct the election of the National Council are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course, there is not a word here about who and how it will help and finance the campaign, because all election lists that will run for each national council will also have their own campaigns. So we don't see it from this. I'm sorry the minister's gone because I know the lady knows, but she can't speak to us. Did the Ministry do some kind of elaborate or project that envisioned the cost? How much will it cost all citizens, including all members of national minorities, to hold such direct elections? So we know that there are now 15 national councils, so according to that number, we can assume that at least 15 will be elected. Have you made any calculations on how much that's gonna cost? Will the overall economic crisis of the state, or your ministry, allow it to meet the conditions of holding these elections and, of course, deadlines?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26900	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 38. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Donka Banovic, and then Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26901	I'm just gonna keep doing what I'm talking about, financing. So, the national councils of the national minorities that exist at the moment, is that their long-term mandates have expired, but they work, they have been having big problems financing for almost a year. The National Council of the Bulgarian National Minority had 31 million planned for the budget. The first of January, February and March, the national council did not receive a single dinar, and then in April someone decided that the national council would receive seven million dinars. That doesn't sound like a little number. However, the "Brothership" newspaper, which was the only one printed in the Bulgarian national minority language and its release, was very threatened, for the first time in 50 years. So the Brethren has been funded from the budget for almost 50 years, and now it's being funded, with the National Council taking over its role, but there's no money. After 50 years, the release of the only printed media in Bulgarian has been compromised. We are talking about great achievements here, about great rights, about great things, what we are going to do, and what exists, which is quality and what is a practical and great tradition for individual national minorities, it is at this point very endangered, and not only when the Bulgarian national minority is concerned with their list, but also many other leaves and votes have been threatened.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26902	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26903	As regards amendments to Article 38, I also have objections to those who have submitted the amendment and, of course, to the Government which has given reasons why the amendment does not accept. I think that the DSS parliamentary group, led by the idea of abolishing direct elections for members of the council, has proposed an amendment that erases even the point in which public information funds are required to correctly inform, in accordance with the law, of the course of the elections, of the activities in the elections and to apply the rules on information concerning the electoral process, it is likely to refer to the MPs. Come on now and somehow, they could say by what law, etc. You don't have to cut right to the election information. What did the government say about the rejection of the amendment? The amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the spirit of the bill and the will of members of national minorities to allow national minorities themselves to identify whether they want to choose their representatives directly by democratic elections or indirectly through an electoral assembly. I'm sorry, ma'am, if you've written, since there's no minister now, what makes you think that? The amendment doesn't talk at all about how it wants the DSS parliamentary group to have people elected, but about the information. But you didn't read it, because I don't think you'd be sitting in that bench if you couldn't read it. I don't think you'd be sitting in that bench if you didn't know this stuff. You just don't know what it says. You, then, have signed an argument to Article 37, to Article 36, etc. Really don't underestimate us so much. Don't humiliate us. Come here as ready as we are. It doesn't matter if you get a nice haircut, the minister forgets that you have to go out every five minutes to smoke a cigarette, get comfortable and sit here and look at us and watch when you get home. This is the law. Hundreds of thousands of people will stand by this law. The fates of many people will be by this, many material means. We transfer founding rights to many objects. Who? You tell us, let them choose for themselves how they choose. We say - let's see how to inform about the election, and you say let them choose for themselves how they choose. It really doesn't make sense. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, prevent this will of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Stop this humiliation of the Members of the People. Imagine now that I'd start talking about some other law. What would you tell me? The speaker can only talk about the point on the agenda. Should the government be immersed even when writing an explanation of the refusal or acceptance of the amendment to say exactly which member and to have to do with that member? It has become very unpleasant in the last seven or eight days since you took this pace of casasian or Galoperian, for us MPs to observe the government's representatives in this assembly. Either they're not competent in matter or they don't care what they're doing here, or they're just being paid to sit there in ministries and government, and now the minister says he's gone a thousand miles to write this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26904	It's a waste of your MP's time, and yours and my vote is just one at a time. The assembly majority, more importantly, the citizens of Serbia, thanks to the public in the work, can appreciate what you say, evaluate and suggest, both I and the minister. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to Article 39. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26905	Mr. Minister, I'm so glad you're back, because I want to reprimand you. If you had at least carefully read the amendments submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, at least as carefully as Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who tried to read the amendments and explanations, you would see that the explanation you wrote here absolutely does not stand and has nothing to do with the amendment that we have submitted. So it doesn't apply to this amendment. Even if you had a little more time to look at the reasons you wrote us all, then you would see that the same argument is repeated from the first amendment to the last amendment that we submitted. That's totally humiliating. We have yet made an effort to work this law, to make these amendments. Absolutely no one wanted to read the amendments we wrote. So there's already been several times that we've played the trick of the amendment occasionally to see if you read it. We didn't need to follow it here. It happens here that we have absolutely the same explanation from the first to the last amendment. Gentlemen, that doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26906	The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26907	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, article 39 regulates the disbanding of the National Council. We have submitted an amendment that has reduced the deadline for disbanding the council, or calling the council, from six to three months. Mr. Minister, with our amendment, we wanted to make one balance between rights and obligations. We really welcome the efforts of the state, which it wants and wants to enable minorities to exercise some rights. But you have to accept the fact that these rights give rise to both some obligations and some responsibility. The attitude you have expressed in your reasoning to reject this amendment raises the question of whether you are even interested in the adoption of this law. Watch what you said. A six-month deadline is an appropriate deadline. National councils do not represent units of local self-government, so as often as they meet, they will not justify the purpose of being a council as an institution. Then why all this? Well, I guess it's your intention as a government to establish this, to make this work, not to have such a flexible attitude. These national councils, regardless of the fact that they are the advice of national minorities, will spend the money of this country. They will have the founding rights of certain institutions and you will now be so flexible, you will give them the opportunity to meet at least twice in the course of the year, and spend the entire year on budgets. That's one example, one thing that can be rested here. So, you have to make sure that you establish an equilibrium between the rights that minorities seek and belong to them, but these are the obligations that arise, and you should have shown that in this law. And if you are truly identified for such a thing, you will accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26908	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to Article 40. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26909	This amendment refers to the length of the time period when the replacement of a specific member of the council should be carried out due to inactivity. The amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, envisions that the deadline should be reduced from one year to six months. I think it's an absolutely logical amendment, what a illogical argument it is that a year is an appropriate time to tolerate unhappiness. I really don't understand it, but if we have solutions like this, then it shouldn't be surprising that the whole law will be difficult to implement and we can only imagine what problems Serbia would encounter and what kind of force the charges would be caused by violations of minority rights and obvious violations of the law would be directed towards Serbia in the future if the law were adopted in this proposed text. The constitutional ban on reducing the level of human and minority rights should also not be forgotten, so the question arises whether the adoption of the law in the proposed text would prevent any changes to the concept of self-government and cultural autonomy in the future. Therefore, instead of buying time, bad compromises and short-term provision of government support to new conditions, the bill should be amended, brought into line with the Constitution and envisaged viable solutions, which will not go to the heart of the rule of law and national interests both national majority and national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26910	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 41. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26911	Now it's time to use some of this interview I mentioned, where the leaders of national councils gave quite a bit of material for what we were saying here during our presentation. Here's one of the statements. One of the leaders believes that direct elections more corresponds to large communities concentrated in one space and have good political infrastructure. So what we're talking about here on politicization is what they're saying and what you think you're actually talking to them about, that this law is surprised by some interaction with national councils and with people who were direct participants, since we assume that they were expressing the opinions of their national communities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26912	National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to article 42. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 43. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Esad Dwarf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26913	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, MPs of the Bosniak List, together with the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, have submitted an amendment to Article 43. In fact, we are asking for the amendment of this complete article 43, which would read in our version - the Ministry, using public records of citizens run by state administration authorities under the laws and regulations, to form the initial basis of a special electoral list for national minorities that have established a national council until the entry into force of this law. In the case of a national minority who has not formed a national council by the date of entry into force of this law, the same provision as that of an existing member shall apply. The position that is important is in the extension, that on the initial basis of a special voter's list, a citizen who has voluntarily made a declaration to one of the national minorities referred to in Article 1 and Article 2(2) of this Article may be included in the public records, etc. We felt that this law was extremely decent, acceptable and adequate for all 15 minorities who formed their national council, however, we believe that the amendments, which we have heard so far in the debate, tend to go to difficulties in the process of eating minority rights in all national communities. This amendment, which we have submitted, seems to make it easier for me to make it easier for every law, its implementation, in a specific case, to consume minority rights in every national community. In this regard, I believe, regardless of the reasoning given by the Government, or the RES, without the Constitutional Court's decision, that this provision on the initial basis of the electoral lists is anti-constitutional, I believe that you should adopt in the finalisation of this debate, in this important law, in order to facilitate the implementation of this law and thus facilitate the consumption of the right that this important law gives in the form of a mechanism for all national councils. I'd just like to say one guess for a second. Now let's agree, say, to delete all citizens from the general voter list and give them a three-month deadline to re-enter the voter lists and thus be able to participate in civil and any other elections. It's exactly the same analogy, if you now, national minorities, make us sign up within three months, so 50% plus one down by 20%, you're going to bring all minorities into one very difficult position, no matter what the campaign goes through state television and so on, and I think that the refusal of such an amendment is actually a difficulty in the process of swallowing rights by all national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26914	The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26915	I thank Mr. Judjevic for saying everything the DSS MPs said before using his amendments. Now let us respond to that amendment that was mentioned earlier that members of national minorities have the right to be informed during the elections. I'm going to use an interview where members of the profession, which is called a journalist, who apparently doesn't exist with you, Mr. Minister, in your government, made comments on what this law looks like. One of them says - it is not a good solution, as the state thus continues to interfere in the media sphere, contrary to democratic experiences and valid domestic regulation, public information and broadcasting laws. So why did we give such an amendment? So because in such a way, such media becomes political toys in the hands of political oligarchy behind such formed national councils, and then the information that the members of the national minorities should receive is a big question whether they are true. I'll keep reading this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26916	National MPs Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic together submitted an amendment to Article 44. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Judgjevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26917	The amendment to the next Article 44 continues on the previous amendment and says that after preparing the initial basis of the national minority voter list, the ministry has accessed the education of a special voter list of national minorities. The Ministry shall, by means of written individual notice, inform each citizen who is temporarily entered into the initial basis of a special voter list of one of the national minorities referred to in Article 43(1) and (2) that it is temporarily entered in the initial voter list and national minority. The notice referred to in Article 2(2) shall contain the instructions that a citizen may, in writing, be sent together with a notice within 15 days to ask the Ministry to delete his name from the initial basis of the special electoral list, because it is not declared as a member of that national minority or does not wish to take part in the direct selection of the national council. If a citizen does not request that his name be deleted from the initial base of the national minority's special voter list, he is deemed to have voluntarily agreed to be included in a special voter's list of appropriate national minorities. Therefore, the amendment to Article 44 deletes specific and any desire to enter the constitutional right of citizens to declare or not to declare its nationality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26918	The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26919	What Dr. Rade Veljanovski, professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences and a member of the working group on media laws, says on all this. National councils are legitimate representatives of minority peoples in Serbia, but if not directly state, they are still para-state authorities. The influence of the authorities can also be reflected in the media. Then, the opinion of the Association of Journalists of Serbia. There is no doubt that national councils should not be owners of either printed or electronic media. These tips are often exposures to the political parties of national minorities, especially among the more numerous, such as Hungary, where the dominant influence has one party and minority, so the national council and such a ownership concept become the extended hand of a political party. The Association of Journalists of Serbia will take advantage of all opportunities to draw attention that this is not a good solution. I'm just reading what the representatives of various journalists' associations said about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26920	National MPs Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic together submitted an amendment to Article 45. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Dwarf.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26921	The amendment to Article 45 also consistently implements the standard set out in Article 43 and says that 'at the same time by sending individual notices under Article 44(2) of this Act, the Ministry of Public Information shall inform all citizens of members of the national minorities referred to in Articles 43 and 2 of this Law with the right to vote that the education of the special census of national minorities has begun. The Ministry shall, through means of public notification, invite citizens with voting law, members of the national minorities referred to in Article 43(1) and (2) of this Act to verify whether they are based on the initial basis of the special census of the national minority. Any citizen with voting law, a member of the national minority referred to in Articles 43(1) and (2) of this Act, may request in writing a special form that, within 15 days of the date of notification, he or she be entered in a special electoral list of appropriate national minorities. ''This amendment actually completes what is the amendment to Articles 43 and 44 and speaks of how they are used in this way, in accordance with the Constitution, the data that already exists with the state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26922	The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by Balint Pastor and Arpad Fremond. The government and the International Relations Committee accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 46. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26923	I want to read my opinion further. The proposal that national councils of minorities be the founders of electronic media, news associations and experts unanimously assess as bad. Then, here is the opinion of the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, privatisation must be completed, and the state should assist minority media after privatisation. An independent association of Serbian journalists believes that the position of minority media must not be derivated by privatisation, provided the state finds an adequate condition to help them survive. It is clear that many are not commercial and that they would be difficult to survive on the market, and that is why it is necessary for the state to assist them in accordance with the specific rights of minorities, guaranteed by the Constitution and international standards, but not by the fact that the minority media will remain state-owned. National councils are financed exclusively from the budget. If the new law allows national councils, apart from the printed ones, to establish both radio and TV stations, does this mean that the state will increase the allocation to finance such media and what about other media and existing imbalances on the market between the privatised and those still financed from the budget. That's another opinion in favour of what the DSS MPs are saying. Obviously, I'm not reading, so you're saying that these are people who are prone to the concept that the DSS is proposing here. These are all news associations, professionals and experts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26924	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic submitted together to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )' The People's MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on International Relations have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above the 59th and Article 59th. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above the 60th and the 60th members. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Mr. Shehovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26925	Madam President, in article 60. The Central Election Commission, i.e. its permanent composition, is appointed by the minister and I have submitted to this member an amendment that reads: 'The permanent composition of the CEC consists of three members appointed by the minister, on a proposal common to the national councils. If the national councils, within the deadline set by the minister, do not deliver a joint proposal to the ministry, members of the permanent CEC composition will be appointed by the minister. Members of the permanent composition can only be graduated lawyers, from the ranks of members of national minorities. In my explanation, the amendment was not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution was contrary to the election laws. The Central Election Commission and the general electoral bodies to conduct the elections of national councils have been formed in an analogous way as RIK and OIK are formed. The RIK, as far as I know, is formed by the appointment of the National Assembly on the proposal of parliamentary groups, and by the proportion of MPs in the parliamentary groups. In the same way, the OIK is also appointed by the local assembly, on the proposal of the parliamentary groups, and the composition is such that it is proportionate to the number of local assembly committees. This bill lacks a proposing. I think the logical solution is that national councils will be the ones to propose the permanent composition of the CEC, and that the minister will appoint its composition on the basis of this proposal. I find that logical and that there is nothing contrary to any electoral law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26926	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga, to the 60th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. Here you go, Mr. Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26927	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, my amendment has been conceptually directed in terms of access to resolution by people who will manage the CEC in a professional sense. I therefore suggested that, in addition to members of the three-member CEC council, there are independent secretaries and deputy secretaries appointed by the minister, according to the lawyer's vote, that one activity that starts in a period of four years be given importance on the professional side. Depending on the government's proposal, it is actually another concept. It is proposed that the selection of the commission be proposed by national councils, i.e. national minorities, and here is the concept that the secretary and deputy secretary should be appointed by the minister only to be given the importance of the expert party. So, both the amendments that the Government has proposed and the amendments that I have proposed are quite conceptually directed towards the same goal, so that experts make elections in the best possible way. To that end, I would just like to say that the law is good, that SDP and MPs will support this law in the voting day and that by our proposals, both Mr Šehovic and other MPs and national minorities, it is the intention that this law should only be given a more operational and functional opportunity to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26928	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 61. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 62. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 63. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 64. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 65. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 66. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 67. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Shehovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26929	Article 67 states that the polling post is formed if at least 100 voters are registered on it. I have submitted the amendment that the polling post can be formed and if there are fewer than 100 voters in a particular polling post, if this is about polling stations in hill-mounted areas and in polling stations where the concentration of members of national minorities is small. This is because we will have cases that five-six and ten villages will not be able to form a polling station, and the distance of the polling post from individual villages will be so much that members of national minorities, for various reasons, both because of the ageing households and because of weaker traffic, will not be able to exercise their right and vote for national councils. Also, because of the great dispersion of members of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, I believe that this fact should also be taken into account, in order for members of national minorities and in these cases, not only when it comes to mountainous and mountainous areas, but also where the concentration of members of national minorities is small.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26930	National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 68. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Here you go, Mr. Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26931	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the citizens of Serbia, are helping God. I mentioned the exalted, because at this point he is the only one who can help Serbia and Serbian citizens from these bad laws, starting with the information law, up to the law on national councils. I don't want to get into any controversy, so that Mrs. President doesn't punish me or warn me, because I need every penny to buy my grandson a present, and he prefers to hold a Serb coat of arms. The amendment I have made is that article 68 is changed and reads: "The list of polling stations taking place for national councils is published in the 'SG of the Republic of Serbia' and other means of public information". The amendment requires that a list of polling stations taking place for national councils, in addition to SG, be published by other means, Mr. Minister, of public information. The SRS sees this as a better solution because it allows voters to better inform themselves about carrying out a vote on national councils. The bill provides for each voter, no later than five days before the election day, to notify where he can hold the vote, however, we think it is insufficient. First, this election will take place for the first time. Remember well what the voter interference was, especially when there was a vote in the last election. Secondly, what I said two days ago, not all national minorities live focused... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26932	Time. National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 69 and 69. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 70 and 70. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26933	So, this article discusses who has the right to submit an election list, and says – the electoral lists can be proposed: a group of voters enrolled in a special voter list of the respective national minorities, i.e. organisations and associations of citizens, as well as political organisations of the national minority. So these are election lists promoters. Let me inform you, in towns where national minorities live, you have largely formed and politically active municipal committees of almost all parliamentary parties. So in Dimitrovgrad and Bosilegrad, I will now talk about the Bulgarian national minority, the municipal board of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the DS, and the LDP, and the SPS, and so on and of course there is also a party that has a national minority definition in its name. Please, why don't these municipal committees, or those parties that live and work in these municipalities, can file an election list. Please, there are members of the national minorities in those parties. So this is discrimination. You will tell someone, as Kenan said this morning, that he is not in the interest or at the heart of the Bosniak national minority's position because he is in the LDP, or all those members of the Bulgarian national minority who are on municipal committees in Dimitrovgrad and Bosilegrad, that they are less concerned about their rights and rights as their fellow citizens. So this is absolute discrimination. If you are already introducing that one political party can submit an election list simply because it has a national minority sign in its title, then all parties operating in the territory should be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26934	The People's MP Otto Kishmarton submitted to the 70th Amendment. Here you go, Mr. Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26935	Dear People's MPs, this amendment refers to who has the right to run for election lists. The difference between my proposal and a member of the 70th proposed by the government is that I propose that political parties do not propose to be election lists. Election lists can, in my opinion, propose groups of voters listed in a special voter list of appropriate national minorities, i.e. organisations and associations of citizens of national minorities. As I have said before, national councils of national minorities should be the national councils of all members of the national minority, and this will only happen if the national councils of national minorities are not politically colored, i.e. if politicians do not sit on the council, but experts in the fields of culture, education, information, historians. Such advice will freely co-operate with other political parties, co-operate with the government, as well as the co-operation of national councils of national minorities with major Serbian parties and with the Serbian government is needed because national minorities cannot take care of their own future. The Serbian Progressive Party, as an advanced party, as a multinational party and as a party to tolerance, fully respects the Constitution, as well as all rights that belong to all citizens, as well as national minorities. We in the SNS respect the diversity of our citizens, given that national minorities cannot in Serbia alone take care of themselves. The SNS' goal is to assist all members of the national minorities who respect Serbia as a common state. The goal for all of us is for all Serbian citizens to enjoy the same rights in the future, of course they have the same obligations towards this country. Our common goal is for all members of the national minorities and the majority people to live better. I don't think we'll have any more speakers. To conclude, as long as there is crime, corruption, high unemployment, a poor economic situation, a crisis in the country, there is no progress in both better life for the majority people and for the members of the national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26936	The 70th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26937	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have reached for us from the LDP to the main member of this bill, which is the most disturbing member in the entire concept of this law, which is Article 70. Unlike Mr. Kishmarton, we have put the amendment where we allow political organisations to propose candidates for members of national councils. It means not only to limit the political organisations of national minorities. We are now going back to that story we told you this afternoon about the explanation we received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why this amendment is not accepted. It says -- there is no ratio legion that political organisations that do not have a national minority sign in their name, or the statutes are not defined as political organisations that gather or act in the interest of members of the national minority, propose electoral lists. There is no guarantee that after the elections for national councils, their proposed candidates will be responsible and experienced to access the preservation, promotion and protection of national minorities, if they have to act in accordance with the statutes and programmes of the candidate party, which do not mention the rights of national minorities. I think, first of all, that this member of this law is discriminatory too, especially if he compares himself to this argument that the Government has given us, because the question is raised – what is the interest of the national minorities who, in their omen, do not have national minorities? The question is also raised here – what are the guarantees, which are guaranteed by certain members of national minorities, who are members of parties that do not have a national minority, that they will be responsible for performing the function for which they have been elected, whether they are the functions of committees, MPs, ministers and any other state functions? In this way, you say you are giving one wrong message to citizens of Serbia, citizens of national minorities who voted for other parties, who are not by their name a party of national minorities. This is discrimination. This is also a violation of the Constitution. We are again in the situation that we who were most opposed to this constitution, defend the Constitution from you who wrote it and participated in the adoption of this constitution, because today you, Mr. Minister, said in the morning debate – the political element is natural, as it has been until now, except to say, which is impossible, because it would be a violation of the Constitution – that it is forbidden for political parties to have their candidates for national councils. Then we could agree that in principle the political party will not be able to run, but we would also agree that through groups of citizens of the political party would do so. What do you say? If members of national minorities belonging to civil parties, or all other parties, want to run – we must run tomorrow to register our associations, NGOs with the name of our political parties, so that we can participate in these elections? Imagine the reverse situation, Mr. Minister, that in the electoral laws of the Republic of Serbia there is such a provision for parties of national minorities or a situation that we have special elections for individual segments of social life? Because we have a choice here for national advice dealing with education, culture and information, and it belongs to, as you said, minority autonomy and we welcome it. According to you, only the parties of the national minorities, who have it in their omens, can participate. When, for example, we vote for the state level, then okay, then we can all participate. One question arises – can we, members of national minorities, who belong, call it, to civil parties, perform the responsible function of both the MP and the minister, the board of directors and any state function? According to you, according to the reasons we have received, we would not know or know if we are already spies if we are serving as a member of the National Council. We are good when we are to vote in the elections for the republican, or local elections, but if we are to be candidates for our parties in the elections for national councils, then we are not good, even though we have to sign, and to meet all these other conditions. Another question arises – if we have elections and a special electoral list, direct elections, what will all other parties have here besides national minorities' parties in the Republic of Serbia? Will they call on voters to enlist in that special voter list if they cannot provide their members with a run for election titled their political party? Why would I or any member of the national minority run in the republican elections, in the local elections as a member of the LDP, and in the elections for the national council to go as a member of a group of citizens, since someone has already taken the name of groups of LDP citizens, so that some other group of citizens or some non-governmental organisation would have to, or perhaps, have some fictitious NGO, a citizen association to register, so that I could run for elections? That is the essence, to enable all citizens to vote, which you have explained through a special ballot if they are signed, but we must also ensure that all citizens can be elected. That is the essence of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26938	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26939	Your Honour, and this is one of those questions that was under debate. That's the thing, let's say, measures and boundaries. Can political parties that do not bear the omens of national minorities, other organisations that do not bear the omens or associations of citizens who do not bear national minority omens be able to participate in the achievement of minority self-government? It is like that example of the distinguished Pesic MPs when she said that some national minorities might also be able to run for someone who does not belong to that national minority because they have contributed greatly to the democratisation, promotion and inclusion of certain national minorities. So this is all about the National Minority Corps. There is a way, and these are the electoral lists proposed by groups of citizens, for political parties to achieve promotion or influence. No one has been denied the right to participate in the elections, so no political group, such as any national citizen, will be denied that through the election list a group of citizens, and does not belong to a political party named national minority, participates in the elections. Another fact needs to be respected, the political parties of national minorities are part of the lives of national minorities and they have surprised the political party. The political party lives within the national minority. Of course, it is not the only one, but it represents an institution, representing the shape and form of the life of that national minority. So, having all of these elements, we could say -- or all of the political parties, and then we come to whether political parties that do not bear national minority signs can participate in the achievement of minority self-government, with that argument that I said, or none, and the question is why they could not do so by political parties with a national minority. As discriminatory as it may seem, someone seems, this solution seems to me to be balanced precisely because of the possibility and the fact that we have identified political parties with the designation of national minorities, and on the other hand, it is assured that through the electoral list a group of citizens who participate in the lives and work of other political parties, civil, social democratic orientations, participate in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26940	Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26941	Mr. Minister, the political parties of national minorities, as you said, are indeed part of the lives of one national minority, but other parties are also part of the lives of these national minorities. You have to explain to me what the difference in the meaning of national interests of some national minority where the parties of national minorities who, in their premise, have it better represented the interests of some national minority than any other civil party, any other party, I call a mih of civil but not a party whose name has no national minority name at all. What are the differences? What kind of mechanism is that? Who's to say? It's the only thing that voters can determine, only voters. If we agree that this is determined by voters, then we must allow everyone an equal choice. In one of the previous members, you said that direct elections for members of national councils are applied by members of the Law on selecting Members of Parliaments, etc. Well, that's where the way to fund the election campaign is defined. A group of citizens of the LDP does not have the same way of funding an election campaign as any other party of national minorities. That's the point. So the point is, we don't have the same starting point when we start fighting for our voters' votes. Imagine the situation that at the same time the republican elections and elections for national councils and members of national minorities who do not belong to the parties of national minorities must explain to their voters why they are on a list of republican elections, why they are on the other list of national councils, or if we are talking about culture, education and language, then I will better represent your interests as a group of citizens, and if we talk about economy, diplomacy and the rest, then I will better represent your interests as a member of the party to which I belong. One more thing, I'm going to read you just one part of the LDP program, but I think it's more or less in all political parties' programmes, and you're going to tell me what does not represent the interests of national minorities here. "The Bosnians, Hungarians, Albanians and other members of the national minorities of the LDP want to make it possible, within the frameworks of a society whose equal citizens are affecting their lives to a greater extent and more effectively than today. The process of disintegration of our country will not be accelerated, but finally stopped, because it is the right way for citizens to have a positive impact on their lives, because regardless of ethnic or religious background, regardless of gender or race, political commitment, every born in Serbia, must see and have a better chance than in societies in the environment or anywhere in the world." Doesn't this sentence show that we represent the interests of national minorities? What else do we need to use in our statutes and programs? Then you have to define precisely, to say what attitudes these are, members who show that some party represents the interests of national minorities. This stays only for arbitrary interpretation of you or anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26942	You've wasted your time with an authorized representative. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 71. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26943	Given that my parliamentary group has wasted its scheduled time, I will use this time that is practically for the amendment to respond or replicate to Mr. Secretary. He has taught us all here, so everyone who has parties who actively participate in political life in the environments where national minorities live, has now taught us how to play this member of the bill. In other words, our parties can establish associations of citizens, so under the name of an association of citizens, where it will be mandatory to be a specific of the national minority, we will be able to participate and give the electoral lists. Why are you teaching us how to practically play this member of the law? Why didn't we go there clearly? Why do we have to do this now to get involved in this election? So three people are going to be organized by the party, because now it's enough for three people to register an association of citizens. We recently passed the Association Act. So three, the Citizens' Association, a group of citizens who could thus participate. Why would we do that, when you could make it clear here that all parties involved in political life in the environments where national minorities live can be legislators of the electoral list?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26944	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Chiplet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26945	There was no question about teaching to play something, when that mechanism was legal, for God's sake, a completely legal mechanism. How can you use the right that gives you the law to play the law? So, explaining the previous discussion with the honourable MP, we said we had two very problematic, almost exclusive principles. One is that only one who is bound, named, marked, for a national minority can participate in the realization of something called minority self-government. In that sense, the political party or anything else cannot participate. On the other hand, we have the principle that it is necessary, that we must respect the fact that all citizens belonging to a particular national minority have the right to express their own political position, although we are talking about running here. We did it this way. So we have groups of citizens, we have an electoral list of groups of citizens, it's quite legal for the political party to have an election list through a group of citizens, such as the fact that there are political parties that cannot be established. I was only talking about a group of citizens and I was talking about political parties, I wasn't talking about the association. These are the two mechanisms for which we believe in such a delicate matter in a very good way, functionally two very large contradictions have been reconciled and ensured that the political parties of national minorities and that other political parties, i.e. citizens, members of national minorities, have the electoral lists of their political parties. I don't think there's anything controversial about it, especially the moment these elections are organized, where we're going to see that thing work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26946	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 72. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 73. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 74. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs Pavel Marchok, Đura Muchenski, Lodi Gabor, Petar Kuntic, Maraci Nandor and Tot Tamas submitted to the 74th amendment. The government and the International Relations Committee accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above the 75th and Article 75th members. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 76. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 77. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 78. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 79. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to Article 80. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 81. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 82. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 83. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 84. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 85. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 86. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 87. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Pavel Marchok, Đura Muchenski, Lodi Gabor, Petar Kuntic, Maraci Nandor and Tot Tamas together submitted to the 87th amendment. The government and the International Relations Committee accepted the amendment. He became an integral part of the bill. National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 88 and 88. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 89. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 90. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 91. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above article 92. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 93. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 94. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 95 and 95. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 96 and 96. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. The government and the International Relations Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 97 and 97. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26947	Mr. Minister, it's totally unacceptable this argument to reject my amendment, because first of all, it's not about any of Dont's rules, it's about the ratio, it's clearly a precise mathematical formula, which you later explained in your views. The rule is something that can be changed, a rule in spelling or something else. This is a precise formula that determines how much the mandate belongs to. We, the Serbian Radicals, find it absolutely unacceptable, and therefore this argument that does not stand and does not comply with democratic rules, both in Serbia and everywhere where democratically considered, that mandates are distributed in order of the list, not as we Serbian Radicals have proposed, in order of what is proposed by the list. Namely, I have to explain to you the Boris Tadic case. If you remember, he was elected president of the Republic on the same joint list as the 250th candidate on the list, and was elected MP. Then you're saying that your party is undemocratic, it is actually in many other statements, violations of parliamentary democracy. But, please, you're jumping into your own mouth. You have cases of many others when it comes to coalition lists. When it comes to a political party, such as the SRS, which shows it through clear arches that are being established, it is not the same when you propose and create order. That's one of the circumstances. The second is in this post of election internal process as you define someone. The most important thing is for this person to remain consistent with the one who proposed it, not to go into treason, not to steal mandates, because where these good fortunes come from, and we are the party who handles democratic rules, that some who were 158, 202, and the third and who took the mandates of the SRS never proposed to be candidates on our list.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26948	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment to the title above Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26949	Thank you, and I'm sorry I made a mistake. I really can't keep track anymore. We in Article 99(1) have written an amendment requesting that your first position be changed, and your first position is - if the national minority does not meet the conditions for direct elections under this law, the National Council chooses the National Minority Electoral Assembly. We thought this was unnecessary, and we replaced it with this formula. The National Council shall elect a National Minority Electoral Assembly. Also, in paragraph 2, we asked to delete the second sentence that reads - the decision is made within 15 days of the date on which it is established that members of a particular national minority have failed to meet the conditions for direct elections. In the principle debate we talked about that when you talk about types of choices you predict one that is direct and the other which is obviously less important or the other order and that is so-called. The electoral assembly. We felt that this way should be dominant, first of all because national minorities have the right to the Constitution not to declare their nationality. For us, it is indeed a very important right of every human being. We don't think this concept you've offered here can be democratic. That's why we think we should see what we're proposing to the amendments. What's amazing to me, again we have one type of answer that's exactly the same as all the explanations for all the amendments that the DSS has submitted, and you'll admit they're not the same. However, there are three types of answers. I noticed that your officers especially like it when it comes to the DSS, that's what we get persistently. During his presentation, the minister called for laws that are in force in Croatia and Hungary, so I would like to be answered directly, whether these direct elections exist as a system of elections in these laws and why we are referring to parts of the law when they suit us, and we are not referring to these laws as a whole. I find these laws worthy of respect and that we should look at them as useful and good. That's what we think is important in this law, in Article 99. That's what we suggested with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26950	First Mr. Minister, so Mr. Tomic has two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26951	Dear Members, we cannot talk about a push for democracy, not wanting it to be a direct election. So it's about the fact that at the request of the national minorities, at the request of the democratic principle, and based on our assessment that this is feasible technically, we have foreseen direct elections. There is no single reason, reason, motive, a position that would exist in any democratic society, and to say democratic elections are not necessary, only because there is a danger alleged not to go to democratic elections, a member of the national minority can discover that it belongs to a national minority. All constitutional rights relating to national minorities, I repeat, are not anonymous rights. To use someone, he has to say that I am a member of a particular national minority. All these rights stemming from the electoral assembly are not rights belonging to anonymous people, but to people who say on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia using that freedom, and I cited that member, the first position, that in Serbia everyone is free to express their belonging to a national minority, i.e. to express his national identity. Well, someone, using that freedom, can't get in a position to insult that freedom and insult it. It is at the discretion of every member of the national minority to do so or not to do so. The value of this law is that no one will lose their right unless it is declared to belong to a particular national minority. It's the value of this bill, it was chosen by direct or electoral elections. At the very least, experience from Croatia, Hungary and Romania is actually telling us that the electoral system works in a certain way, but that, in the case of Hungary and Romania, they are also going towards reforming direct elections. What is important is that the environment of the Republic of Serbia is such that the Republic of Serbia is such that citizens in the Republic of Serbia are such that there are no interferences here, neither technical, political, nor human, that direct elections are special electoral lists and that this fear exists and therefore reform in other countries towards direct elections is delicate and problematic. We don't have that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26952	Mr. Zeljko Tomic. You've got two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26953	I want to conclude, as an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, to say that this is one of the most complicated laws that I have had the opportunity to read, that it will be terribly difficult to implement and that we will draw the line, hopefully, in a year or two days, so we will have the opportunity to discuss this law and enforce the law. As far as this amendment is concerned, we have also said that we are exclusively for the national minority electoral assembly, i.e. the electoral method of choice. You, in your explanation, say why you refuse that amendment. Because there can be direct elections, which is in line with European and democratic standards or indirectly through the electoral assembly. Why didn't the sentence continue - according to what. In a principle debate in America, President Obama was elected in an electrical way, though in a different way, but it's called an electric, as well as a congressman, as everyone else. You could have written in accordance with American and democratic standards. I don't know why there's nothing behind the electoral way of choosing, and behind it, my God, European and democratic. All in all, I am defeated by the general politicization of national councils, now the doors to this politicisation are wide open. As you said yourself, the national minorities through these elections will express their political stance. Their political stance by the national minority is realised in the general democratic elections, by the political functioning of their parties, by political action within other parties, which Mr Hajdarevic spoke tirelessly today. The government of Vojislav Kostunica completely emancipated, after all, and established national councils, and in the Constitution at all, human and minority rights issues have devoted one-third of the text, but this is not what we wanted to happen. Unfortunately, we'll have to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26954	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on International Relations have submitted an amendment to Article 99, which the government has accepted. National MPs Pavel Marchok, Đuro Muchenski, Lodi Gabor, Petar Kuntić, Maraci Nandor and Tot Tamas submitted to the 100th amendment. The government and the International Relations Committee accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The 100th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. The government and the International Relations Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Mr Miletic Mihajlovic, member of 101, withdrew the amendment during the day. National MPs Pavel Marchok, Đura Muchenski, Lodi Gabor, Petar Kuntic, Marac Nandor and Tot Tamas submitted together to the 101st amendment. The government and the International Relations Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Pavel Marchok, Đura Muchenski, Lodi Gabor, Petar Kuntic, Marac Nandor and Tot Tamas. The government and the International Relations Committee accepted the amendment, and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic to article 104. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 109th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26955	I'm going to speak to the Minister personally because he came to me when I spoke about the amendment to Article 99, convincing me what democracy is. I can't talk about it, because we can't talk about democracy, dear Mr. Minister, and that MPs from parliament are being driven like dogs off the street, and that was in this assembly thanks to you. We can't talk about democracy, Mr. Minister, that you're closing the media, and that's not democracy either, that's the least democracy. We can't talk about democracy, Mr. Minister, if the MPs in this assembly run across the law as if someone here obliges us to cross in 10 seconds I don't know how many. Unfortunately, in this country everything you say is democracy is not democracy, and what I have told you about the way you choose is not democracy and it is not only democracy. Democracy is that you don't scare people. Democracy is to provide people with basic human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26956	Members of the 112s were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Mrs. Banovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26957	Article 114 refers to funding, i.e. the funding provided for in Article 1 of this Article, which is provided in the RS budget, so that 30% is allocated in equal amounts to all registered national councils, and the rest of the funds, and 70%, respectively, are allocated to the number of members of a particular minority. Our amendment is to propose that this part that is equally divided by all existing national councils is increased from 30% to 40%, and that 60% is allocated to the corresponding number of national minorities. Mr. Minister, at that point you went out, although you're a really good proposing representative, because you've been here all day, when we talked about funding, it was one member. Your colleague couldn't answer, because she has no right to address the Assembly, but you did, did you make any elaborates, an estimate, how much funding it would cost, how much these direct elections would cost, given that 16 national councils would form. There's so many of them now. Maybe there'll be another one. Did you run any tests on how much that would cost?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26958	The 114th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26959	As it has already been heard, Article 114 speaks about how the national councils are financed and we commended it in the principle debate when we talked about the proposal for this law. We have given one amendment which in the last position of Article 114 deletes this - or national minorities whose language in official use on the territory of the unit of local self-government. We did this because in the previous part of this sentence it is said: The assets of Article 1, which are provided in the budget of the unit of local self-government, are allocated in accordance with the decision of the competent authority of the unit of local self-government, national councils representing national minorities that reach at least 10% of the population of local self-government. In order for a national minority's language to be officially used in local self-government, it is necessary under the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Protection of National Minorities and Ethnic Communities to speak a minimum of 15% of the population in the local self-government. We think it's unnecessary to stand and if we take a smaller percentage, and that's 10%, so this argument is really unnecessary. It seems to me that whoever wrote this argument did not read the explanation of our amendment and did not understand what we wanted to say with this amendment because it is unnecessary to stand – in the official use of the local self-government unit or if there are 10% of the population. That's less than 15% of the stairs, so we've suggested erasing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26960	Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26961	One brief explanation, that 10% is actually a norm that is based on data that we have protection of what's called acquired law. It can happen, and it happens that in certain local self-governments, the percentage falls below 15% and loses the right to use the language and the letter officially, but with these 10% we've protected it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26962	Mr Miletic Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26963	As regards Article 114, on behalf of the SPS – JS MP, I do not have anything special to add, but when it was an earlier discussion of an earlier member who can be associated with this, we are really coming to the fact that at certain times there may be a conflict of interest of members of the National Council of Minorities, and especially if it is the president of the National Minority Council, which, by this law, may also be the finance minister. Or, for example, to bring it down, it'll probably be harder to happen, but it's quite possible for the president to also be president of a municipality. We currently have the presidents of municipalities who are presidents of the National Council and then the relevant authority of local self-government, or the assembly of municipalities, allocate funds for national councils. It is known who proposes the budget, who has the budget, and at the same time the same person is president of the National Council. I think that all the other laws that we have passed in the previous period and that are heading towards the demarcation of functions and the separation of functions, which is in line with European standards, have to apply this principle here and we will have here persons who will be in dual function and in direct conflict of interest, which will endanger the legality in the functioning of organs, both national councils and those where these same persons will be in office.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26964	Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26965	Short replica. Mr. Minister, with this amendment, we've predicted exactly what you just said, that it remains at least 10%, nothing more, that it doesn't stand "and official use of language", just at least 10% or delete itself. What you said, that's what we predicted with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26966	The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic to article 114. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 115 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Donka Banovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new chapter 7a and a new member of 120a be added after article 120a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26967	This amendment is related to the amendment to Article 1, where we have proposed that this law regulate the position of the Council of the Republic of Serbia for national minorities, so that the whole chapter treats the position of the National Minorities Council. In order to preserve, improve and protect national, ethnic, religious, linguistic and cultural specificities of members of national minorities and to establish their rights, a council of the Republic of Serbia for national minorities is established. Through the following amendments, it is further clarified. The minister when he responded to the amendment to Article 1 also said there might be a need to pass a special law that would regulate the position of the council. The position of this council is completely unsettled. We are deeply convinced that this advice is also part of the entire system and that it should not be changed whenever the Government changes that a new decision or regulation on the formation of a council is made.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26968	National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment suggesting that Article 120b be added after article 120b. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Slobodan Samardzic together submitted an amendment suggesting that Article 120v be added after article 120v. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Zoran Nikolic and Svetlana Stojanovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that Article 120g be added after article 120h. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted an amendment suggesting that Article 120d be added after article 120d. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zivkov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26969	I have submitted an amendment to Article 122. Penalties have been increased. I suggest they increase by misusing the use of special i.e. a special polling list and for the use of data from the polling list. For example these days, Mr. Minister, many addresses of Serbian citizens are being notified that a number of citizens are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia on the day of their application for free action. How is that possible? In this case, a list of citizens of the Republic of Serbia how can you convince us that abuse of a special voter list will not happen? There will be a lot of SRS right now trying to explain to you today to convince you to withdraw this law for many reasons, because constitutional solutions are far better, what the Constitution and the law on minorities offer, and that there will be no politicised advice of national minorities you cannot convince us. You've been trying all day to do this because many of the political parties that belong to national minorities participated in the creation of this law on the council of national minorities. On the case of your ministry, Mr. Minister, why don't you use the political or programming solutions of other parties, which are much better than what you offer from your political option, and you are elected in this home and you are the minister of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, just on this data and on this case that you're using the Ministry to convince, to show and to solve the problems of your political conviction and your problem, I think it's pretty clear in that case that there will be both politicised and national minority advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26970	Members of the 122nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Kenan Hajdarevic and Judita Popovic. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26971	With this Article 122, we have provided for the tightening of sanctions related to the abuse of a special electoral list and we have proposed this for two reasons. The first reason is, as we heard in today's debate when the debate was in principle, because of the fears of individual members of the national minorities to be included in the special voter list. We think that any abuse of that data must be far more severed than anticipated, 10,000 to 30,000 dinars, and thus we give a message to members of the national minorities that we will not allow these data from the special polling list to be misused. I understand from the explanation that this is in line with the Law on Violations and the prescribed sanctions of the electoral law, and as you once said, this is a special law. If a special law is in the sense of defining certain provisions, perhaps this criminal provision should have been a little sharper. In the end, I will take the opportunity, since this is the last amendment of the LDP parliamentary group, to commend your ministry's efforts to write this law, and by getting this law at all, in the assembly procedure and in the voting day, regardless of our amendments, to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26972	Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 127 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26973	I have submitted an amendment to Article 127 which essentially does not change the solution, because it is already contained in Article 126, where it is a responsibility or a liability of the responsible person for this if no notification is made for the amendments to the Statute within 30 days. You are a member of 126, provided responsibility, but for the national council of Article 127, for the responsible person in Article 126. I have made an amendment precisely for the reason I point to your inconsistencies, insolence or different approaches from members to members or parts of the law. Somewhere you called this responsibility for failing to notify the Ministry of Amendments and Supplements to Article 5, in the preceding article you define what this offence looks like, to do the same thing with Article 119(2) as a violation, which simply seemed like a small non-serious toy from someone who boasted and seriously approached this topic. Never the extra head hurts. However, you cannot expect us to praise a law in which you once state what the attitude is, for which you bear a criminal liability, and in the other case, such a hoot, you only state - Article 5(3). You, with such a renaissance, Mr. Minister, and your associates, are expected to have the right to measure the words and to define the criminal responsibility and for the responsible person and for the national council itself, which these two members regulate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26974	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on International Relations, submitted an amendment to Article 128. The government has accepted this amendment. Member of the 129th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Amendment to which a new Article 136a is added after Article 136a. The People's MP, Munir Poturak, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 137th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Mr. Chiplet, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26975	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must express to you the deep joy and happiness that we have finally had this law on the agenda, and then, at the same time, and the satisfaction and joy that we have searched this law in such a detailed and quality atmosphere, that we have both had collegiate, and friendly and politically correct dialogue. What makes me most of all happy is the fact that, based on this debate, I am deeply convinced that there are enough will and enough votes in this House that he, as in the examples of other countries in the region when it comes to the laws on human and minority rights, is adopted not only by a half-dominated majority, but it seems to me that this Parliament has the capacity to adopt it with a more qualified, two-thirds majority. Because this law, this bill carries more quality, and this parliament has this kind of will and capacity to, in realising one serious and important freedom, guaranteed in the Constitution, show that Serbia is a leader in the region when it comes to human and minority rights. In any case, I thank you and once again express my hope and confidence, which I felt in this House today, that this law will be passed by qualified majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-28-0.u26976	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. I really thank Mr. Minister and his associates for their extremely correct debate and active participation, your honourable MPs, too. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
