ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the Parliament units of the electronic system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Aleksandra Ilic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Tuesday, February 10, 2009, so within a short period of time, as set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft acts in a given agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which was convened at the request of 122 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the holding of the Fourth Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted 129 MPs, on 6 February 2009. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Dr Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I'd like to inform you that no one has checked in by this time. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single review of the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA Does a representative of the promoter, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji want a word? (Yes) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13576	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is too serious a debate to allow ourselves the irresponsible behavior that marked the preparation of today's session. If someone wanted effective work in this House, it's LDP. If someone contributed to the efficiency of Parliament's work, then the LDP, through its relationship with the Assembly, and through the proposals put forward to overcome the problems that followed the work of the Serbian Parliament. The way you prepared this session and in which you intend to start it will result in a new chaos, instead of an existing chaos. I believe that this is not in the interest of, first, of our society, and then of the majority in this assembly, I mean not the ruling majority, but most MPs. That is why I would suggest, President, that you extend the debate and allow for serious talks, in order to prepare for a vote that would lead to more order than we currently have. I suggest that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you schedule consultations of the heads of Parliament clubs, which you have not done, and I warn you that you will be faced with all the shortcomings of an ad hoc amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure, which is not being resolved unless you have a solution to create a new mess. Therefore, in accordance with Article 91. Rules of Procedure, I suggest you, first of all, extend the debate on this item of the agenda, so that MPs will be familiar with the consequences of the decision they make, while at the same time holding consultations with the heads of Parliament's clubs, in order to find in serious discussions the most acceptable model that would unblock Parliament's work and allow us to do the job that we are here for.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13577	If the heads of all parliamentary groups agree to extend the time, I would be willing to accept it, please see, since it is not according to the Rules of Procedure, but if we agree and when we agree, if possible. I accept this proposal and ask the heads of parliament to hold a brief consultation of 10 minutes. I'm setting a 10-minute break. [[After break – 10.35]] Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that at the consultations, the heads of the parliamentary groups and I, to say only that there were no representatives of the SRS, we have accepted Mr Jovanovic's proposal to propose to the Assembly that the time of the debate be extended double, but this must be made clear by the Assembly. Please take your seats so we can plead and vote. Please perform an I.D. on your presence in the O.R., quorum. We have a quorum to love. We're going to vote. We move on, we're not 126, and it takes so long to vote this proposal. Mrs. Hope Kolundzija has a word, as a representative of the motionary. Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mrs. Kolundžija.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you are, as president of the National Assembly, under the current Rules of Procedure, obliged to take care of the legality of the work of the National Assembly and the application of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In this agreed break in the work of the National Assembly, we received something called the Report of the Administrative Committee. It says this: "Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly. Administrative Board No. 2802-349/09, February 10th 2009, Belgrade. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The administrative board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... "--I ask you to take care of the language in which the report was written, "at a session held on 10 February 2009, the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by a group of 129 MPs. In accordance with Article 79. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee submits the following report. "In signature, President Nenad Konstantinovic. Article 79(1) reads this: The Committee shall decide, by majority, the votes of the members present at the session attended by most of the members of the Committee. Article 80 - The minutes shall be drawn up on the Committee's session. The minutes shall include the names of the present and absent members of the Committee and the names of the other participants of the sitting, oral and written proposals, the views of the Committee, the results of each vote, each opinion assigned, as well as the rapporteurs designated by the Committee. Stenographic notes or magnetic records shall be kept at the session of the Legislative Committee, as well as at meetings of other committees, if requested by the Committee. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, a session of the Administrative Committee has begun, but it is not finished. The session hasn't been held. It says here that the session was held. If it is written that the session has been held, it has begun, had some of its course and had been completed and that, after the meeting of the Administrative Board, the National Assembly is informed of what has been done at the session of the Administrative Committee. The session just started, but it's not over. It is not finished because the ruling coalition has again, as a node, stuck its head in the sand and refused to discuss, among other things, the 9th item of the agenda – Considering the resignations of three former SRS MPs, with an explanation that the session of the National Assembly begins. People's MPs from the SRS, who are members of the Administrative Committee, gave a very constructive and exceeded proposal to postpone the start of the session of the National Assembly for an hour until the session of the Administrative Committee is completed. (President: Time. I'm sorry. This is an extremely important question. (President: Finish it, I understand. ) Therefore, the session of the Administrative Committee began with more than 10 minutes late. On the first item of the agenda, Mrs. Nada Kolundji came forward, that's her legitimate right, I don't mind, and then she put out the ruling coalition's position that the SRS is guilty and that today is Tuesday, that we are the ones blocking the work of the Assembly, that what it says... (President: Mr. Martinovic, you will have to bring the end. ) Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the important question is... (President: You've been talking for almost four minutes.) We've got one piece of paper that's a fake. The session hasn't been held.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13580	Let me, I understand, let me plead, let me answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13581	All right, but I'll get back to you, 'cause I didn't finish my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13582	Gentlemen, I have been informed that the session of the Administrative Committee has been launched, that due to the beginning of this session and participation, and in giving the quorum and in the explanation, it will be interrupted and it will continue. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Martinovic answered for the word, but he can't do it again. Mr. Todorovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 27, where it is said that the chairman of the House of Representatives on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is good for Serbian citizens to see what is happening in the Serbian Parliament. It is good to understand at last who they have as representatives, those who are called Democrats, or the Democratic Party, or the ruling majority. That's how those little cheaters behave at fairs, wanting to fool Serbian citizens, by not choosing funds. Don't think you'll do any harm to the SRS. You're petty squishy. You think that's good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13584	Mr. Todorovic, will you use appropriate words for fellow Members, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13585	Don't count me in on this time. Tell me what's in the word "sychardgy" rude? It's a person who wants to sew something and doesn't belong to it, it's used by a variety of means. I don't need to explain it to you. We've had our chance, I've heard directly from the head of the ZES, Mrs. Hope Kolundzija, when we discuss "Politics", that we, as MPs of the opposition, will be able to submit amendments to the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, and all in the spirit of tolerance and respect for the democratic procedure, which you, Mrs. Kolundzhija, and I hope your party, are in favour. Then you applied article 160 -- a united debate, and made it impossible for MPs to submit amendments, and thus to try to correct this proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the full introduction of dictatorship into the Serbian Parliament. Not only that, at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, Committee President Nenad Konstantinovic also questioned the question – why did you not submit the amendments? This speaks of your character, because you need to read Article 160, which says – when a united, unique debate, there is no possibility of submitting amendments; it speaks of you all the time. You want all the problems you've created in this country to eliminate by trying to quell the opposition. I'm telling you, it's going to come back to you, just like all those who tried to introduce dictatorship in the same way. Thank you and forgive the overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13586	I'd like to say that by this moment, about 20 amendments to the LDP, "Go, Serbia", ZES have arrived. Therefore, MPs who had the will and the desire to submit amendments had the opportunity. Mr. Aligrudic, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13587	According to Article 27, President. I thought what you did was only reserved for our dear colleague Gordana Komic, with whom we have had so many discussions over the past few months about how to conduct the session. You cannot know in advance why the People's Messenger has come forward for a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, until you give him your word and hear what is the basis of his report. Even if you knew, you want to apply in advance the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that you have proposed here, even though they have not yet been voted. Is that what you're doing? Is that the manner in which we enter? It is something that has been watching over the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for several days, the spirit of intolerance, the potential terror that you want to seduce and misrepresent opposition parliamentary groups, first of all, those smaller ones, that you don't think you need to communicate with them about anything. When you changed the presidents of the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Finance, you did not call, Madam President of the National Assembly, any consultation of the heads of Parliament groups, although those positions in the National Assembly had to be the result of general consensus, or agreement between the authorities and the opposition. You have tolerated the separate dialogues between parliamentary groups in this people's assembly, so you can negotiate something that you think is a threat to the work of the National Assembly, so you haven't agreed on. You violated the principle of general consensus on important matters and then so on it continued to work. In this way you usurped the work of the National Assembly, making proposals for the election of RIK and delegations in parliamentary parliaments, knowing in advance what the problem might be. Then you didn't solve that problem. You've tried the voting tactics after you've exhausted them. It has succeeded and you have come up with a brilliant idea, despite the agreement that one working group of this assembly, which is multi-party, also contains opposition and power within itself, is working on amendments to the Rules of Procedure, in order to agree with the Constitution and to remove anachronous provisions of this Rules of Procedure, of outdated provisions, because it once belonged to a federal unit and not to a special state, you have decided to move, allegedly, to unplug the work of Parliament, to exorcise the opposition, so that you have not consulted anyone, you have called for a quick session, you have made your proposals to amend certain members of the Rules of Procedure, then you yourself have made amendments to certain provisions that you have proposed, received some amendments from some of the MPs. This morning, at 10 o'clock, you called for a consultation to discuss what? We agreed upstairs to extend the time, and then half of the ruling coalition's MPs wouldn't put in the cards and give the quorum. What did you think? What did you think you were doing? This behavior doesn't make sense. If this continues, and apparently will, I fear that what has been in Parliament so far, when it comes to tensions and atmosphere, will only be made worse. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13588	Mr Aligrudic, I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, because article 100 says - to the MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives a word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker. Mr. Martinovic could not have been a previous and repeat speaker, only if he had two personalities, and the man does not have two personalities. Do you understand? Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13589	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we expected that in this year we would start with one good co-operation, because we of the opposition helped make your unscheduled government pass through the budget, however, we accepted all of your differences, all of your disagreements, to do something for Serbia, to speed up some of the processes, to pass laws. I repeat, you have no law, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, waiting to be in this session. The government can't agree on anything. You're in trouble with the Duke's statutes. You don't know what you're going to do or where you're going. You want to quickly, completely, kill democracy, change the Rules of Procedure, like this to a piece, adapt what you need, so that you can somehow do some of your stories, which you've been telling for days. You're telling us, or your bosses, that 200 laws are going to be passed this year. Well, it's the law a day. Are you out of your mind? What are you talking about? You want us to be a machine in your industrial production, in your major economic procedures and ventures. You want us to sit here and applaud, admire your Minister Dinkic's brilliant ideas. He solves everything, he solves an important problem every day. He solved Bor, solved the flag, solved the action problems, everything possible. That's not gonna happen. Do you guys see this doesn't lead to anything? You see where you're taking us, you're taking Serbia into an ambis that's going to be difficult to get out of, and that's why we want to stop you, to reason with you, not to make big mistakes, because when you make mistakes, it's gonna be hard to get back to that initial state. You sell foreign reserves, you can't say who buys two billion euros. Who bought two billion euros in foreign exchange reserves? You can't tell me where the two billion-euro currency reserves are. How do these dinars go? What are they into? Was it here in Parliament or not, is that in the budget, where is it? You're just smiling, offering Shumadi an office in Brussels. How can you not be ashamed? What office in Brussels?- I'm sorry. What are we gonna do in Brussels in that office? You want to destroy Serbia completely. You're forcing us into obstruction, you're forcing us to boycott Parliament, you're forcing us to stop those crazy ideas of yours that you're starting to place. Gentlemen, he can't do what you're up to. You're gonna have a lot of problems. (President: Time. Don't play with Serbia. This isn't your private property so you can do whatever you want with it. Come to your senses! Take it, go public, crown Boris. Do you want him to be king, king, whatever you want? Can't, people, you want to put out parliamentaryism in Serbia. (President: Will you bring the end, please? You want to kill this Parliament, clearly. It can't, we won't give, we'll stand up to every means to keep it from being realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13590	I would like to inform you that the SRS will represent MP Aleksandar Martinovic at this point, and SPS-JS – Milisav Petronijevic. Mr. Obradovic has the word, so Mr. Konstantinovic, and Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13591	Thank you, Madam President. I'm advocating a violation of articles 146 and 147 of this Rules of Procedure. In fact, Article 145 gives the right to submit amendments, and Article 146 says the amendments are addressed to the proposing, MPs, committees and the Government, if necessary. Article 147. The Rules of Procedure say that the legislator, the committee responsible and the government are obliged to consider amendments before the session, to declare afterwards and to inform the National Assembly what they have decided. As a MP, I don't know about the other colleagues, I haven't received any amendments yet, and you, just now one of your colleagues advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, said that a large number of amendments have been submitted and that there are even amendments to the ruling coalition. Since a joint single search is being conducted, it is very important that we get these amendments and see how they change the proposal. Please deliver those amendments to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13592	Mr. Obradovic, of course you'll get the amendments, but I'd like to tell you that some of the amendments, i.e. a large number of amendments, are filed in five to ten. So it takes time. One amendment that's now in my hand has been filed at exactly 10 o'clock. It just takes time to multiply and you'll get them soon. The moment the amendments arrive, the multiplication process begins. That was ten o'clock. As you can see, we're still not discussing the amendments, and it doesn't essentially disrupt the work. You will be informed of the amendments in due time. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Konstantinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13593	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the Honored President of Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 103, which says MPs should discuss the points on the agenda. We are again attending the abuse of the rights of MPs to advertise some injury and in many exhibitions, which I think are malicious, is being led astray by the public and MPs in the National Assembly. First, Article 160. The Rules of Procedure say that the draft Rules of Procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions or conclusions may be submitted by the legislator in writing, with an explanation, and that this proposal is previously submitted to the MPs and open a single search. Just because there's a single search doesn't mean that amendments can't be submitted. The deadline for the amendment was today, up to 10 o'clock, and those who wanted to submit the amendments, they did. We had the case, since both the resolutions and the confirmation of the agreement in the same status as the Rules of Procedure, when it was a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that the SRS had submitted an amendment, there was a single search and that amendment was adopted, so you know that it is possible to submit amendments in this case. I would ask that we move to a debate on the points on the agenda, given that we have the conditions to discuss it, and the committee responsible, the Administrative Board, will discuss all amendments so far when the professional service multiplys them to all MPs. We're not arguing because there's still no multiple material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13594	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word, then Mr. Jovanovic, and Mr. Aligrudic, it was the order of the announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13595	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Article 104, and what Mr Nenad Konstantinovic said best confirms what I said when I first went out for the pay phone. This is just the form through which you want to fool the citizens of Serbia, allegedly, you're giving the opportunity, according to that old fox and birth bass that each other called for lunch, but it's known to have nothing. That's right with this new rules of procedure. First of all, Mr. Konstantinovic, for some I might, let's say, suspect that they are capable of bringing things into a relationship. The Rules of Procedure, according to its function, in the way it should be adopted, implies the largest consensus or agreement of all MPs in the Serbian Parliament, counting both the position and the opposition. You are aware that if you do it in a different way, you may have problems, which is why you proposed Article 160, because the debate will be united. So within these five hours that we have, we will discuss both one amendment and 500 amendments and you, in advance, have made it impossible for the opposition MPs to submit the amendments. What did you need here? You need form, only form, nothing else, as Boris Tadic established this committee for talks with Serbia's Television. Have you seen any of the opposition MPs there? They were gone. Even the president of the ZES Parliament Club didn't come, he doesn't think it's necessary. But that's what you want to sell Serbian citizens a horn for a candle. We don't agree to that. We want to fully strip the way you work, and that's just political usefulness. If this is useful to you today, as our people say, for a kilo of meat you are able to kill the ox, you are not interested in, at all, absolutely not interested. That's what this Rules of Procedure shows. You are interrupting a session of the Committee, reportedly, to begin the Serbian Parliament, and you have not discussed any amendments. Imagine 500 amendments. Who are you kidding? You can't fool yourself either, because it's an undeniable fact. You have no intention of making a deal. This is the conduct of most terror, and nothing more. If you wanted to make a deal, you had opportunities. (President: Time. I'm done. When you accept this – that the terror of the majority will not achieve your goals, you can do it now, but it will break your head, you will take the only possible path, which is that, without taking care of your political usefulness, sit down and agree. One more thing, you have to make sure you honor the arrangements. There's no deal with con men anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13596	It is quite clear that MPs know, but for the sake of the public, I must read the views of Articles 1 and 2 160: "The proposal for a Rules of Procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions or conclusions can be submitted by the legislator in writing, with an explanation. The proposal for an act referred to in Article 1 shall be previously submitted to the Members of Parliament and shall be open to a single search." So we're acting in accordance with Article 160 and there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13597	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, did not start this session well today, but let's do everything we can to at least end up in as normal a way as possible. This is an appeal, first of all, to you, Madam President. Let us talk normally. Now we don't even have the elemental prerequisites for that kind of thing. It is true that a single search allows for the unification of discussions in principle and detail, but what is the point of a single search if MPs have not received our amendments, and before that, the committee in charge has not made its statement on these amendments? Article 147 is very clear, Madam President: "The legislator, the committees responsible and the government are obliged to consider amendments before the National Assembly session", not to quote further. We've only got amendments to the ruling coalition. It is now in front of the MPs, which speaks enough about the seriousness of the promoter. So well worked on the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure that those who wrote it now propose seven or eight amendments to which the text is corrected. Let's not point at that. Let's say it's another problem we have to solve together. We want to finish this session so that in the next working day between us there is a more normal atmosphere, but not because we would be more comfortable, but that the result of our work would be more concrete and efficient. In the light of this initiative, efficiency is mentioned as a key motivation. If we want efficiency, then we have to give it to the maximum to make it possible. It is pointless to tell MPs about our amendments if they do not have them in front of them, unless the committee of directors has spoken of it. It is true that there has been no time, but we are in an extraordinary session and amendments are submitted until the beginning of the debate. As a result, some amendments have been submitted practically at 10 o'clock, but they are also amendments to the ruling coalition. The ruling coalition submitted amendments at 9.45. So it's not obstruction, say, LDP, you did the same thing. We have five hours of debate, in those five hours LDP has 13 minutes, and we have submitted eight fundamental amendments, most of which I believe will accept almost everything. I think we will find it difficult to agree on a single amendment, because it is, in fact, the essence and it is the right answer to the question of Parliament's efficiency, but obviously there are no conditions for such a thing now. About the others, I think we'll get along just fine. We don't have time to explain these amendments. Thirteen minutes for seven amendments. We can't even read them. That's what this is about. What's going to be the consequence of that? Same situation we were in the last few minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13598	He has the word Mr. Aligrudic. The right of MPs to submit amendments by 10 o'clock, that right has been used. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The amendments will, right now, be shared by the Committee, reviewing all amendments and it will not affect the essential course of work, nor will it interfere with the quality of work. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13599	Just these words you have now spoken, you have spoken them before, after Mr. Radojko Obradovic, Vice-President of the Assembly, are the reason for my announcement. I think that's how you act on your own, and it's the opposite of Article 27. Rules of Procedure, at the same time in violation of Rule 147. Rules of Procedure. You cannot say that failure to amend MPs during a single search does not disrupt that search and that it does not interfere. When we have a search in particular, so far you have, personally, on several occasions, insisted that the search not begin until all amendments are delivered and until the committees of the amendment are discussed. That's totally logical. What Mr. Jovanovic just said, I fully support. How can we conduct a unique search, therefore, both in principle and in particular, if we get material during the search, so that during the search, we can get to know him? It is the same thing that hastened the opposition that you have done in the previous days, so that you have quickly, eager terror over the minority, submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, left us with the weekend to entertain it and come before the final act today, with a hint that we will be revoted and with the fear brought by Mrs. Hope Kolundji at the consultations with me this morning, saying – I do not know what they will do, whether they may be obstructing and if we extend time to ten hours. That's what you're interested in. If you're doing something quick, I can understand it. If you're doing something rash and breaking some basic democratic principles and principles, it's not good for anyone here. How do you propose we engage in a debate about your amendments, which you submitted at 9.45, which, as head of the DSS Parliamentary Group, for objective reasons, I have not even been able to read yet, and I am not because our material is now shared? If I had even seen the preliminary material your clerk gave me in front of the room 1 at 10.40, I wouldn't have been able to read it until this moment, because I have to intervene because of your injuries to the Rules of Procedure, because I have to take care of every word spoken for by this speaker, by any MP, because there's some kind of debate going on, regardless of the fact that there hasn't been a single search of the motion itself. How do you think we work without a proper break, so these amendments, which have been submitted, can be considered? Those who have been through these amendments in my parliamentary club over the past 15 minutes have drawn attention to me that the solutions in them are completely the opposite of the solutions that you have made in the motion for a decision, that they are completely different solutions. If we've had two days to think about it and grab our heads for the stupidity you wrote, which, believe me, is what we're going to show and prove later, really stupid, then how do you expect this new nonsense, which you've submitted, to be digested in 15 minutes? (President: Time. You should be ashamed, and you've cut your time short.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13600	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I already explained. Here you go, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13601	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 101st and 103rd. You're a bad actress, there's no need to act like I said it, and you're a bad interpreter of what I said. I want to say something that I think is very important to the citizens of Serbia. We opened this session and opened this debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. None of the rules of the Rules of Procedure have been violated. We understand the need for all MPs to receive amendments when a single search is made. That is why I propose that a break be set until amendments to this agenda have been made to all MPs who have been submitted to this item. I just want it to be known that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, but that we fully respect the argument that it is, however, better to discuss in a unique search if MPs have amendments. According to the information we have now checked, all amendments have been processed and released in the procedure and the chairman of the Administrative Committee will schedule a session of the Committee to consider them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13602	Thank you. If we had started, essentially, a debate, I would have certainly appreciated, Mrs. Kolundjia, your suggestion. It's just that it's still advertising the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Martinovic, and then there'll be a break. And you've called before? Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic called before you did. Replica, no, no, you don't have a word, Mrs. Pop-Lazic has a word. Miloš Aligrudić, from the place: Why? ) Because the replica goes after the Rules of Procedure, after the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Then you have the advantage, go ahead. I'm sorry, Mrs. Pop-Lazic is replacing the head of the Parliament Group and has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13603	Dear fellow Members of the People, Madam President, I would first of all like to address you. I think you've been brought into a very awkward situation. You were supposed to schedule this session, it was done hastily. I doubt that there was expected to be an amendment, and what is least expected of this parliament, of those who are preparing the agenda, is that the session is scheduled at the time when it can really begin. So, knowing the situation, you could schedule a session in 12 hours, wait for the amendments to arrive by 10 o'clock, for the Administrative Board to do its job from 10 to 12 o'clock, so MPs would know the contents of these amendments, because if they come out to talk in a single review of the Rules of Procedure's proposal, they must also talk about the amendments themselves. This is how you make it impossible. You're you, I don't mean you personally, because you're doing what the parliamentary majority is asking of you. You've put Parliament in a situation where we have no time to waste for two or three hours warning you of something that is essential, it seems to me, democracy, or mutual understanding. How will the MPs be prepared to talk about something they haven't seen, because it's not enough that we've now won on the table of this amendment? We need to look at them, see what the MPs are looking for, look back at that, and then have a constructive discussion. You should've really had that in mind, both you and Mr. Konstantinovic and Mrs. Kolundžija, and schedule this session at the appropriate time, at 12 o'clock. You wouldn't have any problems. This is how we brought the entire parliament into an unserious situation, and then, in front of the press, you'll all be talking about how much a working day costs – and MPs report to the Rules of Procedure, and we're wasting our time. And who brought us into being unprepared to work on this agenda today? Now the amendments are being shared, while I'm behind this pay phone. Please, in the future, I don't know what you're going to do now, but in the future, don't let them seduce you in this way, bring yourself and the people's MPs, I mean all 250, get in this room unprepared and then we're wasting our time talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13604	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, you know very well that the session always started at 10 o'clock, that the amendments were divided when the session began. This is today, obviously, a special problem, as well as the reason it explains to viewers, which is why this agenda item was necessary. We'll continue at 12 o'clock. (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. 12 o'clock, with you, we begin. [[After break at 12.05.]] If no notification has been received by the members of the Administrative Board, the Management Board shall be convened. Mr. Nikolic has reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13606	Dear People's MPs, given the new circumstances, that the proposer surprised us with the shorter deadline when he proposed these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, as well as the content of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which in many segments is likely to be contrary to the Constitution, that is to say, it must be against the Constitution, we faced another surprise today, which is that a number of amendments have been submitted to this Rules of Procedure have been submitted. These amendments come from a coalition, or ruling majority, which has also proposed these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which speaks about the state of the coalition and how deeply you have thought about this Rules of Procedure, in the sense that it is truly in the function of more efficient work in Parliament. I'm going to have to remind you of one business obligation, one fact, and I'm going to read Article 147. The Rules of Procedure, which it says, the legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to consider, before the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments submitted under the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. Is this article 147 the reason that Hope Kolundji is not in the O.R. today, or right now? So, as an authorised representative of the proposings, according to the Rules of Procedure, it must be made clear which amendments are accepted as a proposal and which it does not accept. It is a necessary condition that we, in general, go into debate about the Rules of Procedure. So, I do appeal to the assembly majority, if it has already started in the process of amending the Rules of Procedure, let us at least make these amendments to the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If amendments exist, and they exist, then the mandated representative of the motionors must be made known to this speaker about which amendments are accepted and which are not accepted. Of course this is a logical solution, because what the amendments accept and which they don't will certainly have an impact on the further course of the debate. We can discuss a certain member of the Rules of Procedure, and we don't know whether the amendment, which is in the function of the correction of that member, would be accepted, so, therefore, some of the exposures that would be presented here would be immaterial. The point is, once again, that an authorised representative must be declared before the National Assembly on which amendments are accepted and which do not. I, as president of the Assembly and as chairman, ask you to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to respect Article 147 so that we can continue to work normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13607	It is true that the authorised proposing must be made known, but during the debate, not at the beginning of the session. That's what's gonna happen. The word is Mr. Andric, the Advertiser of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13608	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no matter what, President, what you claim, that is simply not true. I just checked in with article 147. Please, this member doesn't leave room for any discussion. The legislator, the committees responsible, and the government are obliged to consider amendments before the National Assembly sessions. You know what, we've submitted the amendments and we're ready to take part in the debate, but we need to know if any... Let me quote again, for example, Article 45 –The Legislative Committee is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. You did not allow LDP MPs to speak for more than 13 minutes today. Although, apparently, you disagreed, you did not allow it. Let us not even have to lose those 13 minutes to discuss something that will prove to be out of line with the Constitution or some other legal act. It's just that you're wrong. It is impossible to start a single search without a full report from the committees and proposings. After all, our speeches and our vote depends on whether the ruling majority of our amendment accepts or does not depend on it. We have entered these amendments to the Rules of Procedure without any consultation of the heads of parliament, without knowing what the final text of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure is, since the ruling majority today proposed some amendments, some of which change what we received on Friday. It's just that you can't do it like that. You have most of it and you think you can do anything, but you can't do everything. I am sorry that my colleague Konstantinovic is not here, to remind him of something we did together ten years ago – as repression, growth and resistance grow. You can't do that. We need to have a clear proposal, we need to have the position of the promoter and we need to have the Committee's opinion on all amendments. Allow me once again to quote Article 147 – they are obliged to consider amendments before the session and report to the Assembly. It is not about copying the amendments, Madam President, we know what amendments we have submitted, we are interested in the opinion of the Committee and the opinion of the majority. We can't get past this. As for the MPs of the majority coming out and accusing us of obstruction, that may indicate, we will see it in the course of the debate, and what is the real intention of changing this Rules of Procedure - which is to hide the truth, and that whoever wants to show the truth is accused of obstruction. That may be the point. Please, Mr President, do not really exceed your powers and order the committees to declare any amendments submitted in accordance with Article 147. An hour more or less means nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13609	The session on amendments is under way, and the Committee's report may be delivered during work, or during the session. Mrs. Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13610	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, for the sake of the public, the session of the Administrative Committee at which the amendments are being discussed is not under way, because the session scheduled for today, in 9.30 hours, did not have that agenda item on the agenda. So, it will have to end, firstly, this session, which is scheduled, with nine points of the agenda, at 9.30 p.m., and then a new session will be scheduled, which will discuss amendments submitted to the draft Rules of Procedure. Please, this is a very important fact, maybe you're not on the same page, maybe the board president didn't inform you, but there's no other way to do it. I believe that this session today, as it has begun, will end and we will not have any work, that this is a lost day, only because it is not a well-organised and prepared session, or because there has been insufficient maturity between you who have scheduled the session and those who should have prepared everything else for this session to run in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in order to reach the desired goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13611	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of article 27. The Rules of Procedure and your obligations, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, to ensure the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are witnesses, back a few months ago, in fact, from the very beginning of this call, how much a breach of the Rules of Procedure, how much the congregation majority, by its power of 126 votes, does not accept that a broken Rules of Procedure has been broken, even when it is more than obvious, but it is amazing that you have been made to be this perversely, irresponsiblely, irresponsiblely and unpreparedly involved in the changes of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And such a Rules of Procedure, according to which we are working today, you have choked enough democracy and parliamentaryism in the National Assembly, but we do not understand why you insist so much that by adopting such a Rules of Procedure, of course, we will talk about it when it comes to the agenda, if it comes to the agenda, confirm, as a congregational majority, dictatorship, i.e. seducing Boris Tadic's dictatorship in Serbia. It is surprising, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that you have caught up in that round, because you have shown, in a certain way, that you care about the application of the Rules of Procedure, so even in some crisis situations, when you had an agreement to punish the MPs, you owned Mrs. Komic, and you were not present, so that it would not go to your soul. But today, from the very beginning, you started with the most severe violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's amazing and I don't know why you're all reacting with some anger, and you and Mrs. Kolundji, from the scene, isn't there right now, we really don't understand what it is. You told Mr. Martinovic with a sharp tone, he can't go through the Rules of Procedure again. Where does it say he can't talk to the Rules of Procedure 150 times? What you are planning to do through these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we will talk about when it is current, but tell Mr Martinovic that he can't go through the Rules of Procedure again, it is, indeed, very interesting. You said, you deceived Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I apologize, three minutes have expired, that the session of the Administrative Board was interrupted this morning due to the beginning of this session, due to the quorum. Otherwise, a quorum of one-third of the MPs is sufficient, because it is an extraordinary session. If you interrupted the Management Board this morning because of this session, how is it that the Administrative Board is now being held, while at the same time having a session, of course, without the conditions for its work? Once again, I apologize for the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13613	Mr. Martinovic couldn't have been a previous speaker, I said he couldn't get a word now, and of course he could, according to the Rules of Procedure, and he got a later word. Anyway, if I said it, I just didn't think he could go on twice in the Rules of Procedure at an interval of four minutes, as he normally says. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13614	Articles 104 and 27, and as regards Article 147. Presidents of the National Assembly, according to my interpretation, you have injured Article 104 of Rule 2 of this Rules of Procedure, which states: "People's MPs", and you are certainly one of them, "they are obliged to address one another with respect." Respect is not just about avoiding the use of offensive expressions, especially from the post of chairman, but also about each explanation, every address to the MPs regarding their earlier emphasis on the violation of the Rules of Procedure must have minimal suffrage within them, so that you do not insult both the intelligence and dignity of this House and each MP individually. If anyone reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure and very clearly quotes or convinces what it says in Rule 147. The Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the proposal's obligation to consider amendments before the start of the session and to inform the MPs of which amendments are accepted and not accepted, that is an obligation which cannot be avoided. When you, using your right to, in view of the objection that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, give an explanation, the minimum that you are expected to be correct in relation to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and to your obligation under Rule 27 of this Rules of Procedure and to tell the truth. I'm talking about this for the public, because it's not right for you to tell the MPs who come for this pay phone and point out the obvious violation of Article 147 that I'm going to quote once more, because people need to know what it says, that there's no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Article 147 reads as follows: "The legislator of the law", and this applies to decisions, because there is a provision in this Rules of Procedure, read this, "the competent committees and the Government, are obliged to consider, before the National Assembly session, amendments which are submitted on the draft of the law and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected". After we amended the Rules of Procedure, this is an old provision, in which we relativated that obligation to the Assembly Committees, but certainly that provision remained in full scope for the legislator of the bill, i.e. decisions, if you read the other provisions of the Rules of Procedure which refer to the same application. So you can't just tell someone when he comes down from this pay phone, that there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, that there's no need to interrupt the session of the National Assembly to get a message from the promoter. Which is why Hope Kolundji, this question is not addressed to you but to them, does not come out here and clearly says, regardless of the position of the Administrative Committee, which of the amendments tabled by the acceptor, which one refuses? Because how are we even going to get into the debate, how am I going to be head of a parliamentary group, who I have the right to speak for 20 minutes about a proposal, to put my position on behalf of the parliamentary group, and my MPs who answer the word, if we don't know what the proposaler accepts? How is it possible to conduct a debate in this way? Don't insult us. I believe you are directly in violation of Rule 104 of Rule 2 of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13615	Mr. Aligrudic, at 9:30 there were no amendments, the session was scheduled in 10 hours. It's only 10:00 a.m. that the amendments are filed. The board of directors' session is now under way. I guess it's about to end. We haven't started working on the agenda yet. It is obvious that you will advertise the Rules of Procedure until we have a report from this committee, and we will certainly receive the report during the work, as we do and how we have done so far. So that this doesn't go any further on, practically, the dialogue between you and me on the same issue, I accept your suggestion that at 13 o'clock we continue our work. At 13 o'clock, we'll continue our work. [[After break at 13.15.]] The board of directors' session is still under way. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudic answered, and then Mrs Radeta. Here, call again, some are there, some aren't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13617	I'm reporting to members 27 and 104. President, I asked you for a word before you took a break to await the ruling of the Administrative Board. Why? Because in your presentation you said, about, the following, paraphrasing, I can't quote, I haven't been able to get a stenogram – that I guess it's up to us who oppose this proposal, so I realized that we're reporting to the Rules of Procedure until the session of the Administrative Committee is over, or until we hear the position of the representatives of the amendment, so that we can discuss further. How can that be your attitude? I don't get that at all. It is your duty under Rule 27 to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. It is not our obligation to report to the Rules of Procedure to prevent the start of the debate until we have the materials we need. Don't make us do that. When I report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have come forward because I think that the Rules of Procedure have been injured and because I think that in your actions, as President of Parliament, there was something wrong with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and I point to that. You give that notice, and everything's fine. Do not teach us wrong, do not teach us something that the ruling coalition declares should not be – to use and abuse the Rules of Procedure in order to gain time or to achieve some other benefit for a particular parliamentary group. That's not our intention. Believe me, I have no intention of reporting for violations of the Rules of Procedure to delay to obtain materials that we are obliged to obtain under Rule 147. You transfer responsibility to the representatives of the opposition, from whatever party they come from, to report to the Rules of Procedure, so that you can get time to get the materials. Take a break. In that period, materials containing what is stated in Article 147, including the position of the promoter, should be delivered. In this case, on behalf of the promoter, Mrs Nada Kolundji, who should say – and these amendments, as a proposaler, we accept, and we do not accept these amendments, we suggest that they do not accept. When we have it in front of me and, as chief, when I go out to speak for my 20 minutes, then I will be able to have a clear view of what the majority's attitude is when it comes to changing the Rules of Procedure and then I can talk in one normal way about what's proposed as a change and the whole procedure, about everything that can be discussed today. If that's not how it's done, it's a surrogate debate. You have thus proved that you are unable to perform a single session that is designed to jump the opposition, at least technically, without any interference, and you are causing interference from the ruling coalition. What was wrong with providing, at least, all these formal conditions, which you claim to have provided, so that this session would normally run? Why is it my duty to report to the Rules of Procedure to buy time? What time? What are you talking about, Madam President? Look at the stenogram, what you said before you took a break for an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13618	Who reported in to the Rules of Procedure? By the way, our proposal is to hear the proposal's representative. However, will you take Mr Aligrudic's suggestion? You won't. Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, it's completely pointless what we're doing today. I don't know who it was that gave only partial parts of the Rules of Procedure to change. I am a member of the Rules of Procedure Working Group, which you, Madam President, have formed, which has worked for three months on the new Rules of Procedure, which was submitted on 7 March last year, while Oliver Dulic was president of the Assembly. I will immediately tell you that the citizens of Serbia know that we have reached 111 members of that Rules of Procedure and that the agreement is to work on it; the Working Group has, from members to members, worked on that Rules of Procedure. The president of this task force is Mr. Bosko Ristic. It's completely unclear why he stopped working on that task force. It was clearly agreed to work on all the members of the Rules of Procedure, and when the work is done, we will give the text of Rules of Procedure to agree to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, to see the shortcomings of certain members of the Rules of Procedure who are controversial; it is simply a question mark for the Working Group to return. It's unclear why the Constitution isn't respected. Why not pass the Law on the National Assembly first, and then, within 30 days, bring a new Rules of Procedure? Why are such facts avoided? Why don't we act on what you formed three months ago? The fact is, very often, we didn't have a quorum. Some 10-11 of those meetings were held, a working group session, call it whatever you want. Perhaps only about ten hours worked, and on January 21st, a point was put on the work of the working group, although there were proposals that could be accepted, that, eventually, in the days when the Assembly did not sit, we gathered here, members of the Working Group, and to finish the Rules of Procedure. Some parliamentary groups did not participate, we now see – rightly so. Some parliamentary groups have made their proposals in writing and you cannot say that the Working Group has not worked. So there's no obstruction from the opposition's ranks, but it's far too high that at the moment, when we have so many burning problems in the country, we're changing only some members. Does that mean, Madam President, that you're putting on everything that the Working Group has done so far? What's this about? (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'm done. Why aren't members of that task force informed that there's some subgroup that's now doing something that we're determined to do, by your signature, you've formed that task force? You can't accept the way it's handled. Therefore, first, the Law on the National Assembly, to which the Constitution obliges, and then, within 30 days, to bring the Rules of Procedure. Why is the ruling majority in such a hurry? Why now, in a cruel way, does the burden want to be transferred to opposition, that we are obstructing? This is something that is amazing, it is unrecorded that this is how it is treated by the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13620	The working groups, one and the other, and for the Parliament and the Rules of Procedure, continue their work and it would be good for them to bring the job to an end as soon as possible, so that we, as Parliament, can make clear on the harmonisation of the Constitution and the efficiency of the work. So these are preconditions, and I agree that these working groups should finish, though, something more energetic, their work, so that they are in no way derivated, their work is not derivated, on the contrary, they function and work. I was also thinking that we should improve efficiency before this work is done, because it takes a long time, to be quite honest. Mrs. Veronica Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13621	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of article 27, and your obligation, Mrs. Djukic - Dejanovic, is to see to it that you take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. If after this presentation you say there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure now, then there's been twice in today's work. Twice, the session was called off, with the right, because we did not have a report from the Administrative Committee on amendments submitted by individual MPs. It's totally in line with our rules of procedure. What's the motive for continuing your work now? Is it just that, and I believe it is, that it is uncomfortable for you, in front of the public, in front of the citizens of Serbia, that for the third time in a few hours, you interrupt the session for half an hour, or for 15 minutes? When you first accepted the suggestion to work on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, you should have suspended the session until the Management Board finished its work. Not to repeat what most colleagues have said about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that it is entirely indemnity, that it is absolutely pointless to discuss the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, when we know that we have twenty amendments that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we cannot discuss individually. The question is what of these amendments will be adopted so that we can discuss further in that direction. What is really very interesting and what has just been launched by his colleague, Spasojevic, is the question – what makes you go to change eight members of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on the National Assembly is under way? Has anyone ever seen, in any legal system, that the law is almost finished and that, before the law comes to the agenda and before it is adopted, it goes to the making of sublegal acts? Really, believe me, you won't find that anywhere in parallel legal practice. The problem is possible in that Manter sentence when he said that he saw that the issue in Serbia is the essence of Parliament's inefficientness. It's from his point of view. It would be good for one of our officials to draw attention to the efficiency of his Senate, if he communicates with him. Of course, you don't want to discuss it that way, but that's why here, in the most cruel way possible, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. What we're doing right now in the O.R. where we're meeting the Administrative Board... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I apologize, I end up, and what's going on here will really remain in the national Assembly's annals as the most harsh possible way of violating the Rules of Procedure, the Law, the Constitution, the legal system, the legal practice, the parallel law, everything regulated under word law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13622	The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13623	Madam President, too, Art. 47th and 27th, which relate to your work here and the presidency. It's simple, when read, it's clear, we all know that the debate can be conducted without the board's opinion, but it's necessary to win, it's been a practice so far. You keep mentioning the Administrative Board, the work of the Administrative Board, and we don't even have the opinion of the Legislative Committee. We claim that these proposals are unconstitutional, change, and even this old statute is unconstitutional, which is why, according to what the predecessors said, we had to do about the working group and for the change of statutes, the Businessman. A number of MPs have proposed these amendments, and the mandated promoter on their behalf is Hope Kolundji, so we have to have her report on every amendment, whether she accepts it or not, like when the government works. It's so normal, and since it's a unique debate, it means we have to get all that in writing, so we can work. What's the reporting going to be? What's it gonna be? Again, the opposition appears in the Rules of Procedure and talks in the Rules of Procedure, and you are the one who violates the Rules of Procedure. No obstruction. If there's one, it's you. I say again, the incompetent majority. You're incapable of paying off the pensions you promised. You are unable to pay 1,000 euros per share, you are unable to bring in Fiat. You're incapable of selling Bor, JAT, etc. You are unable to pass the Statute of the Vojvodina, and by knowing the same thing; it means, first the law of jurisdiction, and after the statute of the Vojvodina. Because of your incompetence, you're letting EULEX in Kosovo make a country in our territory. You are unable to pass the Law on the National Assembly here and write a new Rules of Procedure. You are incapable of making amendments in accordance with the Constitution. You break the budget, you don't bring it, because you're incapable of doing it in time, we're late, we're going into tea. We let you bring it, even though it's your fault, because you were 40 days late for your incompetence. You're incompetent for the visa regime, you're late for what you promised. You are incapable of European integration. He told you, Ollie Ren, don't write for free. You are incapable of honoring the most ordinary procedure for the adoption of acts in the Assembly, for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. You're completely incompetent and I don't know what else you can say about all this. (President: Time. Time is three minutes. Thank you. I apologize for these ten seconds of overruns, but, indeed, until we have written, about every amendment, the motionary's opinion, there's no point in continuing this. Take a break. When you give us a written opinion from the promoter, then the debate begins.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13624	Mr. Shormaz, the motionary's representative would give you his position on the amendments if we allowed him to do so. Please allow Mrs. Kolundji, on behalf of the promoter, to speak. But you still report to the Rules of Procedure and abuse the Rules of Procedure. It's the best parameter that this session was, unfortunately, necessary, with this agenda. He has the word Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, and then Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13625	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to address both you and the entire Serbian public and to say that this is not the first time that the thesis has been replaced. The inability of the parliamentary majority to understand the essence of democracy and the necessity of dialogue with all political entities in Parliament, if anything, is to be done. I'm asking you one question: would you like to determine the two breaks you've set if we hadn't insisted that the Administrative Committee meet? You scheduled the session. So we were right. The Management Board also found it necessary to make a statement to the Legislative Committee, as there are amendments to be discussed on this basis, whether they are legally possible or not. Does anyone intend to schedule the Legislative Committee? If the board presidents are unable to do their job, you take that obligation, or you let us replace them, so that this job is done by someone who will make the atmosphere work effectively. What bothered yesterday to hold a session of the Administrative Committee? Nothing. What were we doing for a week? We were waiting to hear on TV when you'd schedule a session, as you walked in Serbia and promoted the Statute of Vojvodina. Please, it's no accident that all of this is happening to us right now when we need to solve important state-of-the-art issues. Parliament is choking, the opposition's voice is choking, discussing whether it should be transferred, whether it takes two minutes, 30 seconds for the MP to say something, that the people's voice is not heard, because we are the voice of the people. The manter is uprooted, and he assesses Parliament's work, and nobody in power tells him, "Aman, man, that's not why you're not here and you don't have the right to do something like that," but today you're giving him a creamworth to bow down to him and say, "You see, you were right, you see what this opposition is like, they don't let us do." We cannot allow anarchy in Parliament. You're making that anarchy, and you have to understand that. So anything is possible if we agree to follow the rules that apply here. Now it has proved that the SRS was absolutely right not to participate in the work of this body that worked on the Rules of Procedure, because we knew that you would cheat, that five minutes before the beginning of the session, you would submit even more restrictive amendments, as you have now done, to completely suppress the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13626	Mrs Pop-Lazic, you've been spot-on today, and you know that the first break has been set after Mr Jovanovic's proposal to agree on the prolonged time for the debate, and that the second one has been set to introduce himself to all the amendments, given that some amendments have been submitted at 10 o'clock. So we don't really have formal, or business reasons not to start working anymore. Once again, I invite you to begin your work. Do you respect my request to give our word to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, the proposing representative? Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13627	Ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to restrict the Rules of Procedure and attempt to abolish television transmissions are a dangerous experiment, an attack on democracy and parliamentaryism, evidence of the inability of the ruling coalition and complete incompetence. This session is the best proof of that. Unprepared debate on amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Here's a plastic example. This proposal has, in fact, four members. Formally, it's eight, but it's containing four. Seven amendments to this proposal have been submitted to those four members. So, the applicants, the signers, submitted seven amendments to four members. What are you talking about? Mr. Krasic, don't throw it away. So, this is notsens, this is mocking parliamentaryism, but also intelligence and common sense. Prepare the session properly, do, according to the Rules of Procedure, to obtain conditions for Parliament's work, and then to work, because this is ridiculous, ugly and sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13628	The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13629	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think that, in your well-checked manner, and that's how you've been doing it for several months, you systematically violate Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, since this session is obviously not prepared at all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but Mr Batic also pointed out that there is a mental feller in the appointment and, in general, in the work on this agenda point. It's a good thing there's a transmission, so the citizens could see today, to hear what the papers couldn't read. It is true, Mr. Batic, the motion for this decision has eight members, the last two are transitional. So, six material-legal provisions, and on those six, they filed seven. Who took it? The ones who wrote the motion for a decision. That's what they do with laws. They're denying us a quick trip to the EU, blocking us. Instead of being here with the National Bank Act, so let's see what monetary policy is, the insurance law, the law that we're going to stop workers from working, the law that we're going to raise pensions, they're here making a proposal for a decision that was made at the Institute of Security in Banjaca, and by the order of the American ambassador. Why on his orders? This is a scandal about what's going on in Serbia. In what civilised state can the ambassador of a state order the president of the National Assembly, the president of the state and the president of the largest parliamentary group in power to change their Rules of Procedure, to deny their rights? Can our ambassador in America say, change the provisions on the work of Congress and Senate? No, this is where the American comes in, shakes his hand on the table, shakes the Institute of Security, and we get a sober version and we get a "drunk" variant from the Institute of Security. You'll discuss it. On sick suggestions on how to destroy democracy in Serbia. We don't want to keep you company. You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, take care of what you are involved in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13630	National MP Ivan Andric has a word. Mrs. Hope Kolundji, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Andric, I've already given you my word, and then Mrs. Hope will. All right, here's Hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13631	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that we can argue over this text that is before you and whether anyone understands it as restrictive or not. As far as the Rules of Procedure's respect for calling this session is concerned, there is nothing to argue about, because this session is called fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It has begun quite in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and what I say is, the requirement to know which amendments will be accepted previously, in order to lead the debate, is a unique example so far, we never had as a request, but if you think that we know more precisely what we are discussing then, we can also fulfill that, as a normal response to what is expected that debate in a substantive sense, for those who participate in it, more clearly. We now have two completely conflicting demands. So, we have one request and one request that, until the Management Board completes the session, it will not be debated. I want to explain that this request that we want to meet simply cannot be done because those who feel that the debate cannot even begin until the Administrative Committee has completed the debate on amendments, which is also not in line with the Rules of Procedure. The hearing may continue even if the parent committee has not delivered an opinion. Now there's some arrangement to be made for those who have these two demands, so let's see which one we're going to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13632	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, as vice president, and Mr. Obradovic, after that, and Mrs. Pop-Lazic reported earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13633	Dear colleagues, Mrs Kolundjia, what are we going to do if the Legislative Committee, which would have to meet for every legal act that comes to the Assembly, says that some of these amendments are not legally possible, you come out here and you say, "I accept the amendment," and we don't have a report from the Legislative Committee? You're not stronger than anything. You're not stronger than the Constitution. You have 126 MPs behind you, but there is a Constitution. There are some committees and some people here who make sure everything we do is in accordance with the Constitution. Please make an appointment of the Legislative Committee. It's really inappropriate for you to behave like this. We have already seen on the first amendment that there is a need for the Legislative Committee to say whether the amendment is legally possible or not. It's an LDP amendment. What do we do in this situation? You like, say, the amendment and you want to accept it. Who are you misleading here? Don't play hide-and-seek. You all knew very well, and on the Administrative Board, it was seen that you knew how many amendments there were, how many you would endure, and at what time you were timed to endure them, at 15 to 10, at five to 10, at 10 o'clock. You're making us crazy people here. When do we get to know each other, see what you wanted? Do you even know what you want? Mr. Batic said nice. One working group works, seven members of the Rules of Procedure change, and then you 10 amendments to those proposals. Who are you playing hide-and-seek with? Did you make a deal with each other? Your problem seems to be that you can't agree on what you need to do. Then you're blaming the opposition. Please, if we need to give a lecture here, let someone professional come and tell us a little bit about parliamentary democracy. If it takes a little parallel-legal education here and how it works in the world, let's organize it, it's not a shame. We're not the smartest people in the world. The president can arrange it, we can organize it by the clubs. There are people in this country who, as they follow what we do here, judge our work and know how it is done in other parliaments. Don't talk to our citizens now who here are obstructing, who won't, and how much it costs; first you report to the newspaper, or you go out there to the press, the exclusive right to tell you everything you have to say. Now you're going to impose on us some kind of spokesman to report to the public what's going on in Parliament, not to literally hear the voice of the opposition. That's not gonna happen. The more pressure you put on us, the more resistance you'll have. That kind of thing is unrecorded in parliamentary practice, in countries that call themselves democratic, and you have that prefix and you would want it. There is no sovereign democracy here. There are colloquial democracies here, the ones from Brussels bring you here, the ones that Manter dictates to you, the ones Brammertz dictates to you, or the ambassador of Great Britain, and I don't know who else. As long as we don't come to our senses here and realize that we have to build sovereign democracy, as it suits us, that we only answer to our people, we'll have this anarchical situation in the country and we won't move, believe me, away from the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13634	Three minutes and 30 seconds. The word has a People's MP, Rade Obradovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13635	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I've already advertised today, and, I repeat, we've been pointing to Article 147's injury. So 129 MPs have proposed an act in the procedure, and that is not disputed, that is their right. So 129 MPs asked for an extraordinary session and you scheduled a session in the Rules of Procedure, and there is nothing disputed. Since the draft act is subject to an emergency procedure, the deadline for submission of the amendment is until the beginning of the session, i.e. at 10 o'clock this morning. There's nothing to argue about. Amendments have been proposed. As far as the DSS is concerned, we said we disagreed with the procedure, that while there is a working group working on a comprehensive reform of Parliament, we would propose an amendment of three members of the Rules of Procedure as the only problem that exists at this time in Parliament and Serbia, it is absolutely unacceptable for us and will not solve any problems. You did it and it's not controversial. This isn't about, Mrs. Kolundjia, about goodwill. It's about respecting the Rules of Procedure that we're changing right now. Article 147 is very clear and he says – before the meeting of the Assembly, the proposing representative must declare himself, and that is you. I don't see that there's anything controversial that you can take a break and agree within 10 minutes, first of all, on your amendments. As Mr Batic pointed out, the most amendments came from the very signatories of the act that is in the procedure. Make a deal. Let us know what's acceptable. These amendments substantially amend the proposed acts. It is not right that, pointing to the violations of the Rules of Procedure, we are violating the Rules of Procedure, trying to change it. Article 147 does not leave any space because it says that the legislator and the committee must declare themselves before the meeting of the Assembly. We are now conducting a unique search for all those who are still watching this congregation in direct transmission. This means that within these five hours we are discussing both in principle and amendments, and there is no other time when we will discuss it. Otherwise, we don't know what we're talking about here, if the proposed amendment, some of which you're likely to accept, is changing existing provisions. We don't see that there's anything in here that's controversial that we're wasting our time on. Make a statement and let's keep working. The DSS will not support this act. We didn't propose amendments, because this is not the way to solve the problem. Let's open a debate and see what you accept and what you don't. We've always done it before, and I don't see anything controversial. It is not a matter of goodwill, but of strict respect for the Rules of Procedure, which we all call upon.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13636	There is no breach of Article 147, as the amendment promoter declares himself both during the debate in principle and in particular, when discussions in principle and in particular are held, and this is a unique search. The amendments shall be submitted for information. The difference between these two acts is known to all of us who have brought together acts that have had a debate in principle and in particular and acts in a single search. At any time, including the voting day, the Proposer may decide to accept one of the amendments, on his own initiative, on behalf of the proposing group or on a proposal from the committee responsible. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13637	I have now heard your argument, however, I will have to quote Article 147 again, not to repeat what was said a little while ago, but to point to the injury you have just done in relation to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Therefore, in Article 104, in Section 2, it stands - the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. In some of my previous statements, I pointed out that the duty of respecting is not only to refrain from abusive words or insults, but to an active relationship with MPs, which means respect. If the MP informs you that there is a violation of Article 147 simply, it is not respect for the MPs of the people, you are a colleague here, and all of us, regardless of what you are chairing, to give an explanation that completely denies the explicit clear provision of Article 147 which I will read once again. Article 147 – the legislator, and here the decision is considered, because there is a second provision of the Rules of Procedure, the competent committees and the Government, and above all, the legislator, are required to consider before the National Assembly meetings amendments submitted on the draft law and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. We respect the fact that the session was in an emergency procedure, that the deadline for submitting the amendment was up to 10 a.m. and that the notices of which amendment was accepted and which we couldn't get at 10 o'clock. That's clear. It is equally clear that the provision that provides this in Article 147 actually covers the situation of emergency sessions, so it would be logical that the moment the session formally begins and conditions are created according to the Rules of Procedure, based on a member of the Rules of Procedure who regulates the way the session begins, we get a report on what it says in Rule 147. For what? Because, believe me, it is impossible to hold a debate on the proposed proposal if the proposing submits amendments, not the promoter, but parts of the promoter, because the promoter is the continent and the authorised representative of the Proposer is Nada Kolundji. Some MPs who have signed the proposal are self-initiativeally and independently submitting amendments that alter the essence of the proposal. We now need to start to discuss both in principle and in detail, because the debate is unique, you must not forget it, so as long as we are discussing what is the position of the promoters on the amendments submitted. This is completely contrary to the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, explicitly, the provisions of Rule 147. There's no "exceptional" in this view. It cannot be found in other provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You can, Mrs. Kolundjia, go out and read it to us, but it doesn't change the essence of things, because this provision is given to protect the National Assembly and the MPs from this very situation. It should have been paused, that in this brief break, the proposing representative said which of the amendments that have been submitted are acceptable, which are not, and that on this basis, as members of Parliament, we can give our opinion on all this. That's what basic order is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13638	People's MP, there's no breach of article 147. The proposal does not propose to the Assembly to accept the amendment, if the proposing accepts the amendment, it becomes an integral part of the proposal for an act, if other conditions are met. The debate is being held, we have often witnessed this here, when the amendment's proposings, during the principle debate, were united or not, or debates in a single search, convince the act's proposing that the amendment should be accepted. So, you are calling for a report from the committee that would suggest to the Assembly to accept some amendment or not, and I remind you that the Assembly has the opportunity to work without the opinion of the committee responsible. The Proposer, I repeat, does not propose to the Assembly that any amendment be accepted or not; if the Proposer accepts the amendment, it becomes an integral part of the law and that is the information that we all know in the Assembly. National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13639	Dear Vice President, allow us to disagree with this interpretation, but completely. So I point to Article 147. The Rules of Procedure and his violation, but I have to tell you, this is about two kinds of problems. You are calling for the National Assembly to be able to work without the board's opinion, but that provision is left when things are undeniable. In this case, things are controversial, two questions at a time. The first is the issue concerning the amendments tabled by the ruling majority, which, as they said, are more than members of the law, or the Rules of Procedure, which are being amended. So we don't know what the ultimate proposal is, in general, the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Next, we don't know if any of these parts are against the Constitution, and that's why we insist. We don't understand what the Administrative Committee is doing right now. Since amendments, as everyone has asked from the beginning, must be made known by the Proposer and the Legislative Committee, we argue that it is part of your proposal against the Constitution. So, so much now that I'm not defending the ruling coalition, that's one level of trouble. The second problem we're arguing about with Mrs. Kolundji is more important to us. We need to make a point. The LDP has submitted eight or nine amendments. These amendments, i.e. Their purpose is to speed up the adoption of European laws in the Assembly, but not to dispute the right of MPs to influence these laws at the same time. This is another way of proposing more effective work of the Assembly. Now, since the ruling majority does not want to vote against these amendments here, you, through some administrative committee, prove that it is not possible for these amendments to be passed. That's not true. So, Madam Vice President, we ask you to schedule a session of the Legislative Committee. If there are doubts about whether or not these amendments can be submitted, we and everyone on this side claim that it is possible, then allow the Assembly to discuss them. Do not secretly refuse amendments that protect the rights of MPs, and allow for what the DS allegedly wants, the faster work of Parliament. It's time for this here to be concrete. That's what this is about. Bosko Ristic, a folk MP, and Nenad Konstantinovic, a MP, do not allow our amendments to enter the procedure. That's the point. We ask that these amendments enter the procedure. The only decision can be made by the Legislative Committee. Don't make us clash here, schedule a Legislative Committee and let this be debated there. Of course, it is impossible to conduct a single debate without a previous opinion on the amendments, since there are no other discussions. This is the only one. We have 13 minutes. Those 13 minutes will pass until the Management Board meets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13640	There's no breach of Article 147. A unique search implies that it would be an injury to the procedure if there were no proposings, or that you did not know who the authorising officer was. The promoter is present. Currently, the proposing representative, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, is not in the O.R., will be in the O.R. Article 147 implies the obligation of the proposing act to declare its amendments. Therefore, on the moment that the proposer in any part of the debate makes a decision on the adoption of the amendments, and with prior acceptance on boards, in this case, in the Administrative and Legislative Committee, it becomes an integral part of the act. If the committees are not declared, then in the voting day, by the will of the majority, if there is an amendment, and after a proposal to adopt a certain amendment, a final decision shall be taken. What you're saying is that your amendments aren't in the process, that's not true. The moment you submitted the amendment, he was in the process. It must be part of a single search and delivered to all MPs for information, and ceases to be the subject of the debate, whether the principle of search is united or unique, if it is rejected by the rules of the Members of the Rules of Procedures which mean it. The amendment is in the process. So that's not true. Part of your objection concerns the right of the MPs to submit amendments. Please understand that giving up the right to anyone to submit an amendment is a denial of the fundamental right that we all have as MPs, and I ask you not to put it behind the pay phone anymore, because it will be treated as a humiliation of the Members of Parliament who are dealing with their work and who are submitting amendments, from whatever groups of MPs they are from. Whoever submitted the basic bill, the MPs have the right to submit amendments. There is no breach of Article 147, and I ask you to explain more carefully the injury of the procedure when it comes to Article 147. MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13641	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the best will and with the most sincere intention, we have entered this session, to try to help overcome the problems that arise in the Assembly, and they are created in every other place before the Assembly itself. Madam Chairman, you're putting us in a position to react, protecting the elemental integrity. Why is there this Rules of Procedure, so that you can interpret it as appropriate for you at the moment, or to arrange our mutual relations in such a way that this institution begins, at least, to look like the Assembly? There is a session of the Administrative Committee, which has been under discussion for hours on whether or not the LDP has the right to submit amendments. We should go into the debate without knowing whether the amendments that have been accepted and whether they are part of today's session or not. A member of the Rules of Procedure is clear, the legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to hold a joint debate before the start of the session, a single search, because there is no search in principle and in particular, we have only five hours and 13 minutes, clear. The promoter showed up here for an hour, and he's ready to plead, that's enough for us. We don't need a written explanation of the ruling coalition's representatives, but we don't know what's going on with the committees. The Legislative Committee is not in session because your man is not here, the chairman of the Legislative Committee is not in session today, and therefore does not sit the Committee. We can't work. We have written amendments to correct the ruling coalition's mistakes, which it itself saw these mistakes, so it submitted seven amendments to its proposal. If she knew what she was doing, she wouldn't have written those amendments. Let us save this congregation, if that's possible right now. We think he still is. They must declare, first of all, the members of the Legislative Committee, whether our amendments are in accordance with the Constitution or not, and then allow us to talk here, explain and ask for support from the ruling majority for these amendments, in order to achieve even these declarative intentions, speed up the procedure for the adoption of European laws and overcome Parliament's blockade. We either have a Rules of Procedure, or we don't, but we can't do this anymore. Maybe someone else can, but we can't. That doesn't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13642	There's no violation of article 147, MP. The draft act may accept the amendment at any time of the debate and in the voting day, if there is a majority, an amendment will be accepted. In order to illustrate the truth, I will remind you of the amendments concerning amendments to the Excise Act, when they were not accepted by the Proposer, no committee in charge, but this assembly has made a voting majority. It's legal and legitimate and it can happen with any amendment that's in the process. All amendments submitted by the MPs are in the procedure and must be discussed in the context of a single search. I ask you to understand that every highlight of Article 147's injury will produce an identical explanation, since you don't think it's enough to explain it once. National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13643	Madam Chairman, breach of Article 161. You, Madam Chairman, have the right to be a layman in interpreting the legal norm, but you have no right to raise your laity interpretation to the level of official, or legal interpretation. You don't know that, so please refrain from interpretation. Do you know what you just said? You said amendments to the MPs were delivered for information. You've mixed everything up - an emergency session, an emergency procedure, a unique statement. So, if you're already trying to say that there is no breach of the provisions of Article 147, would you explain what interpretation of the legal norm you came to this epochal conclusion - semantically, etemologically, epistologically, grammatically, linguistically? You don't know it and you don't have to know it, but don't try to explain it. There are no emergency procedures here. Please and ask all MPs to read Article 161. He clearly states when a law can be passed by emergency procedure – in precisely defined conditions and cases, and there is no analogy for sublegal acts here. This is a lex specialis, it was only about the law, not decisions, not the Rules of Procedure, not some sublaw. It just can't. Even if it could, the legislator, trying to stick to Article 161, because he is obliged to explain what the adverse consequences of paragraph 2 are, does not explain what the adverse consequences are, but rather rewrites attitude 1. So it can't be an emergency procedure, that's the first. Secondly, Article 147 must be strictly respected. None of this has been done and the legislator acts like a goose in the fog.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13644	Semantic, legal or anything else, as responsible, for your remark that I cannot pronounce a sentence, the sentence I have spoken is a quote from the script that the service prepares the chairman of the National Assembly and it is put on because it is a single search and will be read when, however, successfully, together, we finish this debate. National MP Vladan Batic insists that the script is not good. You said I wasn't good, not a script. I am obliged to explain to you that in the scenario, in the voting day, it will be read that amendments have been submitted for information, because it is a unique search and there is no specific statement, such as when the debate is in particular. You can check in the script for the previous point, when we had a unique review of decisions concerning RIK elections and National Assembly delegations in parliamentary institutions and organisations. That's the only reason I shared that sentence with you. As for article 147, there's no injury. The draft act may at any time accept each of the amendments during the debate and, if other conditions are met, that is the agreement of the other committees, the amendment becomes an integral part of the draft law. Unless, most of the 126 MPs, in the voting day, decide, in agreement with the proposal, to propose some of the amendments. In accordance with Art. 160th and 161, this session was scheduled and you had a notification about it when reading the script, when this session was opened by National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13645	Article 27, first of all – holding a session. When you mentioned earlier that the sentences you say are written in a reminder that the service has prepared, does that reminder say that you should chicanate us, does that reminder that the services are preparing say that you can randomly interpret whatever you think of and teach us lessons, as your predecessor, the chairman, and the president of the National Assembly, who advised me this way? It has nothing to do with you, but let's hear it. She told me – well, until the promoter comes forward, until we get those papers, you can check in with the Rules of Procedure to buy us some time. Watch what the woman said. For you, though, such a pearl has not come to mind, you are more cunning... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13646	People's MP, I beg you, therefore, not to warn you, but I pray that in our dealings with one another we shall be guided by Article 104 and that we shall not come out of the framework of what each of us means when we speak of any MP, MP or president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13647	Thank you. That's exactly what I'm asking you, and as much as I'm trying to stick to that rule, I'm asking those who are chairing that rule too, but let me tell you what I think was wrong. If I think something was wrong, let me at least say it to the end, so you can hear what it is I mean. I told you, first of all, what I don't think was right by one of the chairmans, that I would link it to what I think was wrong with you. On your part, it wasn't right, in my opinion, that may offend you, privately, I really can't influence you, but it's not right for an LDP MP who comes out here and points out clearly and specifically, as the predecessors have done, at the violation of Article 147, you say, first, that there is no injury to Article 147, which is obvious, and then to add the next sentence – that all MPs who are reporting in the future to advertise an injury to Article 147, thereby violating the dignity of this House and the work of the National Assembly and so on. You see, we had a completely different interpretation, which we expressed when there were words about the way of the presidency and the error itself, when it comes to Article 147, which here is uninterrupted, and that is impossible, when some norm is obvious, when there is no exception that is foreseen in any other norm of this Rules, for any other situation, explicitly clear and clear, and that is exactly what offends the dignity of those who listen to you and who work with you here (we should work together, regardless of whether we are opposition or government, we are working in the same hall, we are doing the same problem), that we are listening to someone who is chairing an offensive explanation that there is no injury to Article 147 which is obvious. That can't be your private attitude. It cannot be anything written to you in a reminder, that you may answer the remarks of the Messengers of the people. What you are doing is, in my belief, a direct violation of democratic procedure and ways treated by the MPs. You didn't bring any legal understanding here, because, according to your expertise, you're not capable. Maybe you're capable of other things, you're not, no offense at all. Simply put, the violation of Article 147 exists until the motionary, who, by no provision of this Rules of Procedure, is excluded from this obligation, comes out here, what Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said very correctly, even if he came out for a pay phone, and dictates to us, if he is not able to do otherwise, and should be in writing – which the amendment promoter accepts and which he does not, so that we can discuss them at all. Your insistence that there is no injury, therefore, your desire to start to debate in detail and principle, which is unique here, without our knowledge of what the proposal today is on the agenda, is more than an offensive attitude. Maybe you don't do it on purpose, maybe someone advised you to do it like that, but I warn you that from our point of view it's offensive and I believe that those who follow this transmission can make a very clear, dry sense, to clarify what this is about and who is right and who is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13648	National MP, the cited part of which you are calling for to be offensive and a violation of article 27, with insight into the stenogram, you can see that I have said – any kind of reasoning of a violation of the procedure that will imply a disputation of the right of any MP to submit amendments, will be considered a humiliation of the National Assembly, because it is simply not allowed. There is no reason to challenge the right of MPs in breach of the procedure, whether they are members of the current, ruling majority, independent MPs or opposition, to submit amendments. It's something spoken for the pay phone, and I gave the warning, that it's inadmissible. I repeat that warning. It is inadmissible that on behalf of the infringement procedure the right of the MPs to submit amendments. By looking at the stenogram, you'll see that that's what it was about, not what you said as a breach of procedure. The promoter may accept the amendment at any time during the debate. MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. I apologize, MP Cedomira Jovanovic, MP Velimir Ilic came forward before you. Since you are both presidents of the parliamentary groups... Thank you. I'm sorry, MP, I didn't notice on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13649	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been insisting all the time only on one debate that would make sense. That's what this is about. The session is scheduled. The way she's prepared is bad and it's, I guess, obvious. We have submitted amendments exclusively with the intention of expanding the possibility of reaching a compromise, which is a basic prerequisite for the normal work of Parliament. The session was launched and in the previous four hours it was interrupted three times, which means we were right when we pointed to the problems that followed the debate. We are now just looking for an answer to the question – when, in addition to the promoter, who has the right to disagree with our amendments, when the committee in charge, which according to the Rules of Procedure and does not have to be declared, is true, because you are calling for an emergency procedure, but before we know that the committee has not spoken, you, Mrs Comic, are obliged to set the deadline in accordance with Article 162. Did you set the deadline? You haven't set the deadline. The Legislative Committee has not spoken. There is no chairman of the Legislative Committee. The Rules of Procedure are being changed. There is a session of the Administrative Committee, which is sitting parallel to this session here. What should we discuss if we do not know the result of this Administrative Committee's work, or does it no longer matter? If the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly are not important, if the laws are not important, if the Constitution does not matter, as it is, then what regulates our mutual relations? Who's louder, who's stronger? Then we do not live in a democratic society, and we cannot agree with that, as representatives of the LDP representing the interests of the citizens who voted for us. Return order to this session, schedule a Legislative Committee, do not have to be held, but schedule it, so that we can say - MPs, it is up to you to declare and assume the role of the Legislative Committee that has not met, and then to speak to representatives of the ruling coalition, representatives of those parties who share our views on this Rules of Procedure and to seek support among them, which we are looking for at this moment within the framework of the Assembly institutions. That's all it is, Article 147 is asking for a proposal. There's Mrs. Kolundjia, we're ready to hear her out, but I'm looking for a report from the board of directors. Let the session be scheduled, and let it be established that the board has not held. Let's keep working on this session over the day, by trying to work out some basic solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13650	There's no breach of Article 147, and there's no violation of Article 162. The last position of Article 162 reads – when the National Assembly adopts a proposal to consider the law by emergency procedure, it sets a deadline within which the committees responsible will submit reports, as well as a deadline within which the Government, if it is not the legislator, will give an opinion on the bill. The National Assembly is us and we have set a deadline for it to be during the debate. The National Assembly set a deadline for the start of this session. We have asked, or the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to determine when the Administrative Board will end and when the Legislative Committee will be appointed. The Management Board shall continue. During the debate, you will receive a report from the Legislative Committee. This is what the National Assembly determines as a deadline. It also set the deadline for amendments to be submitted until the start of the debate. It's a practice we've had so far for all the laws. So, all the committees, the parent, provided us with reports while the debate in principle lasted a great deal. This is a unique search and the misunderstanding is, obviously, that you believe that the discussion of a single search must be treated as well as the debate in principle. He can't. A unique search, the reason I quoted part of the script, has a different form, this one that some MPs dispute as procedurally incorrect. People's MP Velimir Ilic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been arguing all day, the opposition is trying to defend the Rules of Procedure, better than none, but in Parliament, we have one single rape of the law, a pursuit of something that is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a complete murder of democracy. We do not want to let ourselves belittle this assembly, the dignity of the MPs and the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Many MPs here have fought their whole lives for democracy. We want the most basic democratic principles to be respected, regardless of who the party is, because this kind of bullying, outwitting, that at all costs something is being pushed through and just – let's go to the vote, doesn't lead anywhere. We know you're in big trouble, gentlemen of the ruling coalition. We know there's nothing you can do. We know you have a problem with the Duke's statutes and you can't vote him. Half of you won't vote. Now you're breaking. We know you don't have any Europeans, your law, as you say, ready to argue in this House, because you cannot agree. We know that you understand that you need choices and you want to impose them at all costs, because you don't know where you're going next. We discussed the Excise Act here and you're returning it again, after two weeks, to the procedure. Why? Because you couldn't make a deal in the ruling coalition. You're returning it because you have nothing else, and you have to return it, according to the finance minister, it's a disgrace that MPs don't honor the deal with Philip Morris. Is Philip Morris supposed to say what MPs should vote for? Is "Philip Morris" the one who needs to impose what I need to say? We know that you realize that now is your time to make choices, because if you come back later in the fall, hard on you, you're nowhere to be found. You want to provoke us to something that is completely undemocratic, which is a total violation of democracy, the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of MPs and anything, which is why you impose this debate, so we can talk for hours about the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which you really are making.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13652	National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13653	Of course, since the Rules of Procedure are being broken, you want to blame the opposition, every day to make shows, to say that the opposition is guilty. Well, the opposition has dignity and does not allow a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The opposition has the dignity and commitment to the electoral body and won't let you do what you want. That's why, of course, we're going to talk about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, so we're going to see who wins. You're pushing this on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13654	People's MP, name a member so you don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13655	I'm not gonna break the Rules of Procedure, but I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13656	People's MP, he can't do both. You cannot claim that the opposition is silenced and makes it impossible to speak and speak for three minutes and 30 seconds without fulfilling the basic obligation of the Rules of Procedure, to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured and to explain the procedure. One of those two can, and you'll have to decide which one is next time you call, because you noticed that the procedure was damaged. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13657	Gentlemen fellow Members of the People, given that an emergency procedure has been requested for this sublegal act, Rules of Procedure, and that our current Rules of Procedure clearly determines where possible, I would dare say that these terms and conditions may exist. Maybe they made it. I'll read the terms, and you can judge for yourself. Therefore, only the law governing issues and relations created under circumstances that could not be foreseen can be adopted by an urgent procedure. What could not have been predicted, if someone was here ready to go out for a pay phone, so let him come out and tell us? Maybe it's the floods, God forbid, the earthquake, it was falling a little snow last night, or something like that. The lack of law, in this case of the Rules of Procedure, could result in adverse effects on the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations?- I'm sorry. Perhaps, indeed, if we were to stay with this old rules of procedure, which we also consider restrictive, and now that you are proposing even more restrictive measures, both the lives and the health of people would be at risk if the opposition MPs had the opportunity to go out for a pay phone and let them know what is waiting for them and where this government is leading us. You're absolutely right. If you are aware of what we are aware of, that is, the path that you are leading us. Then there are emergency procedures. One more question. Please, the promoters have signed their name and last name. What affected some of the MPs who signed the proposal, after 24 hours, to submit the amendment and seek even more restrictive measures? What? I don't know who invited who. Did Kacin call Tadic or did Tadic call the MPs? There were two MPs who had to sign these amendments, or Ollie Ren, or it was Manter. I don't know who's setting you up here in the state. It is impossible, you know, for the same man to sign that proposal of the Rules of Procedure and say after 24 hours, turkey dots do not apply, I seek even more stringent measures, even less rights, for MPs to be choked even more by democracy in this country. Someone must've told you -- you didn't do a good job, you should've done it so that you couldn't hear it at all and that everything that needs to go through, that people don't know it's gone, because the press is in our hands, the television is in our hands, we're going to stop, we're going to move a little bit more, we can only do what we want. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. That's why we're insolent right now. I'm saying this for the public, so I can plastically explain to them what's the point of our disdain. So it is not just a form, but also a content and what is involved in the further development of parliamentaryism in our country. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13658	The sitting shall be convened in accordance with Article 161. We all heard the argument when we opened the session, and I warn you that you cannot, in violation of Article 104, disqualify other MPs and their right to submit amendments. The acquisition of words pursuant to Article 100(1) implies an explanation of the infringement of the procedure and does not contain amendments from other MPs or commenting on their right to submit amendments. National MP Jadranko Vukovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I apologize for turning this constructive debate in a different direction for a moment, but I had to report back and take advantage of the article. 225 and 226. I ask the Council for and national security - are they familiar with what we received a few days ago, with a serious warning, serious information from the UN tribunal, that the UN tribunal, in the absence of evidence, in the process that leads to Vojislav Seselj, is considering how to deny him the right to live? Simply put, he's thinking about how to kill him. We received this as a warning, members of the team who participated in the preparation of the defense of Professor Vojislav Seselj. Of course, we don't participate anymore, you know that his rights are denied, but he's been defending himself for a few months. Now they're thinking about how to deny him the right to live; due to lack of evidence, the process ends, seven hours left, as you know. I ask this question to the National Security Council, do they have any information on the tribunal's intention to liquidate Professor Vojislav Seselj? If he's available, we'd like to hear back from him. If they don't answer, and they have that information, they'll be accomplices on a Sunday like this. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13660	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13661	Madam Chairman, I checked in this morning, but I wasn't lucky to get a word in after all this time. I'd like to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure in relation to Rule 147, then 160, 161 and 162, final position. Mrs. Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly, we cannot turn the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia into the children's entertainment site "Our Joy". We shouldn't let that happen, nor should we be presented here with things that are totally out of line with the Rules of Procedure. Namely, in Article 147. The Rules of Procedure – the legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged, before the National Assembly session, to consider amendments submitted on the draft of the law and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. Do we have that? We don't. So neither the Government nor the Committee has delivered their opinions to the National Assembly, nor has any MPs been informed of this here. Don't take this time away from me, because I quote the Rules of Procedure, please. Bringing in other general acts, and it's just this act that we're talking about. Namely, in Article 160. The Rules of Procedure states: "The draft rules of procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions or conclusions may be submitted by the legislator, in writing, with an explanation". Item 2: ''The proposal for an act under Article 1 shall be previously submitted to the MPs and a single search shall be opened for them. ''However, ''in the process of adopting other regulations and general acts adopted by the National Assembly, the provisions of this Rules of Procedure shall be applied accordingly, if this is not otherwise specified for certain types of acts.'' I would like MPs to be explained which member or provision is otherwise provided. What is very important, Madam Vice President, is that I must say that the provisions of Article 161 are being violated, especially when it comes to an emergency procedure. The law can, exceptionally, be passed by emergency procedure. That's attitude one. Article 2 — an emergency procedure can only be passed by law governing issues and relations arising from circumstances that could not be foreseen. Let the promoter come out and say what circumstances could no one have predicted? What exactly is this about? Then, harmful consequences. The motion for this act does not specify the adverse consequences that will arise for the country's health, lives or security. When you deliver these arguments to us, then we can say that the proposal was established by the promoter and that it is in accordance with both the Constitution and the current Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, three centuries ago, in the English Parliament, a sharp battle was fought between the monarch and Parliament and eventually the English parliament won, and the monarch had to accept the decisions and views of parliament. So here is the asphyxiation of parliamentary democracy in Serbia... (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry, but you didn't charge me what I had to quote? (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. So, a minute and 30 seconds you get to quote. Can I finish, not pick up another time?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13662	If you want us to break the Rules of Procedure together, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13663	I won't break it, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13664	I'd like to hear from you. Time is very carefully measured and I say the time that every MP has been given by the Rules of Procedure. You quoted 45 seconds and, because of the importance of the subject and the number of members, you had another 45 seconds at your disposal. Four minutes and 30 seconds, so a minute and 30 seconds more than prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. None of the members you quoted were injured. Members who arrange an emergency call procedure, we heard the explanation for it when opening the session and it was done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 147, which implies the obligation to declare the committee, i.e. the Proposer, is applicable, as it states in the Rules of Procedure. The legislator will plead during the debate, at any time until the hearing is concluded, and the committees' reports will be obtained during the debate, as well as in the case of a debate in principle. The will to point out a breach of procedure, that a unique search cannot begin until a written motionary becomes known simply does not stand. I think that's clear for all of us. A unique search begins as every time a principled search begins, whether a debate is united or not, and then, during the principled search, we receive reports from the committees responsible for amendments, proposals and government reports, if it is not a proposal. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13665	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 101. I think it's quite clear, Mrs. Komic, that we don't understand ourselves, not you and I personally, but I don't think we understand ourselves as representatives, on the one hand, of an opposition party who has submitted amendments which essentially thinks it contributes to a better quality Rules of Procedure vote, which is governed by our relations, and you, as a representative of the ruling coalition, which is absolutely not interested in such a thing. The hours have passed in this debate. Further involvement in something like this is, first of all, personally humiliating to us, and apparently it's become pointless. In fact, so many times so far, we have shown why it is important to make this debate reasonable and how important amendments are that, in fact, no one has finally declared that any benevolent could have understood such a thing. Since it is clear to us that you understand very well what we are talking about, and it is obvious that at this moment the ruling majority is not interested and committed, not even the Rules of Procedure himself who is trying to change the work more effectively, I think we are no longer obliged to show you on the path that the ruling coalition should move. If possible, I suggest you organise a vote at this time and vote your Rules of Procedure, and then, in accordance with that Rules of Procedure, schedule a new session, come out with your legal proposals and thus start working in new conditions. The LDP is not responsible for you writing your Rules of Procedure today, as you wrote the Duke's statute half a year ago. The LDP is not responsible for your lack of hearing for us today, as you did not have hearing for yourself during the discussion of the Excise Act. If we have something to do with the citizens of this country, it's a minimum of reason. At this point, that mind obliges us to invite you to immediately organise a vote on the Rules of Procedure, to vote a rule of procedure in which only the head of the parliamentary group will, twice a week, have the right to speak on behalf of their MPs, to send a message to the public that, when they vote in the elections, they do not vote for their representatives, but for the bosses who will speak for them, because they do not have the right to, even two minutes to write and explain amendments that need to improve the laws and thus finally give a definition of the political moment in which we live, which is bad, not because we want to do so, but, first of all, because you are not able to offer something better. I hope you didn't take this personally, because I have nothing personal against you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13666	Not at all, and I'm sure none of you 249 have anything personal against me, but we're talking about the jobs we're in charge of. National MP Dusan Maric says he does not guarantee for himself. I guarantee it. I assume a rhetorical proposal has been made to end the debate. It's not even possible by the Rules of Procedure, and of course no one here wants it. A five-hour debate, a unique review of changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, will be held. It's up to all of us together when it starts. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13667	Mrs. Comic, I answered as Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic was chaired. Of course, I'm not burdening you, but I'll also take advantage of your presence, and I'd like to point out the violation of Rules of Procedure in Rule 27, Article 104, first of all, by you who chair this assembly and certainly to Article 147, which regulates everything that applies to the agenda of today's session. I mean, as the previous speaker said, it might be a good thing that this session is happening today in the way it happens. I think that no session so far, as you 'Eurouniates' like to say, has shown more transparently where the origins and outcomes of all the problems relating to the work of this Parliament, all those problems that are being pictured from this Parliament are in the executive power and everything that depends on the work of this Parliament. Today we have tried to point out from this pay phone to the procedural mistakes that you have made and which, as chairman, you will not, as well as the President of the Assembly, accept and confess. We referred to the violation of Article 147 on the part of the Committee's duties and obligations to deliver their opinions. At one point, the president of the assembly, respecting these remarks, interrupted the session at 12 o'clock and something. At 13 o'clock, the session continues, with the conclusion: The Administrative Board is still in session, waiting for his report. A few minutes after that, the speaker of the assembly told us that the proposing representative was familiar and could give his opening statement, or he could answer anything she was asked to. We insist that the committees that are sitting, or sitting, deliver their opinions to the MPs, so that they can get to know each other. What is done, objectively, is not good and I think that what you have demonstrated today, all who represent the majority of the assembly, may be able to give the contexts and frameworks for which the new rules of procedure is adopted, what effects it can give, or what the consequences will be for parliamentary life in Serbia, after its adoption, and in general, political life and the atmosphere in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13668	There is no breach of Article 27 or Article 104. The session is scheduled in accordance with the relevant members of the Rules of Procedure. Article 147 shall apply. The proposer's representative will, at any time during the debate, declare his acceptance of any of the proposed amendments. All proposed amendments are in the process, and the Assembly can conduct the debate without written reports from the board. National MP Srdjan Spasojevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, everything here is hurt when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. By order of this session of the National Assembly, I fully join the constitution of Vladan Batic, Article 161 has been violated. Rules of Procedure, where it is clear when a session can be called by emergency procedure. What's absurd is that one part of it you want to put on and call on Article 161 and that part of the obligation to declare to the Legislative Committee that it is not necessary, that it is sufficient, perhaps, administrative committee. If you are already interpreting that this session can be scheduled, then you must comply with all those binding requirements in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the problem is that the Legislative Committee cannot be collected, it cannot hold a session to declare the amendments that certain parliamentary groups have submitted. We need to know one fact which, in practice, many MPs who are members of the Legislative Committee are unknown, which we have learned in the towers of the Assembly. I am a member of the Legislative Committee and, believe me, no one has informed me that certain members of the Legislative Committee and the Justice Committee are on their way to Spain, at some meetings, from February 9th to 16th. It is therefore unacceptable that a member of the Legislative Committee does not know of such a course. I ask the President of the National Assembly - who has appointed these members to go on this journey, and most likely among them are certain members of the Legislative Committee, which is why the Legislative Committee cannot be scheduled? Of course, you thought that this debate was going on in principle, that there would be these reactions to the opposition and that after 16, after the 16th day of the day, because of the holidays, the Legislative Committee would declare itself. That's not correct. First of all, it is not correct that members of the Legislative Committee should not be informed of this. Do not realize that, as a member of the Legislative Committee, I would intend to travel to Barcelona and Madrid, but it is entirely inappropriate to conceal this fact that the amendments that have been submitted cannot be drawn up by the Legislative Committee. It is incorrect, not in harmony with any fine conduct in the National Assembly. It's totally amazing. I ask a question and ask the president of the National Assembly for an answer, who has appointed and who are the members? Why have the other members of the Legislative Committee, including myself, not been informed of such a journey? That is why the Legislative Committee does not meet. I repeat again, just on the basis of stories from the tower, I am not informed at all, I assume that the members of the Legislative Committee are on their way and there is no quorum to meet the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13670	There are no injuries to article 147 regarding the report. You'll get the report during the search. The difference is that it's not a principled search, whether it's a united debate or not, it's a single search. All absences of MPs, possibly, absences due to travel, pass through the Committee on Foreign Affairs and with the approval of the President of the National Assembly. The trip you're talking about is a study visit funded by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I can't tell you what MPs are in the context of that visit outside the country right now, but you can get information about it from the secretary of the National Assembly. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13671	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Madam Chairman, have been injured. 77th and 78th. Rules of Procedure. I must, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, who may now begin to follow the session's transmission, to return to the beginning of today's work. Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP, came out with a proposal, and later all the heads of parliament groups, and Mr Dragan Todorovic, and individual SRS, DSS and LDP MPs, to suspend the meeting until the meeting of the Administrative Committee, which is scheduled today, is completed. First of all, I'm protesting and I think the Rules of Procedure is injured, because the session is scheduled for today at 9.30 p.m., not yesterday, on Monday, when we had the day off. However, we could not know that Natasa Vuckovic, Zeljko Ivanji and the other MPs of the ruling coalitions, in five to ten, or in a minute to ten, would submit seven amendments to eight members of this amendment and supplement the rules on the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the latest restrictive measures. When that happened, the question was raised, why did the committee, which Mr Konstantinovic, in line with the Rules of Procedure, not end up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Not knowing about this new, elaborated game of Hope Kolundžija, Nenada Konstantinovic and others from the ZES group, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, said that there should be a session of the Administrative Committee at which the first point of the proposal for a decision on the Business, not knowing that Konstantinovic will resort to something else, to distract the public, and above all SRS MPs, first of all, Serbian citizens, who are being overrun and stealing election will. You know, Mrs Comic, Nenad Konstantinovic, knows Nada Kolundžija, that the 9th session of the Administrative Committee is scheduled – the activation of the resignations for former SRS MPs. They ignore it, and even move on, to enter into a debate on amendments to the decision taken, and among other things, one of the amendments was submitted by a certain citizen, Budimirovic, who is to be found to have stopped her mandate in the SRS, on the basis of a resignation that, in accordance with Article 102(2). The Constitution signed by its will, like everyone else, of course, until the court, or the competent state authorities, in the course of the procedure that 18 other stolen resignations, the mandate of the SRS, actually, are what belongs to us. Mrs. Kolundjia, let's play cat and the mouse won't. That's what I'm telling you right now. What are you going to do today, I really don't know, but I am asking you, as president of the ZES Group, to come out now and tell us, to us as members of this Parliament and of us who are not members of the Administrative Committee, when there will be a continuation of the session and when we will be able to discuss, or colleagues who are members of the Administrative Committee, on point 9, or on documents submitted... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... by the SRS Parliamentary Group? This is what Mr Nenad Milic from LDP asked for, I end up, Mrs Komic, because otherwise you are distracting the public and playing Parliament, and how restrictive these measures are and from whom they came, not only from Manter, but from a certain gentlemen from the Council of Europe that I spoke to yesterday, in my later announcement. I'd like to ask you... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... Mrs. Kolundjia, would you step out and tell us when the 9th-point session will be held at the 34th session?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13672	There's no injury, sir. In 77 and 78, neither did he explain the content of your presentation in any way a violation of the procedure of the Management Board's session, scheduled in accordance with the procedure. The two breaks given, the first break during today's working day, was given on a proposal by one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups to extend the time of debate to 10 o'clock. Regardless of the fact that there were more than 126 MPs in the hall, it could not have been registered by entering the electronic system and that is the only reason why after that break we could not reach the proposal, by voting, that the debate on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure lasted 10 hours. The second break was made with the intention to make an agreement with representatives of the parliamentary groups on working during today's day. The Management Board, as notified by the service, has completed its work and the report will be shared. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. I'm going to talk about another direction, from the human, as they say, commitment to my population, to the Roma community. Today, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you followed over TV and the printed media that burned the barracks of 11 families under "Gazale," and that, thanks to God and happiness, the children, the women and the other well, there was no tragedy. The SRS, back in the day, has urged state institutions to address the problem of the Roma community, which has been standing in place for almost 10 years. I believe that the Roma community and we Roma in this country belong to our democratic state of Serbia, that we are members of this society, and that the state has an obligation to take care of its citizens and social problems and to do what needs to be done. I went to a Roma village under "Gazale." The tragedy is great. There's still these burns left. To my surprise, there were 11 containers. I wouldn't be talking about these 11 containers if they hadn't been received in 2004. The Roma community from Zemun and the Roma Integration Centre in Germany had contacts and then travelled to Germany one delegation. They were received by the director of Caritas, Mr. Stockman. They agreed that German Karitas would provide 90 containers for displaced persons. But the containers came through our organizations, the state, couldn't get through the Roma, that's normal. To this day, they didn't show up anywhere. Was it supposed to wait so many years for something to burn down, to have a tragedy, so these containers would be assigned? Secondly, 250 containers were obtained, too, from Germany and to this day they are not known where they are. Of these 90, we don't know where 79 containers are. I would also ask that, if it is by procedure, and I appeal to the Belgrade City Service, because there are over 50 tonnes of garbage there, they told me that there are snakes, frogs, lizards, rats, etc., and believe me...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13674	People's MP, from whom you demand the notice you need to work, and by art. 225th and 226th?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13675	I answered, Mrs. Comic, I don't know if you heard that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13676	People's MP, in the third minute, because you said you called in an article. 225 and 226, so I ask you, who are you asking for the notice that you need today for work, as a People's Messenger?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13677	I appeal to the Assembly of the City of Belgrade and President Gilas. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. I'll just say a few more words. I'm asking for a notice, as a People's MP, how many donations did it take from 2000 to today for the Roma community? The SRS and I, as a representative, asked a question a few months ago, and I didn't get an answer until today, so I'm asking to finally get that solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13678	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, but she is not present in the hall. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13679	Art. 27, 103 and 104 of our Rules of Procedure. Due to the presence of MPs and the public, who still has the opportunity to monitor what is happening in the National Assembly, I must draw attention to the fact that we do not have a representative of the rapporteurs of this decision here, or, as far as I can see, the amendments, that on four to six members who are changing in the Rules of Procedure, those who have drawn up the Proposal for Amendments and the additions of the Rules of Procedure have submitted seven amendments. Given some of my earlier presentations, and then there was a situation for the government to submit a bill, and then to submit amendments, or to urge the MPs to submit amendments, and then to accept amendments, so they become an integral part of the bill's proposal. We now have the same situation. We have a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, seven amendments came in the meantime; the proposing representative will adopt those amendments, so that all others who wrote the amendments did not write them on the text, but on some other text. This is a kind of abuse, first of all, by the DS, who doesn't care about going to Europe, and I have proof of that. Let me remind you, a few days ago there was a great fuss – how this, Zoran Krasic, deputy head of the delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, then they wrote – a fake, so this, and that, all sorts of things. Just a reminder, your Sutanovac said two days ago that there was no talk of Serbia entering NATO. Why don't you attack him? Why didn't you get rid of him right away? It's destroying your basic policy. Well, look what they're like. That's what the public needs to know. This topic today is in place to again be blamed by the National Assembly, of course, radicals, if, God forbid, the snow strikes, we have robbed Bosnia as a political party, to hide that the government is some rotten coalition, to cover up what is being prepared for Vojvodina. You count on us forgetting what you did when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. You're counting on them to forget about it and the citizens to forget about it and the pensioners to make those promises, and everyone will forget everything, because this is going to outrun and start talking. In order not to carry out this kind of manipulation, Mrs. Komic, I ask you to put my proposal in the voting day that Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, by order of some of her friends from the US Embassy Institute of Security, would have designed such a session, where the public, in some way, would have been disabling, by placing herself here or there, who is right, who is wrong. What we're sure of is that DS is never right and whoever was with him in the coalition has torn the coalition apart at the expense of the state. In the day to vote, I ask you to put this proposal, that Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija has committed a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure and, that some justice, all these costs should be put on her personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13680	People's MP, you will see with your insight into the stenogram that in no word or sentence, you have explained the violation of the procedure of Articles 103, 104 and 27. What you have said, I warn you it is a violation of Article 104 and there is no way to challenge anyone to submit the amendment, regardless of which group it belonged to and that the submission of amendments is not a violation of the procedure. Your exposure is on the verge of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. You did not specify any member of the Rules of Procedure injured the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji so that we could declare ourselves in the day of the vote. The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the topic that should be discussed today, and these are amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has been current for several days in all the media. Everyone gives themselves the right, and those who can comment on it and who should comment on it, and, for God's sake, those who have no right to make such comments dared to give us a lecture these days. I said in the morning, I will repeat, and now, that all this is happening, this whole mockery with Parliament, with parliamentary democracy, with the Rules of Procedure, because US Ambassador Manter, who here is making a cap for everyone, who actually manages our fates, said that Serbia's biggest problem is the failure of Parliament. Then you from the ruling coalition, that, God forbid, don't mind Dad Manter, you've made this eight members better than usual, so good that you've submitted one amendment each when you've slept through it, but you should have fulfilled your obligations to the one who's obviously an off-the-book boss in this country. Then one of the heads of Parliament's groups, Mrs Nada Kolundžija, was the most present in the media these days on the subject of the Rules of Procedure, in the most harsh way possible violated Article 104, injured the dignity of the National Assembly, you, Mrs Komic, Article 27, or Ms Slavica Đukić-Dejanović of this morning, too, because, by the function you perform, you have to be so informed and you should have reacted and to warn Mrs Colundžija that even outside this pay phone, since here, otherwise, she never speaks, has to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. Mrs. Kolundji said that today's session is expected to be a mess, because some will try to make it a 'last war for their rights'. So, Mrs. Kolundjia, in this sentence, admitted that we, the MPs of the SRS and others of the opposition, but speaking on behalf of the MPs of the SRS, are here fighting for our rights, but that it will be some kind of, as she said, the last war. We are not at war, we are democratically fighting for what the citizens of Serbia have given us, we have been sent by 78 Serbian radicals to this parliament. Today, thanks to Manter and Tadic, there are fewer of us, today because of Manter and Tadic, a session of the Administrative Committee was interrupted when the resignation of the three mandates of our former MPs was due to, but everything in Serbia is in the role of the dictator Tadic and his mentor, Manter, and whatever Rules of Procedure you bring will not prevent us from daily informing the citizens of Serbia. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for overstepping my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13682	On behalf of Serbian citizens, an apology has been accepted. Injuries to the procedure, which you are, referring to the article. 27th and 104th, it was not possible and it was not possible to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure relating to the course of the session, and for the public appearance of any of us MPs. Public appearances are subject to public condemnation, are subject to slander charges, or criminal charges, but cannot be the subject of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as the Rules of Procedure deal with the procedure for the act and for the course of the session in the National Assembly. National MP Ivan Andric is not present. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13683	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226, by requesting notice from the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the authentic interpretation of Articles 161 and 162 in relation to Article 162. 160th and 147th. Rules of Procedure, was it possible for this proposal to be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure and discussed? Madam Vice President, I've been asking more questions lately to the government of the Republic of Serbia and its other resolutions, but we're not getting any answers. If we do get answers, these are the answers that are unnecessary because they do not contain the answer that is asked of a particular question. I asked the question – how will the government and the competent state authorities be charged against the usurper of state agricultural land, what do public defenders in municipalities do? I request a report from all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia and ask again, for the tenth time, not to give up, reports and contracts on the lease of state-owned agricultural land and annexes, for the settlements that have been concluded against the Law on State-owned agricultural land and against the Law on Bond Relations. I ask for a report from the public defenders and the Ministry of Agriculture and other resolutions, on what is the status of pasture in the Republic of Serbia, therefore, identification and cadastre, because many settlements in Serbia have been damaged, as the usurpers have taken away their pastures and are taking away the most quality agricultural land from the former agricultural combinations. The mobsters have come into possession, weapons, sessions, harvesting fruits, and the state and our peasants have no such luck, nor have they been allowed to use agricultural land under certain legal conditions, as well as others. So, "Agrarian Mafia" is the biggest mafia and the most damage to the state is done by the agrarian, agricultural mafia, which is supported by municipal commissions, which, on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, make up contracts and rent agricultural land, do not charge fees. I call on the public prosecutor to bring criminal proceedings against the president and the members of these committees, because hundreds and hundreds of millions have done damage to the state, and besides, usurperers have gone into possession, they don't come out of property, they don't close contracts, and they don't pay the state anything. So to save this country from thieves and mobsters who profit from the damages of citizens and taxpayers in agricultural agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13684	People's MP, I'd like to direct you to article 158. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we would all have to know how authentic interpretation of the law comes about. So you're obliged to submit a written proposal and explain what you're looking for. It can't be done with this use, or abuse of art. 225 and 226, and I warn you that, under previous agreements, we use the members of 225 and 226, in a silent manner, in the way we use them because it is an agreement between the chairman and each of the MPs. If the MPs wish to break such an agreement, there will be no wording per article. 225 and 226. Article 158 and authentic interpretation of the law. This is my view of your exposure by demeaning the National Assembly, and don't let it happen again. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants a word and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13685	Advertising Article. 27, I would like to draw attention to the MPs that, in the meantime, we have received a report from the Administrative Committee on which amendments, from those submitted on this proposal, are accepted by the Committee, which could not, which could not be left behind, under Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when it comes to an emergency procedure, but could not be left out of the obligation of the Member State. 147 that the legislator, i.e. These decisions say which amendments accept and which ones do not. Mrs. Kolundzhija could be honored to come here and, when this report is divided, at least verbally, says of this speaker – I agree with this opinion of the Committee and, as a proposing, everything the Committee has accepted and I accept, everything the Committee refuses, and I refuse to, to know what this is about. You see, since we have been discussing this for hours, whether or not there is a breach of the provisions of Article 147, which is obvious, in that we get the answer from the chairman that it is night, even though it is obviously day, and that we have been working on it for hours, probably, with a goal that someone in the ruling coalition came up with – that on the very day when the amendments of the Rules of Procedure are discussed, which are imposed here, there is an impression of the vindication of these changes, by going out in vain for the pay phone and saying various injuries to the Rules of Procedure, indicating, above all, the violation of Rule 147, of what we are comfortable with that there is nothing, and so indefinitely. If that's the impression you want to gain, you from the ruling coalition, believe that from this moment on, we will not afford that pleasure. We're aware you have a majority. Most of them win the election, so the work you want to do will be done. There's no way the opposition can stop it. We can sit like this for seven days, and on the eighth day, you'll finish the job you imagined. You will go your own way, where democracy does not live, but there is no reason for us to be complicit in your evil intentions and for our complicity, even unconsciously, to be done in such a way that we will respond to your provocations to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, this debate about Article 147, where we claim that the day of the sun, and you claim to be at the same time night, doesn't make any sense. From this moment on, we at the DSS, on our behalf, will not report to the Rules of Procedure, not even when you drastically violate it, because the larger and more drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure than what you've been doing all morning, I can't imagine, unless you invite someone to beat us here out of pure peace. We'd probably rebel then, and for this second one, it doesn't make any sense anymore, there's no point. As far as we're concerned, go ahead, start a debate outside of article 147. Rules of Procedure, go into debate, search in principle and in detail, which is unique. We'll probably get back to you saying what we think about that stupid proposal of yours that you've made, and then you're still doing whatever you know and know, because the way you started doing this doesn't lead to anything good for this country and it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13686	People's MP, by the contents of your presentation, you have not explained the violation of any member of the Rules of Procedure, and I really ask that if we are calling for any of the members of the Rules of Procedure to be injured, let us explain this injury. I think that the work of all MPs, especially MPs of opposition parties, is valuable to every assembly, including ours, and I don't see the reason for the evaluations you've given in your presentation. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13687	First of all, I'd like to thank the chairman, because I was absent the moment you called me, but also MPs are people, so sometimes physiology has some logic. I'm reporting in accordance with the members, which I believe will remain, 225 and 226, to ask a few questions. What I'm very interested in is - are we gathered today to play some kind of poker game, because the session is so prepared that it looks like this side, where there are no MPs at all, is playing poker against this opposition side of ours, bluffing with some sort of additives of alleged efficiency, respect for procedure, a return of trust in the institution, which they have disfigured themselves? Do you really think that Serbian citizens are pacers and do you believe that you have full anywhere but your personal accounts and pockets? Your pre-election slogan was – Europe has no alternative – and everything you have done, you have worked on behalf of Serbia's good intentions to join the EU. The way things are going, the sooner we're going to get into the Ginis Book of Records, because if we're going to pass 200 laws by the end of the year, that would be, roughly, the law a day, and the fact is that there aren't so many working days, as already noted by the head of the NS Parliament Club. However, when Emperor Bora says, his is not questioned. He also explained to us that we were not good students, and no more stories about what life means to the people, but, according to the reputation of the school system, the power of the president of the department community, to classify something important for five minutes, every Tuesday and Thursday. Why didn't you suggest that, say, our parents come to the open door? That it may not happen to you that, however, people come and ask – why there is no money, why there is no state, why can't pay for electricity, if they paid for the utility, and especially why electricity and subscription must pay for those "48 hours weddings" and other educational contents of this so-called. the public service of European Serbia, as if there was an American or Asian Serbia? Either Boza was wrong when he promised a very Schengen for the EU, because he didn't realize that someone actually offered him a white card for Ginis, or Tadic remembered the Marxist philosophy in which he was raised, so he demonstrates to us at the part of the principle of transitioning quantity to quality – 200 laws. What a quality! All this still doesn't matter, so one legal gromada, a member of the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Andreas Gross, assessed the need to improve the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, since the current does not allow Parliament to play its part. Gross said the mission of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is in Serbia as part of the monitoring process, to supplement a report on the state of democracy and human rights in Serbia, which was scheduled to take place on the agenda of the Strasbourg session last September, but was postponed for April. ''I think that what we have already cited in the debate on the report, the electoral system and Parliament's Rules of Procedure do not allow Parliament to fulfil its duty, to serve democracy in Serbia. This is why in the updated version of the report, we have focused heavily on the need to improve the Rules of Procedure, so that the minority has its own voice... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... but that the minority cannot block the majority, make the decisions needed to the country and move forward towards democracy and Europe. ''This only in the country of Serbia has, that the government is formed by some foreign states, some domestic tycoons, that the president of Serbia, at the same time, is a prime minister and a member of all possible councils, that he has imperial powers. With all that, maybe we should really put an end to this assembly... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... and leave a few of these former "retors" who know very well English, to rewrite those English laws, so at least we know who really is their master.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13688	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petar Jojic presented one piece of information in the previous exhibition, that in the English Parliament, parliamentarians fought against the dictatorship of the king 300 years ago and achieved fundamental parliamentary rights and that parliamentaryism has progressed since then. Of course, it's in England. There's a little different stuff going on here. We have the dictatorship of the King stronger than the Parliament of England. I am advocating a harsh violation of Members of 147 and, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and you, gentlemen of the People's MPs, who you will listen to, to read – the legislator, the committees responsible, and the Government are obliged to consider, before the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments submitted to the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments suggest that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. So, the Administrative and Legislative Committee and the Proposer had to, before the beginning of this session, consider the amendments, because we see that there are amendments, they told us that it is a single search, so you can't, however, see that there are amendments, and then say, we adopt these amendments, we reject these amendments, we reject them, we reject them, we reject them, we reject them, we reject them, we reject them, we reject them, we reject them. We received a paper stating that these six amendments, which were submitted by those who signed on the draft amending Rules of Procedure, were adopted, and these ten amendments, written by the opposition MPs, were not adopted. This Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, is not the worst and the most restrictive. There were worse ones in history. Remember Uganda, Go Amin Dad, Bokasa. However, they didn't even have a parliament, it seems to me it was called dictatorship there. If this principle continues to apply in this House, then I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what do we need the 141st member of the Rules of Procedure? Why couldn't only two members be – 1st King Boris is right, and 2, if King Boris is wrong, Article 1, and everything would be settled. I'm surprised you didn't think to put, say, all three green buttons on this parliamentary unit, so vote whatever you want, it'll always come out green. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure is not written in Parliament, it's not written in some parliamentary group, it looks like it was written in some institute, and it's like it was written by, say, the Institute of Security, the Union of the Institute of Security. I'm surprised that Mr. Micunović, as "Dad of Democracy", accepts that democracy is so harshly violated, but well, Mr. Micunovic is not... (President: Time. I end up in one sentence. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when these amendments are amended and the Rules of Procedure are opened, then the amendment debate will look like this – I only have 30 seconds to explain to you the amendment I submitted to the article, almost. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13690	People's MP, there's no breach of article 147. Please do not second-time compare the acts of the National Assembly to acts that are only known to you, whether they come from unions, institutes of any kind, and that you do not show the demeaning of acts that are in the procedure. This is not allowed for members of the Rules of Procedure to oblige us to conduct ourselves and in what we say. The MP says he didn't speak as a humiliation, which means you're treating the Rules of Procedure as a quality. You weren't talking about Uganda, MP, you were talking about the union of the Institute of Security. Please keep your knowledge to yourself and do not compare. People's MPs are getting that they don't have a union. I'm not going into the truth. Apparently, MP Momir Markovic knows whether they have a union or not. I don't know. National MP Dusan Mašić wants a word and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1). Excuse me, MP, I know your last name is Maric, but I'm reading it from the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13691	I accept your apology. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I believe that the members of the working body made up of this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure and the MPs who submitted this proposal to the assembly procedure, with individual solutions, in the most harsh way, have violated the dignity of the National Assembly, the dignity of all MPs, including their own dignity. I will refer to the solution relating to the length of the discussion. I really think that only someone who is not in good relations with common sense, someone who does not want good parliamentary democracy in Serbia, someone who does not want good to this assembly, someone whose own head serves only for air conditioning, and someone else's head for opinion, can suggest that the MP in the Serbian Parliament, in the highest legislative body, one legislative solution, one amendment explains for the longest two minutes. What can anyone say in two minutes? I believe that there is no one in the congregation minority or in the congregation majority who can go out for this pay phone and finds it possible in two minutes to explain anything, let alone a reasonable legal solution. I remind Serbian citizens that the current business code of the same people, the same experts who propose the current changes, is now in force. They claimed a few years ago that it would take some minimum time to defend their amendment for 15 minutes. Now these same people say that the maximum time it takes for that same job is two minutes. How is such a deviation possible? Such a derogation cannot be defended, explained by any reasonable, professional reasons. What's this about? This is about the assembly's efforts to silence the opposition in every way, to prevent the debate in the Assembly from turning the assembly into a voting machine. I apologize to the ruling majority for what I'm about to say, but the fact is that since the constitution of this House, they've been acting like a voting machine. The assembly majority, the management of the DS, the leadership of the Assembly, apparently strive to pass on the congregation minority, the opposition, to turn us into a congregation voting machine. We're not gonna let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13692	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. When the debate begins, or a single search, you will have the time available to your parliamentary group to qualify and comment on the proposals that are in the decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The content of your exposure did not explain any injury to the procedure in any part. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's what one of the greatest Serbians says, not only lawyers, but intellectuals at all, and I think these thoughts and how they can be applied in our situation – a country that rises above an individual as one of the superiors has the opportunity to force him to do what he would not want, so the state is referred to as an organized coercion, so the question arises – why does the state have the right to use force in its relations with individuals? The use of force is permitted only exceptionally, on a particularly legal basis. If the state is unable to demonstrate such a legal basis, its coercion on an individual will appear to be violence, organised injustice and, subsequently, its right to exist will be challenged. This is said by Slobodan Jovanovic, a century ago, that the force in relation to individuals can only be used if there is a legal basis for it. Mrs. Komic, and this morning I pointed out the fact that you are trying to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in one hiduciary way, from the bus, from the ambush, to the fraud, and I am not clear at all that, in addition to the 129 MPs you have on paper, that is the absolute majority, you cannot find two honest lawyers who will draw you what the course of the session should look like, so that you adopt the Rules of Procedure as the current Rules of Procedure requires. This morning I pointed out to you the fact that the President of the Administrative Committee, Mr Constantinović, was conscious or unconsciously trying to deceive the MPs and citizens, so he signed something called the report on the work of the Administrative Committee, which said that the session was held and that it was decided so at the session. The session, Mrs. Comic, has just begun. It's not finished. Out of the 10 points of the agenda, only one, the principle debate on amendments to the Rules of Procedure, has been absorbed. The session began with more than 10 minutes late. It was interrupted at five to ten. It lasted about 15 minutes effectively and it was purposely done to prevent the debate on what was actually the cause of the parliamentary crisis in Serbia, which is stealing the mandate. Point 9 of that agenda, which ended on the 34th session, is to consider the resignation of former SRS MPs, and then the ruling coalition came to an ingenious solution, not to discuss this point of the agenda at all, but to say – you know, the session of the National Assembly begins at 10 o'clock. We'll interrupt the session of the Administrative Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13694	National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13695	Article 79, Mrs Comic, Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, has been injured because the MPs, and the citizens who follow this transmission, have been deceived that the session was held. The session hasn't been held. The session just started, and that, from the 10 points of the agenda, only the first item of the agenda managed to be discussed. The resignations of former SRS MPs were not discussed at all. The cause of the parliamentary crisis is the theft of mandates. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. I'll get back to you. I don't know how you think you can bring the National Assembly into a legal state if you don't want to prevent the political violence that was promoted here in September of last year. One more thing, Mrs. Comic. King Milan was far greater, or more dangerous enemy of radicals than Boris Tadic, so we survived King Milan... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... So we survived Joseph Broz, and we survived many violent men and bloodsuckers. Believe me, we'll survive Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13696	There's no damage to article 79. The Committee, within the point, held a debate, made decisions and reportedly informed the Assembly, and so each committee does when it comes to agendas in principle and in particular, therefore, the law. It's something we can all see for ourselves. Of course, since we've been working in the congregation long enough. The rest of your exposure did not contribute to the explanation of the injury procedure, nor could you get the word, since you are talking about an injury procedure that, according to you, happened not now, when you wanted to talk about it, but several hours earlier, or, as you stated, at 9.45, so there are no injuries to Article 79. National MP Nikola Žutic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13697	Gentlemen, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Education. To the Serbian national majority, they often impose their will on members of minority groups and anti-Serbian NGOs, especially in science and culture. Foreign international staff are often at the prominent functions of individual universities, at private universities of questionable scientific, ideological and political goals. It is a dramatic case of the appearance of the private university "Union", especially the Faculty of Law of the same university, which was founded in 2001, under the name of the Faculty of Business Law. It was registered by the Ministry of Education and Sports on 1 November 2001. The Union's Law Faculty is ideologically and politically poisoning the youth with its concise anti-Serbian and anti-state interpretation of the legal and state history of the Serbian people. This university is making some kind of experimental concept of legal studies, which according to their speakers, '1998. In the year, several professors were formed in a political cleanup from Belgrade's state law school. The only dean of the university was Prof. Dr. Vladimir Vednelic, born in Croatia. He's one of the professors who's been removed into what's-his-name. cleaners. In 2005, the Faculty joined the University of Union in Belgrade and changed its name to the Law Faculty of the University of Union. The university's primary task is to prepare students to become leaders and leaders in doing legal work in state bodies, to build law and legal institutions in the state, they say. The graduate students will therefore be supervisors and interpret the new experimental law of the EU. They will Europeanise traditional Serbian law, which draws its roots from the Byzantine times of Emperor Justinian. The head of the experimental Faculty of Law "Union" is the dean of the Faculty, Prof. Dr. Vesna Rakić-Vodinlic, wife of First Dean Vladimir Vodalic. In her speech to the students of the freshmen, in October 2007, she demeans not only the traditional Serbian Law Faculty, but also the traditionalism and history of Serbian law in one best way. Already at the beginning of her speech, she is being brought down on the term "Brussels", which is a non-academic and primitive name, which comes from the People's Songs of the Wolf. Mrs. Dean is for a more up-to-date term "Justinian New", or "Newman". In his speech, Justin's legal institution, Mrs Rakic quickly forgets and highlights the epochial Bologna process of learning law, which takes place in the 11th century and dominates the 16th century. Today's regressive anti-nuclear and anti-enlighten Bologna model connects with, for the time being, a model Bologna legal school. Gentlemen, I now point out the defeating speech by Dean Rakic, which is a violation of Serbian law at the level of the primitive right of a poor country. First, it limits the legal tradition of the Serbian state. According to her, "it is voluntary for law to be studied since 1841, i.e. the establishment of the Face." (President: 3.30 minutes. I'm done. Finally, it concludes that serious law study only started in 1905. Since I don't have time, in the end, I ask the Minister of Education: how is it possible that this anti-national legal institution acts legally in the state of Serbia, an institution that destroys traditional Serbian legal science?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13698	Please strictly respect the procedure of the silent agreement and the invitation to the members of 225 and 226. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13699	Mrs. Komic, I just spoke to him and very precisely cited the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which I consider to have been injured. Now I'm calling for Article 27, because you've committed that injury. I didn't, apparently, explain it earlier, and in your answer you didn't say it would go to the vote, so I suggest that, at the same time as voting on what I asked for earlier, you put it to a vote and what I'm saying is that you have now committed an injury, that is, a moment ago. I just have to draw attention to you that I didn't say that those who have signed the Amendment on amendments and amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have no right to do so, I didn't say that those who have submitted amendments to the amendment to the amendment and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not have the right to do so, I just said that they have misused that right. Between violations of rights and abuse of rights, a thin line is like a border, because the consequences are the same. In one situation or another, something is done that is the opposite. You're probably not even obliged to understand. You practice your rhetorical abilities, you spin these regulations of the Rules of Procedure, you see to it that you interpret them as written, and you lose meaning for the essence and content of some norm. So, I remind the public, a group of people who have made a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly did so in such a way as to abuse this right, and then make another abuse, making amendments to their proposal, and thus completely amend something, and then here they convince us that in two minutes a parliamentary group can explain the amendment that applies, for example, to some division of the draft budget law, which concerns several billion dinars. That's the evolution of democracy. Remember, there used to be a condom against the cordon, and now we've come into the situation that in two minutes you won't get a warning if you say "live King Boris", "live Queen of Hope Kolundji", "lived National Assembly President", "lived Vice President of the National Assembly", which helps in such efficient work, and we beat ourselves in place. Where are your European laws, where is your European Rules of Procedure? Just to remind you that two years ago, a representative of the Council of Europe was here, otherwise, working in the EU Parliamentary Assembly, which considered our Rules of Procedure and found no significant shortcomings. To continue in this fine manner. I draw your attention, Mrs. Comic, that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia once considered that Rules of Procedure, such as Europeans, when you did it, and found that some of the provisions were contrary to the constitution, and I am sure it would be contrary to this constitution, and I ask you to put these two proposals to the vote in the day of the vote, and as far as your obligations are concerned... (President: 3.30 minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13700	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. I also explained the previous time, when you asked for the word to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that you said, and by looking at the stenogram, you can make sure that I am telling the truth, that the People's Parliament of Hope of Kolundji has hurt the Rules of Procedure. Such a sentence cannot be referred to a vote, as it must be stated which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. You have been given the word and now and again, in the explanation that at that time, I quote, the vote on that earlier, injured Rule 27, you did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured by the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. On this occasion, I would like to inform you that this cannot be put to the vote. Please, the next time you ask for a word, just specify which member of the Rules of Procedure has injured Hope Kolundji's letter and will be put to the vote, because it is a common obligation, both mine and yours. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I ask the MPs not to protest, showing impatience. The list of those who inform the secretary or me that they want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure is for both the secretary and the co-worker of the vice president. I beg your patience to come to your turn. Excuse me, MP, on hold and be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13701	Madam Vice President, I have recently asked the question, now I repeat it - asking the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for a notice, will the government put out of force a criminal rule on the fees and rewards of bankruptcy managers? I didn't get an answer, and I believe you'll agree with me, it's about the bankruptcy manager of Belgrade's Robing Houses, who, according to my knowledge, took on the name of the bankruptcy procedure in these stores four million euros. I can't get an answer to that question. Secondly, I asked the question, too, how many bankruptcy proceedings are involved in the famous Mr. Stevan Moldovan from Subotica, and was it true that the bankruptcy of Agroziv in Panchev should have paid him 650 thousand euros? Since this rule on the basics and criteria for determining the award for work and compensation for the costs of bankruptcy managers is very harmful and criminal, since the work of bankruptcy managers is paid out of bankruptcy, the work of bankruptcy managers must be regulated in another way – to pay for the daily living, not to be paid for by illegal, looting percentages. This rule, which was adopted by the competent ministry, was signed by Mladjan Dinkic, minister, and should be put out of force, because he is very harmful to those institutions, i.e. companies and firms where bankruptcy is conducted. I ask the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – will the government reduce ministries from 25 to 20, compared to other countries of Europe and outside Europe? Taking into account that Germany has established 16 ministries in its government, this is an extremely bulky machine for Serbia, and I think it should be reduced from 25 to 12. My question is and does the government consider reducing the number of agencies, funds, directorates and other bodies from 111 to at least 20 of these agencies because they are unnecessary? They are harmful and spend the money of taxpayers. I'm looking for another announcement, did the State Auditor, the DRI, get the building and the premises, and where are those rooms? If, after the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Auditing Institution, full-time posts have been carried out, i.e. State auditors and authorised auditors? (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. No way, Madam Vice President, we don't get these answers, I don't even know why. I can't explain why the government is ashamed, or the government doesn't have time to answer questions like this. Please forward these questions of mine to finally get a valid answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13702	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, reporting on the basis of members, I repeat, first 226, then 225. On 14 January 2009, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I asked in writing the question of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and this would be the case – how many grants were given from the Agricultural Development Fund in 2007 and 2008, to entities, names, names, etc.? Now you see the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management's notice. In the first paragraph, it says – the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not grant grants through the Agricultural Development Fund, or the Fund to encourage the development of agricultural production in the Republic. The second paragraph – we would like to note that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management provides grants. So there are no grants in the first paragraph in 2007 and 2008. If they really are not there, it should have been stated that there are no contracts, that no one has received them, not immediately, in the second paragraph, I repeat myself because of the citizens and because of registered agricultural holdings, says – I would like to point out that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management is providing grants, and explains – only according to the programme of measures for each year, individual regulations etc. And the brochure, written by the personal minister Dr. Sasa Dragin, is called – Agriculture Analysis in 2008, says 334 grants were given, of which 182 were unintendedly spent. I'm going to report back to this member because I gave the written form and asked the Ministry of Agriculture for an answer. It is simply that I suspect that this minister personally responded, rather than his service, in fact, deputies, assistants, etc., gave such inappropriate answers, where there is no way to get the data, beginning in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, which are subjects, persons, and what is the sum, which are contract numbers, etc. Therefore, I would really ask the ministries that, when MPs of this distinguished house ask parliamentary questions, they make sure that these are the questions asked by MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13704	People's MP, do you repeat your request to inform the same authority and organisation?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13705	I demand that the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management respond in detail, whether in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, grants were received, given that in his analysis, the brochures said that 334 were granted irrevocably... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... It didn't go on purpose. To decidently put the name, last name, district and which is the sum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13706	The word has been given by MP Dusan Maric, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13707	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for article 104. The Rules of Procedure and I repeat my position that the proposal in the congregation procedure has damaged the dignity of the National Assembly. At least what is expected of the MP who submits the amendment is to come out for this speaker and, for the sake of Serbian citizens, read the amendment and then explain the amendment. If these amendments to the Rules of Procedure are adopted, MPs will be prevented from explaining and submitting amendments. Now I'm going to show that on a practical case. Please don't stop my time. I will read one amendment submitted on the proposal for this decision and I claim that this amendment cannot be read in two minutes, let alone explain it, which would be normal. I am beginning to read: the presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of Art. 145th and 160th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we table an amendment to the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which reads - Article 2 is amended and reads: a new Chapter VIII A is added after Article 165, which reads: A special procedure for proposing and adopting European laws. 1. Proposal marked "SRB-EU". Article 165a – The procedure for proposing and adopting laws harmonising the legal order of the Republic of Serbia with the legal assets of the EU shall be governed by the specific rules laid down in this Chapter of the Rules of Procedure. Article 165b – The Government shall submit to the Committee on the Monitoring of the Stabilisation and Association Process (hereinafter referred to as: the Committee), quarterly, half-yearly and annual draft law plans, other acts and activities proposing the harmonisation of the legal order with EU legal assets (hereinafter referred to as SRB-EU). The government also proposes framework terms for holding special sessions, which exclusively discuss proposals for laws and other acts proposing the harmonisation of the legal order with EU legal assets. Article 165v – The Committee gives its opinion and suggestions on the delivery plan and directs them to the Government, the President of the National Assembly and the People's MPs. After considering the opinions and suggestions delivered, the Government shall submit to the Committee the final draft law, other acts and activities with the SRB-EU designation. In conclusion, the Committee adopts a billing plan and other SRB-EU acts and publishes it, through the National Assembly, in the Official Messenger. I apologize, since my time is up, I have asked the chairman not to stop my time, for the sake of the Serbian citizens, I would only like to say the following. This amendment was submitted to the proposed decision by the LDP parliamentary group and I only read a third of the amendments. I'm saying, I guess it would be logical to read the amendment from this pay phone and explain it afterwards. As you can see, there's no time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13708	National MP, there is no breach of Article 104, and you did not explain the breach of the procedure in the content of your exposure. The way and style to explain the amendment cannot be associated with Article 104. The debate on how long and how long it has not begun, so you will have the opportunity to prove that this is not a good solution, or a good proposal, when the debate begins and a unique review of the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedures. This is on the verge of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because there's no injury to the procedure. Please don't do this, if we already respect the silent arrangements on how to apply the current Rules of Procedure. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the morning part of the session, we discussed the need for the Administrative Committee to take a position, namely to report on the amendments that have been submitted, and before that, I think Mr Dragan Todorovic said that the president of the ZES Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, said that MPs, in some media, would be able to change the Rules of Procedure. Here's what we got. We have received one group of amendments to each member of the amending Rules of Procedure and these amendments have been adopted on the Administrative Committee. If Hope Kolundji were here by chance, she'd probably let us know that she, as an authorised representative, or applicant, accepts these amendments, but while she's gone, we can't know that. What's my suggestion? Since six DS MPs were adopted, and six LDP amendments were adopted, and, interestingly, none of them were accepted, I tried before, and my colleague Batic helped me to make these amendments that were accepted by the Administrative Committee and submitted by the Assembly majority, and that text of the Rules of Procedure, or amendments, which we had received, to do something that we could now discuss. Believe me, that's not possible. I suggest that the Administrative Board, along with Mrs. Hope Kolundji, make a consolidated text, now, of a new proposal. If we have, say, two amendments and both are accepted, it says - in Article 2 at the end of Article 4, the point is deleted and the words are added, that I am not now reading the words, the second, also, in Article 2 paragraph 4, at the end of the text, the point is replaced by the comma and the words are added... But other words, what is the text of that Article 2? If there's a hero's lawyer to come out and explain to us what that Article 2 is now, Article 4, then, really, it's an honor. So, this much indemnity and irresponsibility just to please someone, it's really not right and it's unacceptable. Don't turn the story on your guidebook, don't turn your attention. I see, and you've been making statements to the press that the MPs here again, I don't know what, are being abused. We're just trying to get the MPs... I don't believe any of you were getting involved in this, and I intend to do a consolidated text after this session tonight, so tomorrow I'm going to read to you, to see what this miracle of a proposal looks like, which no one lives will be able to apply, Mrs. Komic, not even you, as a virtuoso in the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13710	The proposal is neither in accordance with the Rules of Procedure nor possible. The Administrative Committee has spoken of the amendments. There's no way to create any kind of purified text. The presence of the promoter at this time of the session is not mandatory because the debate in the particulars search is not ongoing. The debate under way is a debate which is used by the capacity of Article 100(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that MPs report that there is a breach of procedure. This is not a discussion of a single search, nor of amendments, nor of a legislator, or of a proposing representative, in this case, has a business obligation to listen to what, according to the MPs who seek a word under Article 100, is a violation of the procedures they may, and do not have to do with the draft act. This proposal of yours is, we will agree, impossible, because so far it is only amendments that the Administrative Committee considers can be accepted and the will of the proposing representatives is sought and, if that will remains, 126 votes are required in the day for the vote. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic is not here. Therefore, MP Nikola Savic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225th and 226th, and I'm asking a parliamentary question to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13712	People's MP, I have warned several times that you cannot ask a parliamentary question during this session. Thank you. Please return to your seat. People's MPs are getting that... The MP came out, got a word based on Article 100(1) and said he was calling for an article. 225th and 226th and he's asking a parliamentary question. It can't. We have determined that mutually silent use and abuse of members of 225 and 226 must be respected on both sides. Please return to your seat. People's MPs are getting that criminal measures could have been imposed. Penalties are unpopular in every parliament and this is not a violation of that kind, and I ask you not to help me in this way, by throwing me out of office. National MP Gordana Milosavljevic-Paunovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 1001(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226, and I'm asking for a notice and an explanation from the competent minister of sports and youth. Does the ministry mentioned have a national strategy for preventing juvenile delinquency, which has been a burning problem in the state of Serbia since 2000? We witness every day that children kill and kill children. These days, both in Novi Sad and in Kragujevac, two tragedies occurred, one suffered by a minor, who was also killed by minors in the Kingdom, and in Novi Sad he was in a coma boy who was also killed by minors. The Serbian Radical Party has responsibility for Serbia's future. They will always fight that our children do not go astray and for the challenges of modern society, drugs, alcohol, prostitution, because in its programme there is a healthy family for healthy growth, with the development of positive ambitions and high moral values in children and youth. The most endangered category of the population in Serbia is children. From about two million children in Serbia to 18 years old, nearly a third lives in poverty. These kids don't even have a decent roof over their heads, and they miss the basic existential good. Every tenth child is malnourished. Care for children and their basic development needs leads only to one direction, and this is a potential juvenile delinquency. At a time of economic crisis and social misery, this problem will be getting bigger and harder. What future awaits Serbia today with 500,000 hungry children and youth, growing without adequate moral incentive? Obviously, the governing structure today doesn't take care enough of children at all levels. When is Serbia going to get a national strategy to fight drug abuse already? Narcomania is one of the biggest risk factors in the fight against juvenile delinquency. If we fight adequately against drug abuse, we'll also fight a juvenile delinquency. We ask that these questions be properly explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13714	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13715	Mrs. Komic, the public is already familiar, I refer to Article 27. I am sure that you have violated that provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, at the same time, just to inform you that in my previous reports, I have also called for the appropriate infringements of the Rules of Procedure, and for the first time in my address I said that it was Members 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, you couldn't accept it, nor did you want it, but you'll see it all in a stenogram, because I have no intention of repeating it. You will allow the National Assembly to vote, as you will allow this injury, which I now intend to talk about, to be put to the vote before the MPs of the National Assembly. We've got a double archin here. If the amendment is filed by someone from the opposition, then the DS people dispute the right to submit the amendment to a man, and it is said – what are these amendments "expunged"? Of course you need to erase all of this. How do you bring this into something that would be normal? That's impossible. How would someone cooperate in shutting down parliamentaryism in Serbia and promoting'shut democracy'? It's good here if you keep your mouth shut. You probably got both NATO and the Americans' consent, and what I've been trying to do a few times, it's probably necessary to do an investigation, see where this motion was written. This motion for a decision was written at the Institute of Security. Why at the Institute of Security? Because there's a center, a core of all the bad things that are happening to Serbia. We're not allowed to discuss it. Of course, people, look at the Second Channel, follow the National Assembly sessions, sometimes you like it, sometimes you don't like it, but here you hear the truth; it's not in the paper, it's not in the media, it's all yellow. You see, the jaundice caught all of Serbia. Wherever you turn, everything is yellow – yellow press, yellow party in power. Of course, you make sure that this session doesn't look anything like it, because there's no proposing, there's no amendment, they went to the Institute for additional instructions. After all, if you were, as young as they say, "in" and listened to groups "357" and "Trula Coalition", it would be much clearer to you. Young people, listen to them, it's our avant-garde.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13716	National MP, in your first report on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, you stated at the beginning of Articles 27, 103 and 104, in the second reporting of Article 27 and now - Article 27; if you had not done so, you would not have been able to get the word. My explanation in the first and second cases was that you did not give an explanation for the injury to the procedure. And the first and second announcements, for this third one, contained a sentence, with insight into the stenogram, as well as that the National Assembly stated that the hope of the Colundge had broken the Rules of Procedure. I just asked you to show me which member of the Rules of Procedure. Both the first and the second, and unfortunately, there was a third time left, to say which member of the Rules of Procedure. We'll vote on it, it's our joint obligation in the voting day. The presence of the motionor in this part of the session, as well as the presence of the applicants for the amendments, is not prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, because we have not started the debate on the search in particular. The debate is going on all day long because MPs have the right to use Article 100 and to speak about what they consider to be a violation of the procedure. People's MP Milorad Krstin wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I report first, under Article 226, and then 225. It's again a parliamentary issue I filed on January 14th... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13718	People's MP, I warned MP Nikola Savic, in three previous cases I warned all MPs about the use and abuse of the article. In 225 and 226, there is a silent agreement, which will be respected by the chairman as long as he is respected by the MPs. You have no more words. Please return to your seat. Under Article 225, you cannot ask parliamentary questions during this session. National MP, you can see from your insight into the stenogram that you have said - I have asked parliamentary questions. I listen very carefully to everyone, because it is my obligation, and by direct insight into the stenogram you can see that you have said – a parliamentary question. No, not the Messenger of the people. Now you are entering a breach of Article 104 and you are giving the basis for applying the plan 106, on speaking out, and I ask you to concentrate when you are asking to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that, under the agreement we have, we use and abuse art. 225 and 226. During today's work, I think I've been very clear how this mutual agreement will be in place. The moment one of the parties violates that agreement, I'm not obliged to respect it either. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13719	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have recently asked one parliamentary question and asked for a notice, so I am reporting again, in terms of the provisions of the article. In 225 and 226, and I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent resolution ministry to get a notice – what goods, food, imports of Serbia from abroad, and that these goods are also produced in the Republic of Serbia? Next, I ask for a notice – what is the status of Sugar in Covin, since it is closed, does it not work? What is the status of state agricultural land in the municipality of Kovin, in the populated towns of Skoranovac, Pločica, Mramorak, Bavanište, Deliblato, Guy, Dubovac, Šumarac, Beli Breg, Mali Bavanište? What is the status of state agricultural land in the municipalities of Alibunar, White Church, Vršac, Opovo, Kovačica? For Alibunar especially, for the inhabited cities of Alibunar, Karlovac, Seleuš, Vladimirovac, Lokve, Janoshik, Nikonics, Vekerle, Doberica? Since I come from Southbanat County, allow me to ask these questions and ask for information, when it comes to the municipalities of Kovačica, for the inhabited towns of Kovačica, Samoš, Uzdin, Padino, Idvor, Debeljač, Crepaja, Putnikovo. Next – when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia prevent profits and forwarders, speculators destroying the cities through Vojvodina and not paying anyone toll? Namely, thousands of freighters and transporters passing through Serbia speculate and rule out Kovin and Smederev and move to the territory of the northern Serbian province, AP Vojvodina, and do not pay anyone that toll from Smederev to the state border to Hungary, Croatia and other countries to northern and western Europe. There are hundreds of millions of dinars, and no one pays, because speculators and profiteers are running away and do not use this section of highway from the entrances from Turkey, Bulgaria and other countries, towards the west, and have been breaking roads in Vojvodina for years, and are not paying anyone toll. Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia make such a decision and order that the tax to pass through Serbia and its roads is paid at the entrance to the country of the Republic of Serbia, or will the payment ramp be opened in Smederevo or Kovin and thus charge from these speculators who do not pay and destroy roads in the Republic of Serbia? It's a big shame, at first sight. Many do not know, but those who live in Vojvodina know, tens of thousands of these transporters and tows pass through the territory of Kovin, Pancheva, Zrenjanina, Kovačica, Opova, not to count, through Vojvodina, and that the state is damaging. It's the fault of the competent, resolute ministry and Customs, which does not charge, but rewards those who enter in that way and destroy the roads, and pay nothing, while harm is borne by the citizens... (President: Time. There are countless car accidents that cause and no one reacts. I asked that question and last year... (President: four minutes and 30 seconds. I apologize and thank you. I asked questions, but there's no answer. I ask for concrete notice - whether the Serbian government will open a payment ramp with Covin, thus devoting the profiteers to avoid paying. Only Serbia can't do that, and all other countries do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13720	You spoke for five minutes. The word has a proposaler's representative, Mrs. Hope Kolundji. At any moment, the priority shall be given by the proposing representative to all others, in accordance with Article 93(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13721	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of 128 MPs, I am authorised to explain the reasons and the way in which the decision on amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been proposed. The need to change the rules of procedure has been seen in previous meetings and a working group has been formed in the previous assembly to draft a new Serbian Parliament's rules of procedure and a draft law on the National Assembly. We participated in the work of these working bodies with a full desire to do at least two things. The first was to achieve the highest degree of consent. I am not one of those who believes that we can achieve a general agreement on certain matters, unfortunately, still in this House, not in the situation in which we are currently in place, but I believe that it is possible to achieve a greater degree of agreement on matters concerning the National Assembly, the rules of procedure, above all, what is defined by law, which is the position of the institution of the National Assembly. These two working groups have also been innovative in this Parliament's assembly and, based on the work so far, we can conclude a few things. First, some parliamentary groups did not even want to participate in the work of these working groups, which proves that they do not want to participate in creating consensus on these issues. On the other hand, it has been shown that individual parliamentary groups, compared to the same solutions, have a different view, depending on whether they are currently the ruling majority or opposition minority. There has been no consistent relationship with solutions that can be said to have been considered from both angles, something that is acceptable for some parliamentary groups. At the same time, it is obvious that the work of these working groups is taking too long. It may also take so much time to achieve the highest degree of consent. On the other hand, this still raises the question – what time is it possible for these working groups to establish a proposal on which consensus could be reached and which could be delivered to the National Assembly? By making a cut of what the working groups have done and where they have arrived, it is clear that this process will continue, it is clear that there is much more work to be done, much more goodwill and willingness to bring these acts forward, it is also clear that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, in the whole of the Rules of Procedure, is impossible to pass unless previously passed a law on the National Assembly. The development of institutions and the construction of institutions, the passage of these institutions through certain phases, necessarily impose and the need to review rules that apply within these institutions, the need to seek solutions that would eliminate, possible, obstacles to the development of institutions, perfect them and ultimately protect the integrity of the institution. Indeed, I believe that all 250 MPs, no matter how we understand it, want to protect the integrity of the National Assembly. We have come from the need to make the work of this assembly more rational and efficient from the point of view of resource spending, and these are human and time resources, starting with the fact that Serbia's interest, regardless of the political differences in the objectives we set, is to bring its legal system into line with the values and systems of modern democratic European countries. I think we argue about what any of us see as that value and as the best solution, but I believe that we do not dispute that it is important for Serbia. Serbia is a transition country, the country that is slowest in its reforms, the country that has least strayed on its way to, as far as we are concerned, an extremely important goal, which is Serbia's European integration. Serbia is a country that does not show itself enough internal readiness to achieve these goals. At the same time, bringing legal order into line with EU standards also means creating a legal framework for what we, for all of us, believe it is completely undeniable, and this is the inflow of foreign investment as a basic assumption that this country can develop economically and progress, ultimately, to what is most important for all, and that is to improve the safety and standards of citizens. This brings us to Parliament as a key point in achieving these objectives. The possibility of Parliament being effective and in the best possible way discussing the laws and affecting the adoption of better-quality laws, within deadlines which, unfortunately because of the enormous time lost, are short, is what we have come from, seeking the causes of the dispute and the blockade of Parliament, seeking solutions that will enable it to be more effective, on the one hand, and on the other hand, not to deny any parliamentary right, in particular to deny any right of opposition. That is why we have come from trying to define those procedural things that were possible for abuses or different interpretations by MPs, or at some point have been used as an opportunity to completely block work and, by laying down demands, to actually lead a political life which is essentially not a reflection of democratic society. In our proposal, we have defined that we are changing Article 100, which is extremely important to be clearly specified, because it should enable the achievement of the basic democratic principle, which implies that the matter of procedure is an important issue of achieving democracy, but also, if this procedure is not clearly defined, it is possible that, by misusing and distorting what was the intention of the one who established those rules, Parliament's role will lead to complete absurdity and distortion. We have come from a few basic things that we wanted to achieve with these small amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which we think are really necessary now, in order to create conditions for this Parliament to work normally, to achieve its basic functions. We came from the fact that, according to the Constitution, the Assembly is a legislative body, a body that controls the work of the government, executive authorities, and a representative body. Then we tried to, with the changes we've made, leave complete space for the full extent of all these important roles this Parliament has, and just try to eliminate what is the abuse of rights and the distortion of rights. In Article 100, you've all seen what this act looks like, I don't want to read the provisions, what we wanted is to clearly specify what a breach of procedure is, and what is not a breach of procedure. So, only what is an injury procedure gives the right to the MP that, at the time of the injury, he has the right to report and request that the injury be removed. At the same time, what we wanted to change was the current solution in the Rules of Procedure concerning the debate on amendments. Indeed, by analyzing all the rules of procedure of all parliaments, we have found nowhere a solution that would be at least similar to what we now have in the Rules of Procedure. The point of the debate in particular is that MPs have the right to the law on the agenda and whose proposal is being corrected by amendments. It is logical that amendments, primarily, have the right to discuss those who have submitted the amendment, but we have come from the fact that it is important to allow other MPs to talk about amendments that they consider important to say, and not the amendments they have submitted. The solution that we have offered here is the solution that the Working Group has come up with for the making of Rules of Procedure in the last term. We tried to make a cumulative time for amendments, so there is a total time for discussion on amendments, which is the same as the time of debate in principle; there is also a special time for the heads, or authorized representatives of parliamentary groups, and there is a special time for the applicant of the amendment. That is why we have not accepted some of the amendments because we believe that the solution we have offered is more in spirit, to say, greater space for opposition MPs, in sufficient time, to express their views on the laws and amendments they have submitted. What has also been the subject of our intervention is that this proposal found that once a month the government must sit in Parliament and corresponds to the MPs. Whether it is a regular or extraordinary session, the government comes to Parliament every Thursday, last in the month, and answers the MPs to all the issues they consider important. In an extraordinary session, we have left the possibility that the agenda promoter may schedule parliamentary issues beyond this time limit. What's one of the interventions is members of 225 and 226. We have tried here to define, not at all, the right of the MP to be informed, informed, etc., what that means in relation to the session itself and the debate that takes place on the agenda. I think that there, too, has not been a threat to any rights, except that we have removed one practice that misread the provisions of the Rules of Procedures to which MPs have often called. Now, just for a moment, I would like to explain the amendments that have been tabled and, on behalf of the promoter, the position of the amendment promoter. The MPs of the LDP submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. This amendment differs from the proposed text in that in our text we suggest that the MP cannot point to a breach in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, that is, the chairman, which has already been pointed out. So, with our proposal, we are trying to say that it is not the point of pointing to a breach of procedure that 100 MPs will report and talk about the same injury to the Rules of Procedure, but the purpose of pointing to a breach of the procedure is that the MP will be able, immediately after the injury done, to point to the President or to the chairman of the infringement of the procedure. At the same time, the amendment submitted by the LDP MPs, in relation to the proposal that we have submitted, erases the part where we say that the MP has the right, following an explanation by the chairman or president of the National Assembly, to suit him whether or not he is injured by the Rules of Procedure, if he answers that he considers that he is not injured by the Rules of Procedure, to come out and ask that, in the day for the vote, the National Assembly be made known. I think the solution we've made is more acceptable than the amendment and contains greater rights. A new position is added to Article 1st, proposed by National MP Dr Janko Veselinović. This amendment is intended to, if the MP abuses his right to receive a word of order, on the basis of the right to advertise an infringement of the procedure, and if the chairman or president gives notice to that MP, as obvious evidence that he has violated the Rules of Procedure and misused that right, that time that the MP used the accounts in the total time that the MP has at his disposal. We think that this is a rational amendment and that it can be accepted, because it in some way obliges the MPs to essentially implement matters of harm procedures, to make sure that we do not make decisions through infringements which, in turn, would be, to say, phellerical, because through the injured procedure, we would come to decisions. On Article 1st paragraph 8, MP Otto Kishmarton submitted an amendment requesting that in writing he address the President for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or that, immediately after the opening of the search, he would come forward for a word, if, not at the session, but between sessions, the injured Rules of Procedure. We have regulated this issue in a way that seems better to us, because we have said that, if, between the two sessions, the MP has come to the conclusion that a procedure has been injured, he gives the President of the National Assembly a written statement on where and how the procedure has been violated, and the President of the National Assembly is obliged to respond at the beginning of the session to the MP and, if the MP is not satisfied, he has the right to ask the Assembly to make a statement. So we think that the solution that we have proposed is better than the solutions proposed by this amendment. National MP Natasa Vuckovic has submitted an amendment to conduct a legal-language redistribution. Instead of "from the previous position", it is replaced by the words "from attitude 8.". I think it should be accepted and it's not disputed. The LDP has proposed amendments relating to members who are not subject to this decision. Unfortunately, we of these amendments, for these reasons, cannot accept. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic and asked for Article 1 to be changed, proposing that the search be limited to one day in particular. Their proposal, therefore, is for the examination of the details of the law on the agenda to be concluded on the end of that working day, and the amendments which have not arrived to be discussed at the session are transferred to the committee responsible and the debate on them ends there. We think that what we have proposed is incomparably more time to the MPs, because it's five hours plus 15 minutes per boss, or authorized representative, plus every applicant of the amendment for two minutes. If they're already complaining that what we're trying to do is restrictively, then this amendment, in our sense, is more restrictive and we think that, in that sense, it's a better proposal that we're proposing. For us, it is acceptable to propose MP Željko Ivanji, who, apart from being a language and legal correcter of the text, speaks about it, in the debate in particular, if a united search is conducted in principle, is also being conducted in the debate in particular. We believe that this is a rationalisation of time, that it does not deny the right of the MPs to participate in the debate and to say everything they think is important to say. People's MPs Đura Muchenski and Pavel Marchok have submitted an amendment to Article 2(4) that regulates the discussion in particular, and refers to a debate held by the applicants of the amendments, so each applicant of the amendment for two minutes, that the total time of that part of the debate takes 10 hours. When we calculated how much the amendment is, it is, by one act, more than 300 amendments and we think that it is enough time to explain all the amendments that are submitted to the draft laws. That is why we believe that this amendment can be acceptable. On Article 2, paragraph 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. He suggests that the debate for amendment applicants be five minutes. I think two minutes is enough, but we still have time to see which time would be, in a way, optimal. I really think that, besides all that time, two minutes is more than enough. On Article 2, paragraph 5, the amendment was tabled by Parliament member Jelena Budimirovic. She asks that, if one amendment together has submitted several MPs, the right to explain this amendment on behalf of the applicant has only one of the signed MPs, and for a period of five minutes. So the purpose of this amendment is also to extend time to the applicants of the amendments. LDP MPs submitted a whole set of lawmakers introducing a new body of the Serbian Parliament, which would be in charge of harmonising the law with European legislation, i.e. by meeting the conditions on Serbia's path to the EU. We also spoke with LDP representatives when making up this proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. What is the problem, is that this fundamentally changes and the current Rules of Procedure, and this is the idea that we believe should be included in the work group and found a way to be integrated into the comprehensive Rules of Procedure, because, in the way it is now proposed, it is impossible. This fundamentally changes the way the Assembly works, relations with the Government, and touches many members that we now have neither been able to, nor have a legal basis to embrace. In that sense, we agree and think that we need to find the best possible solutions and a way to adopt all the laws that are on our European map as soon as possible. So I think it's very important that the task force has this in mind and that we take this proposal into account. The amendments were submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pesic and Nenad Milic. It is their request that parliamentary issues be asked to the government every week. So four times a month, every week. I'm not sure we can consider this. We are ready that the more often the government comes and answers the questions of the MPs. Maybe we can see if this can be changed by some kind of technical editorial and it's twice a month, so we can solve it that way. So, we are interested, and it is very important for us to fully achieve Parliament's representative role, that the government comes before parliamentarians and answers all their questions, but the question remains whether at this point we are able to accept this, or whether we should see how we can adapt it, so that we can accept some version of it. The amendment of the National MP Natasha Vuckovic to Article 4 paragraph 2 is, in fact, a legal-language clarification and in that sense it is undeniable and it is quite acceptable for us. On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. He asks with his amendment that every day, before the beginning of the session, MPs have the right to ask questions, to open some topics. With our proposal, we've defined it in two days. The bottom line of this proposal is that it's done every day. So far, I don't have the consent of all the promoters to accept this. I think we can see if there's room to talk about it. On Article 6, MP Milan Knezevic submitted the amendment. He's asking to delete attitude one. I must say that I do not know exactly what this means, because he says that it is contrary to the proposed amendment of Article 199, given that MPs' questions and requests for information could be characterised as the same. I don't think there's any doubt whether the parliamentary questions and the rights of the MPs to be informed are the same. I think we've defined that clearly enough and there's no need to define it specifically. On 6th century 2, 3rd and 4th, the National MP Natasa Vukkovic has submitted an amendment defining that the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise his rights, which is the case. 225 and 226, where it is explicitly stated that this does not apply to the sitting itself, but that the issue can also be achieved at the sitting itself, for up to five minutes. So, every morning, basically, there's time and space to ask and some question, start some current topic, or look for an emergency session, etc. I think that's acceptable. On Article 6(3), the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. It's about being asked here to have this oral address tied up for Tuesday and Thursday, only in two days. We have one solution in the text of the amendment that is acceptable to us, too, up to five minutes. Since the amendment is comprehensive, I think it is better to accept the amendment of the National MP Natasha Vukkovic. I want to thank you for your attention, and I believe that if we could put other things aside and just talk about what's ahead of us, we wouldn't have a dilemma that nothing that existed as a right has been revised. So we just tried to make what turned out to be a distasteful practice compared to the Rules of Procedure fix. We only tried, if possible, not to prevent the discussion of the laws, but to prevent the discussion of the laws from happening without everything else being a topic in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13722	I would like to thank the committee's representatives, Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia. Mr. Velimir Ilic, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13723	President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been arguing all day, talking, and now we've heard that we want the opposition to get better. It says here, we heard the head of the ruling coalition, that we from the opposition would be much better off with the changes of the Rules of Procedure. We're not asking to get better. We're asking for Serbia to be better. We didn't come here on a field trip, so we'd be better off, having fun and having a night-and-day discussion and changing things. You know what, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I'd like to find out which mind and smart head of your ranks she came up with? If this were good, you'd think of someone a lot sooner, if they could change in the Rules of Procedure what doesn't suit you, change, reduce, shorten. How are you not ashamed to offer two minutes for the amendment? There was a man coming out here, some amendment can't be read in two minutes. You need to explain one serious matter important to this country in two minutes. I can't figure it out, that's impossible. Therefore, you want and just repeat -- to make it better, European Serbia, European Serbia, European laws. Now I would like to ask you one question, is one single European law waiting to enter Parliament, i.e. He can't come because we're not effective? None of your only laws, European law, are waiting in Parliament. You can't agree with each other or with your Europe. No, there's something wrong with you. Therefore, do not distract the people, Serbian citizens, that, for God's sake, some European, important laws are waiting. No one's waiting. You have environmental laws proposed, and they're not complicated and they haven't passed the government. You can't make a deal. You're returning the excise duty law to Parliament again because you couldn't agree and agree with yourself. You have the Statute of the Duke, you don't know where you're going or what you're going to do with it. If you don't vote him, the government falls to you, if you vote him, you lose your electoral body. Now you don't know where you're going or what you're going to do, and you're in a tight circuit. Canac just lurks and waits. These friends of yours, they're all lurking and waiting, and you don't know where you're going and what you're going to do, because some of you won't support that law, because it's extremely bad. He's anti-constitutional, you know it very well, and in the Constitutional Court he'll fall. So now it suits you, for God's sake, to get away with some obstruction - we can't go to Europe quickly. It is not true, there is no law that you have brought, that has entered Parliament's procedure. Sit down, settle down, clear up whatever you want, wherever you take this Serbia. Answer some questions. The government is coming, you say, to Parliament. We asked you a simple question – who bought the two billion euros in foreign exchange reserves you sold? Who did you sell it to? Whose decision? How was it bought? In what way? How's the price set? Where are the dinars? It's somewhere, gentlemen, over 150 to 160 billion dinars. Where's the money? That's how much the Horgos-Pozega highway costs, completely. (President: Time. Who gave you the order to spend that money? Was that in Parliament? Who decides? Has the National Bank of Serbia filed a report on the work in this House? It's not, ever. So, clear up what you want, so we can talk very seriously here and don't distract Serbia anymore. You don't know where you're going or what you're going to do. You can't bring one law here. That's why you don't know what to do. It's best if you call the election because you don't have another option. You'll get into a situation where the people will drive you with sticks. Leave with dignity, like men. (President: Time. You've ruined everything, Fiat, Mercedes, Folkswagen... This one in Kragujevac is building an airport now. The other day I'm watching TV, a man is building an airport for heavy planes. You're not normal. You think we're some little kids here... (President: Speak for more than five minutes. I'm sorry, Mr President, it's a much stronger topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13724	The word is Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13725	At the moment I laughed, Mr. Ilic, but it is indeed sad, especially because tens of thousands of my citizens in Kragujevac are now hungry, and their children, and unfortunately many of them believed in the deception of Veroljub Stevanović and G17 days on 11 May. Now they see where they are. However, I am speaking to you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Madam President, I'm advertising Article 136. Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, it is a favorite member of Mr Krasic, because he has taught us approximately that we are always looking for when you are wrong, when you create conditions for an act to be found in the congregation procedure, so is this decision, which, Mrs Kolundzhija, is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps it is with the Constitution of another country, perhaps with the constitution of the country from which Mr Andreas Gross came yesterday, or his colleague, because he has just insisted and potentiated, probably in the conversation and with you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to change the Rules of Procedure urgently, which is otherwise in the report of the monitoring committee. Not only that, but to change the Constitution of our country, the way the MPs are elected. As he told you yesterday in the talks, the Constitution of our country is not democratic, and I tried to convince the gentleman in question, because he was in charge of monitoring the application of all the regulations of the Member States of the Council of Europe, that the widest possible consensus was brought, that it was and what a great public debate was, in a high percentage, confirmed in a referendum by Serbian citizens. Now you, Mrs. Kolundjia, have put Mr. Gross's advice in the assembly procedure this decision, which violates Article 5. The Constitution. Namely, Article 5. The constitution, Mrs. Kolundzija, says, and to refer to what you just said, that, as a state of Serbia, in a work that talks about political parties, we have the role of political parties in democratically forming the political will of citizens, if the will of citizens is democratically shaped in the elections. It's also a violation of Article 99. The constitution, item 1, or 2 which speaks of the control of the legislative authority over the executive authority, because the Serbian Parliament, or the legislative authority, is the only place where the opposition can act. Then, please explain to me, Mrs. Kolundjia, how do you think this will survive in the Constitutional Court, when you are adjudicating the rights of all the MPs in the Assembly, except for the president of the parliamentary groups? If you say that, according to an amended member of the Rules of Procedure, we are directly asking questions at a session, you let this go by letter, we cannot, as MPs chosen by the will of the citizens, by a member of the Constitution, directly control what is our job, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that we have a control function over executive power, if we are asking a question from the authority of individual authorities, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia by written means and waiting for an answer within 15 days. On the other hand, it is impossible, Mrs Kolundzija, to say, to suspend the will of the citizens and the political party, that if one of the MPs, for example, from your parliamentary group, has an objection to the procedure and violation of the Rules of Procedure, and it advertises by Article 100, that it cannot do so by a Serbian radical. We're not the same, we're completely different. Unlike you, it is obvious that we have been working on this, starting with the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who was the first elected radical in the 1991 assembly council, to this day, to expand democratic processes and try to convince you that the role of the people's representatives is because citizens have transferred part of their sovereignty to us, to protect them, to use the opportunity, the speaker, to express what they are asking of us. You also suspend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but I understand everything, because yesterday, the one who gives you orders, said that the Serbian Constitution is not good. Thank you and forgive me, Madam President, for exceeding my time, for one part quoting two members of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13726	Mr. Gross didn't comment on the Constitution in his conversation with me, the truth works. National MP Milan M. Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13727	Dear People's MPs, by art. 225th and 226th, requesting notice from the government and the competent ministries. It's about the concerns of my fellow producers and raspberries processors. I'm from the municipality of Arilla. You all know that this municipality is small, but it is widely known for the production of raspberries, not only of Ariel, but also of neighbouring municipalities, Ivanjica, Požega, Kosjerić, Lucani, etc. I'll give you some exact data. In the last year, in 2008, from the municipality of Arilla, I'm talking only about the municipality of Arilla, 12 million and 200 thousand kilos of raspberries were exported. It ranks the municipality of Arilla first on the issue of raspberries exports, i.e. it participates with 8.5% in exports from Serbia's territory. Last year, 15 million kilos of raspberries were bought. Since exports last year, the inflow was 32m euros, and of which 1% was imported, partly for machines and equipment for the processing of raspberries. On the territory of the municipality there are 50 larger or smaller freezers dealing with the purchase, processing and export of frozen fruit. There's about 800 workers employed there. During the campaign, 10,000 workers were employed in the municipality of Arilla. Respecting the global crisis, as well as how it went in this year, the raspberries exporters were exporting at the prices at which they were buying them, the raspberries producers are worried and asking the government for a notice – what does it intend not to do to get into a situation, and now it is time for the producers to know it, that our raspberries are scattered in the streets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13728	Mr. Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13729	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the populated town of Ivanovo, the municipality of Panchevo, request a notice, in the sense of the provisions of the article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, what is the status of the Agricultural Enterprise "Dunav" DOO Ivanovo? Namely, this company was privatized, according to the information from the letter I received from the citizens of Ivanov. This company has close to 400 ha of agricultural land...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13730	Mr. Jojic, you have advertised the Rules of Procedure and are now explaining something that is not related to the agenda or to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that disturbs the work of the National Assembly regarding the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13731	Please, I'm asking for a notice. Whether or not I can get it, in the sense of the provisions of the Article. 225 and 226. I did not come out of the context of the subject and of the Rules of Procedure, I am just protecting and defending the current Rules of Procedure, so please allow me to ask for a notice – what is the status of this agricultural land and is it true that Cvjetić Daniela from Belgrade first bought this land and is it true that a foreign citizen, from Slovenia, Lavš Igor became the owner or not? This is the "Consulting KB" Belgrade, Street of Uncle Ljubina 20. Let's see if by law he could buy state land and own a foreign citizen. If so, I ask the competent Ministry of Agriculture to inform me, because the citizen of the populated town of Ivanovo is asking on what basis this stranger could buy state-owned agricultural land and who allowed him to initiate the appropriate procedure? I'm asking for a notice, because we need to know, citizens are asking, Madam President, both of you and me to answer questions like this. I must tell you that citizens in the field are extremely priced when you are involved in these matters and decide on these issues, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure that's what you want. We Serbian radicals want pastures and villages to return to all Serbia, we want the state land to return to state property and profit and criminal exorcise from state land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13732	National MP Nikola Savic. Here you go. I assume you'll be advertising the Rules of Procedure and on the agenda. I couldn't link the story of agriculture, which is important, with the agenda point, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13733	Let's try the agenda point. I request a notice in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226, of the representatives of the motions for a decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – which has led to, absolutely, unprepared with this session, which in its own way represents the negation of both Parliament and parliamentaryism? This session is being deceived by opposition MPs and the entire Serbian public. In order to justify himself, in a way, to the public, he tried to show some democracy through the amendments he had allowed to be written. However, it is forgotten here that a member of the Rules of Procedure, under whom this session is being held, provides for a single search, so that the amendments submitted by some opposition MPs, in essence, represent only a dead letter on paper. The SRS MPs will not be reconciled and will always point to all irregularities and illegalities committed by this parliament and those who chair it, regardless of any sanctions you occasionally impose on SRS lawmakers. It will not scare us, we will always tell the public the truth, because this speaker is the only place where the truth can be heard about what is really happening in Serbia. Madam Chairman, I would well-intentioned to suggest that the problem that we have, related to this session, and not only to this session, is not your personal problem and it is not just your personal problem, it is a broader problem, and there is no need to bring yourself into an awkward situation, but think about the fact that some others are guilty of such things and that the culprits are elsewhere. That hot potato that someone handed over to you, move it back to where it came from and see if you can get out of all of this. Since it is on the agenda to adopt a new Rules of Procedure, since it will allow MPs to speak only two minutes on amendments, here, I will not use my three minutes, but I will finish something sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13734	You're done for a second. Mr. Vladan Jeremic, MP, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, it is obvious that we have already witnessed a period of synchronised attempts by the regime to translate Serbia from real into some kind of virtual framework. These findings, I think, are most likely depicted in the fact that, in parallel, two projects are being implemented – the first announcement of the suspension of television transmissions of assembly sessions, which I will only remind myself of, by the current ruling majority, has been marked as the greatest fluidity of democracy, or parliamentaryism, and the second thing is what we will discuss in the Assembly, as amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are foreseen. On this occasion, I just want to point out the importance of certain members of the current Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, and in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will remind you that in two times, over the past month, I have requested a reply from the government, or from the competent economy ministry, regarding the preparation of a proposal for concrete economic measures that would stop the dramatic decline of the citizens' standard of living. The only reaction that followed was the formation of an economic council. However, it is clear that this has been done more pro-forms, and that part of the money that was received from the recent sale of NIS is only temporarily prevented from the further decline of the dinars, i.e. the wave of collection. That this finding is correct, the best confirmation is, unfortunately, the fact that, in addition to the historical recommendation from Subotica on keeping jobs, workers are being fired, such as the latest case for them 126 in the youth progress. On this occasion, I would like to get an official explanation from the Ministry of Economy – how many employees are in the Republic Privatisation Agency, how many are employed under the labour contract and how many are their monthly incomes? I was encouraged to ask this question, given that the agency mentioned tried to fail to inform citizens of Serb municipalities in the area of KIM, regarding the entry of actions in public enterprises, is now taking leadership in local self-government in the territory of the southern Serbian province. Whatever the fate of these actions is, it becomes clear as the day it will be, I find this an inadmissible way to show once again the negligent and disinterest of the regime towards Serb life on KIM. However, since we have been witnessing that the Eulex mission is also being presented as something that is good, then we should not be surprised at this example that I have now set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13736	Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word. He's out. He's not here. Mr. Milorad Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have received information that this proposal was made on the basis of the work group's work on the construction, correction and innovation of the Rules of Procedure, but we have not received complete information as to why this working group has made such a text, which is consensual, which has neither content nor essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13738	Mr. Buha, the public works and the truth works, 128 MPs have done this text, and the task force is still doing its job. That's exactly what Mrs. Kolundji was talking about when she spoke to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13739	We received information from the President of the Assembly, from Hope Kolundjia, quoting: "The task force has worked too long. We can't let that last forever. ". It is thought of a group that has been working on innovating the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the Law on the National Assembly. The task force had to submit complete information about what she had done. How long does it take to inspect this Rules of Procedure? What about the Law on the National Assembly? For years we've been listening, expecting, working group working, agreeing. We don't have the law. We have a constitutional obligation to pass the Law on the National Assembly. The deadline's over. Who answers that? Who's stopping you? If you're saying the opposition is blocking the Assembly and the Assembly can't work, we don't have that desired pace, who's stopping this task force? What's the problem? Do we have a parallel right? We do. Let's rewrite it, bring it here, and we'll make a correction with the amendments. The task force, that's also your obligation, Mr President, has to report what she's done. It's been going on for years. Is it so important, a complex law, that it cannot come to the final text? It's not that. The task force is not working, and you who have proposed, first of all, the President of the Assembly, because it is the Commission of the President of the Assembly, is responsible for the fact that we do not have a law on the Assembly. Why did we break the Constitution? Who's responsible for that? You have to answer in public. The President of the Assembly has the highest responsibility there is. Why are we talking today at an extraordinary meeting about the minor amendment of the Rules of Procedure on Labour, when you spoke, in front of the position, that this will be a fundamental, comprehensive amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which will address the issue of the opposition's blockade? You've been saying that for months. We have received a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure, with six material and legal provisions that mean absolutely nothing. What you thought you didn't do. Why don't you unblock the assembly? You keep saying – the Assembly is blocked. Unblock her. You've got 126 votes, you bring that Rules of Procedure, you ban work, you do what you keep saying you're going to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13740	The working groups are doing their job very correctly and the result of this work will be extremely significant changes, related to parliamentary democracy, and in order to develop parliamentary democracy. In an explanation of the representatives of the proposings of today's agenda, you have heard all the reasons why we have defined ourselves, 128, to propose to the Assembly to declare, to be effective, first of all, the amendment of certain provisions of the existing Rules of Procedure, or members. Mr Miroslav Markicevic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13741	President-in-Office, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I appeal to Article 226 and I have a question for you too, Madam President, and for the ruling coalition. I wonder, as I believe, the majority of Serbian citizens watching this transmission – why is this circus in Parliament needed today? What does the ruling coalition's attempt to, through amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure that we are working on in this assembly mean, practically, abolishing, or trying to abolish democracy in the Serbian Parliament? Mrs. Nado Kolundji, I believe that you listen with attention to what I'm saying. I will draw attention to several facts that burden political and social life in Serbia in the last ten days, which are why what is done today in the Assembly is, firstly, an attempt to impose and create a new state in the country, or the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Since the ruling coalition, i.e. DS, in public, democratic, professional, legal, any, international, has fallen quite a bit, since the honest and real Serbs, which there are many in the DS in Vojvodina, have raised their voice and since it is obvious that from that statute, at least as it is now written, there is nothing, it took today's session to draw attention from this political defeat of the autonomouss, also, in the DS and some parties from Vojvodina. Secondly, the fact is that someone wants to ban MPs from talking about the subjects and problems of citizens who mean life. The fact is that someone is trying to ban, or to try to ban opposition MPs from reminding the ruling coalition of pre-election promises to citizens, based on which they received votes, and they know better than we do, because surely most citizens live worse than the MPs do, as you have achieved in these eight or nine months your pre-election promises. Third, attempt to shut down TV transmissions. I don't need to remind you of the words of the late Zoran Djindjic. If necessary, I'll go out all day to quote what he was saying about that attempt to shut down the TV broadcast. Of course, you've crashed like any government that's tried to shut down direct TV transmissions from the National Assembly's session, and, of course, there's a working group out there, where opposition MPs didn't participate, that's how it's going to work until October 1st. You will pass on, and when we are in power, this assembly, as long as there are Serbian Parliaments and citizens who want to watch it. Fourth, polls that have flooded the media and Serbia these days, and today the latest came out. One institution, which has the SES – the Union of Economists of Serbia, found Belgrade to be the cheapest city in the wider area, perhaps in the world, which means Belgrade is the best living place. However, to my wonderful surprise, and to praise you, the only television station with a national frequency, I end very quickly, Madam President, B92, did a survey on the streets of Belgrade. Look what the citizens said about what you did through the SES, i.e. You're trying to impose the ZES on public opinion, which is already a known part of your political marketing. There's something else I'd like to draw your attention to, all of you from the ruling coalition. If not, it's not my position, I'm not wise enough to invent it, wiser people than us have seen it, in the National Assembly, in the National Parliament, in a long period of time, democratic debates, whether someone likes it or not, then that democratic valve for social problems and tensions in society stands out of this high house and spreads into the streets. We've seen that before. Whether we want it or not, who have already grown old as MPs, believe that there are many conscious people, young, national, who will not allow certain things. That's not my wish, that's all I'm recommending. Think about it. What you are doing now has been done by the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. Think about it one more time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13742	The word has Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 104, and I'm also hoping to get an immediate answer from you, Madam President, and from the Ministry of Local Self-Government. Today, the most cruel violation is the dignity of the National Assembly. You've heard from most opposition MPs that this is, above all, a shame, that the DS wants to transfer responsibility to the opposition for all its powerlessness, that the opposition is to blame for everything. They are in power, powerless to rule, to implement their pre-election promises, and they are trying in every way possible to prevent the opposition from representing its views, to defend the interests of its voters, and the only place where the SRS can do so is this pay phone. Boris Tadic wants to cover every sherpa in Serbia. He went to change power in all the municipalities, wherever he could. Normally, to find an associate where he can bring down Serbian radicals from power. After a very long time, it was the Odjaks municipality. Not only is the citizens' will not respected, but, wanting to violate the will of the people in the Odzak municipality, they go so far as to serve false promises, as the DS did in the campaign. What's interesting about Odžaki municipality is that the complete top of the DS was in Odzac at the elections, beginning with Dusan Petrovic, Bozidar Djelic, Oliver Dulic, Bojan Pajtic. What's the reason the SRS in the Odjak municipality got so many votes? True to their voters, promises based on real foundations, not lies. Now they promise the citizens of Odjac municipality fivem euros by October, if the SPS, with the PUPS, exits the coalition with the SRS. It's just amazing. In particular, Mr. Colakovic knows this very well, he has an exceptional co-operation with the SRS. Absolutely all we could do in our community, we did for our pensioners, so we'll keep doing it. I'm sure the election was the only thing that measured it. This is where DS MPs laugh that I mentioned the election in the local community. They're absolutely legitimate choices. We had those elections in four municipalities. Out of the four municipalities, in Karavukov we received four mandates, in Bačka Gracac, of 11, nine, in Bačka Brestovac, of 11, nine, in Srpski Miletic, last week, of 11, we received 11. Besides, you want to violate the will of the people of Odjak municipality. For God's sakes, gentlemen, you won't succeed, and there's an old saying, "It's a tough fruit of wonder, it doesn't break it, it breaks its teeth." That's how it's gonna happen to you in the Ojacs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13744	It was a quote from the "Goreski venje" by Peter Petrovic Negoš. Mr. Kragovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225th and 226th, and I'm asking for an explanation from the government and the Youth and Sports Ministry. Namely, I received a protest letter from athletes from the Kosovo Mitrovica sports clubs: ''It is known that in sport someone is always looking forward to it, and someone is grieving. Unfortunately, the clubs and athletes from Kosovo Mitrovica, and when they win, have no one to share that little joy that sport can afford; either they play in other cities, or they play in empty school halls, without any fans, without any support, which would mean a lot to them, especially in the difficult times when the only important question we ask everyone – did anyone sell us? Does the government of the Republic of Serbia slowly leave us to the Shipar institutions and the Shiptar League? It is the government's conclusion that a sports hall is being built in our city. Today, although it started in 2007, it is unfinished and more like a prison than it would look like a sports arena. Who is the wall, who is the pay, who gave them permission, are the questions that no one has the answer to. So we decided to protest, and we will no longer tolerate anyone's care. On 3 February 2009, the initiative board held a meeting with all clubs and sports organisations in Kosovo Mitrovica and reached the following conclusions: all athletes and clubs holding their activities in the sports hall will step out of the competition unless the hall is completed by 1. Ten. In 2009. The second conclusion is that all athletes and clubs holding their activities at the football stadium will step out of the next competition if the stadium does not start building by 1 July 2009. On February 11th 2009, all athletes of the town of Kosovo Mitrovica will block entry into the city in the event of a protest, between 12 and 12:30 a.m. ''I got the signatures of clubs, to name just some, the Union for Sport and Olympic Education, representative Lucija Stanisic, the Basketball Club "Trepca", Bojan Jakšić, Šahovski Club "Trepča", Zoran Dragovic, Karate Club "Trepča", Đorđe Dragovic, Aero-club "Trepča", Bojan Zivković, Sport Federation Kosova Mitrovica, Slavko Valdić, all of them are signatures and overten seals, volleyball club "Kosovska Mitrovica", Nikola Radomirović, Judo Club "Trepca", Kosovska Mitrovica, Vlašković Novica, Fubodska Club "Trepča", Kosovo Mitrovica, Milosović Petar, Ski Club Kosovska Mitrovica, Ružica Bozovic, Ruzovska Mitrović, Rudbarska Club "Rošanska Mitrska Mitrović", Kosovska Mitrska Mitrović, Zavić, Zavić "Korska Bažanska Rabić, Zavić, Zavlić, Zavlić, Zavlić, Zavić, Zadović ". They're all demands. These are 22 clubs, if they have 50 members, you realize it's a thousand young people who don't have the conditions for sports activities. That's why another appeal to the government and the Youth and Sports Ministry to start the hall at last and build a stadium, create conditions for children in Kosovo Mitrovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13746	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13747	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I appeal to Rule 27 of our Rules of Procedure and it is a good thing that there is a transfer, to see how badly you and your predecessor are taking care of this session of the National Assembly. I would remind you that, before you came in, Mrs. Komic, in the first sentence, interrupted the messenger who was making the introduction, so he said, "I asked the question, so I ask an explanation." She didn't let him explain it, but she did, Malten, get him out of here. It's something that will be a daily appearance in the National Assembly, for one simple reason, which requires a business framework to vote from Bodrum, to vote from Thessaloniki. In the next phase, phone sessions of Parliament may also be possible, such as when the government's telephone sessions exist. Then we heard here some nebulosis from people who had nothing to do with matter. I would just remind myself, I can see a few MPs who were in France two years ago, in a parliamentary delegation; we visited the French National Assembly and their Senate. It is said this way, with them the process of passing the law lasts from six to nine months, from when the bill enters, until it comes out. There is no law against which 900 amendments have not been filed. When we told them that during the year we had 2,500 amendments, they said – good for you, good for you. You just heard a prototype of the Kumrov school, which is based on logic – if we sold NIS "Gasprom", and "Gasprom" are Russians, they think it is the Soviet Union, so they want Parliament to office as it was during the Warsaw Pact a saying for Bulgaria. In Bulgaria at the time, the most difficult operation was to extract tonsils, because they were not allowed to zin. This is what they want to introduce those from the ZES, to make ZES do everything, to simply conquer this kind of yellow in Serbia, to make everything yellow, to ruin everything, to cover up both Vojvodina and KIM, and everything else that's going on. I am taking the opportunity to invite all MPs tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, at 11 o'clock, to be here in the O.R., at a session of the Finance Committee, where we will discuss very large topics – what the Government is doing, what the National Bank is doing, and to remind the public, all MP groups have received an official letter to propose a candidate for the National Bank Council. No parliamentary group has submitted a proposal. Here's what Eurofanatics do, one public story, another media story, the third story here, the fifth one there, the sixth one there. (President: Time. ) Please place my proposal in the voting day, you, Mrs Comic and everyone who has changed here, violated the Rules of Procedure, obstructed the work of the National Assembly and did not allow citizens to travel to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13748	Today, only Mrs. Comic and I were having a session, so there's no more than the two of us. All right, in the voting day, the MPs will be told if there have been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have drawn the attention of Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic that this session has started in a wrong way. So, the 34th session of the Administrative Board just started, but it's not over. I have the impression that you citizens of Serbia are holding in the wrong belief that this session is over, that the agenda is exhausted and that a new, 35th session of the Administrative Committee could be opened afterwards, which would discuss amendments to the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, but that is simply not the case. You can't, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, think not personally, but your ruling coalition, to be Europeans only, must show it in action. It is not worth talking about – we are for European standards, we are for the European Assembly, for the European Rules of Procedure, and you are doing everything contrary to these European standards. You cannot, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, introduce the National Assembly into legal flows until you discover the cause of the parliamentary crisis in Serbia, from September 2008 until today. Today the question was to begin to resolve itself. At the 34th session of the Administrative Committee, the 9th item of the agenda should be to consider the resignations of three former SRS MPs. You have skillfully avoided discussing this, so that the session of the Administrative Committee began with a 10 minute delay, effective 15 minutes, U9. 55 hours of session terminated. A new session of the Administrative Committee was later launched without the previous 34th session being completed. Today, we did not get an answer to the question whether former SRS MPs are still members of this parliament or not. Until the issue is resolved, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, the assembly cannot be introduced into some normal operating flows. You can bring whatever Rules of Procedure you want, you can say you are a hundred times for Serbia's entry into the EU, but that mantra will not help you make the Assembly function normally. So we're just asking that the Assembly function in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I may not understand European legislation very well, but I understand what the Constitution and the law say. So return the work of the National Assembly to constitutional and legal flows, and there is no return of the Assembly to those flows until you resolve the matter of mandate. This is not about mandates as mandates, the SRS in the Serbian Parliament will not be much better, nor worse with three or without three mandates. This is about something else, whether in Serbia the principle of theft is legalised or not. If you legalize him in the National Assembly, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I guarantee you that you will not be able to stop that crime monster anywhere else. If you're legalizing crime here, then how do you think you can stop crime in public enterprises, agencies, ministries, municipalities, cities, etc.? If it's allowed to steal here, who guarantees that in all other state structures there won't be any worse than in the National Assembly? So, before you join the debate of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, you must stop crime in the National Assembly. As long as political crime is present here, some major improvement in the work of the National Assembly will be nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-10-0.u13750	Since we have been informed from RTS that in a matter of seconds, the transfer will be cut off, due to the transfer of Serbia-Cyprus football game, we will finish work today. I would ask you to work tomorrow on the agenda, regardless of all the dissatisfactions and expectations that some MPs have. At ten o'clock, we'll continue our work.
