ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is for the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Milutin Mrkonjic. It is the fact that the citizens of Westbok County have been brought into an unequal position with other citizens, due to the toll collection on the road Novi Sad - Subotica, on a section from Vrbasa to Novi Sad. They pay the same toll fee, 330 dinars, as those who go that way from Subotica to Novi Sad pay. What does that mean in translation? This means that Western District citizens pay 10 dinars per mile per mile, while everyone else who travels that way by mile costs 3.40 dinars. The same situation on this part of the highway related to the Belgrade-Nish section, where the average cost of using the highway is three dinars per km. The Municipal Committee of the Democratic Party of Serbia in Somboro launched an initiative to put Western District citizens in an unequal position of correction, and received support from the competent Regional Chamber of Commerce from Somboro and the Municipality of Apatin, as such actions put the citizens of Somboro, Kula, Apatin, Odzak and Vrbasa at risk. One more thing, and this is a continuation of the question to Mr Milutin Mrkonjic – with what right does this country even charge toll on the shares of Novi Sad - Subotica, when it is not a highway at all? On the contrary, it is one of the most risky roads, which has taken the most victims, and it is simply amazing that citizens are charged to tolls on the road section from Novi Sad to Subotica, because it is not a highway. Someone has to explain to us, but not to me, but to the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia in general – what advantages and benefits do they have using the road section from Novi Sad to Sudotica? Absolutely nothing. The democratic party of Serbia will launch an initiative to assess the legality, i.e. the constitutionality of the decision to charge toll on the stake. On the contrary, even a share from Belgrade to Novi Sad is not a highway. You need to get to Batajnica in some way, knowing how, in impossible conditions of traffic, then you have a stop at Beška, as if you were on the Paris-Dakar relay. Well, that's where Fernando Alonso would have the trouble of going that way. Then you have that stock in front of the New Sad. Maybe that's not the problem for Valentin Rosy, but for ordinary drivers he is. So, you don't need to charge anywhere, and the toll toll from Novi Sad to Saturday is simply a violation of citizens' rights to equality. It's a harbinger, which is charged for no reason whatsoever. I pray that this injustice, at least until it decides to pay toll for the entire stock, is corrected for the citizens of Westbok County, because I repeat once again, the citizens of Somboro, Vrbasa, Kula, Apatino and Odjak are placed in an unequal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27240	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27241	I will use on behalf of the SNS a business right to ask the Minister of Finance under Article 235 and I think that the question of how the State will resolve and how it maintains the state of insolvency in its own way must be illustrated by one concrete example. In this case, I'm going to introduce you to the situation at Vetfarm, because the situation in the Serbian economy and economy leaves a mark throughout the pharmaceutical sector, and at this point, the consequences are felt by Vetfarm, because the level of its claims from state health is over 800 million dinars. This is an insurmountable problem in the functioning of the company, and total claims, due to the general indifference to which the state has indirectly contributed, amount to over a billion and three hundred million dinars. Although it is under the impression that the Republic Health Insurance Fund regularly settles its obligations within 60 days, as planned by the Fund, individual health institutions waste their resources and spend more than they own. This proves the claims of the Vetfarm, which are over 90 days old and over 360 days old, and on this day are the 354 million dinars according to the facility. The question arises who controls the intentional spending of medical and apothecary facilities. We estimate that over two billion more funds were spent by health institutions than was planned by the Fund. It is particularly worrying that in total drug consumption, according to the data we received from the Group of Great Drugs, domestic drugs participate with only 50%, by 50%, while naturally it is 75% in favour of domestic drugs and 25% in favour of foreign medicines. The question arises to whom it goes in favour, whether it is the interest of the state, of the citizens or of someone in whose interest budgets are spent. In such worse conditions of business and the severe debt crisis, the Ministry of Finance and its Treasury Administration gave one unusual instruction to all direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget, that a legal and legal instrument of reconciliation is prohibited. That is why we are asking the Minister of Finance, who must be in progress with the instruction given and which directly violates the positive legal regulations and thus prevents the work of many entities, including the "Vetfarm". Although he's a member of 54. The law on the budgetary system is specified that compulsory social insurance organisations are beneficiaries of budgetary resources, we believe that they are not in fact users, because their revenues are realised through contributions, not through taxes, and we do not think that there is any budgetary position to finance the health of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens will likely only remember the debt that he eventually left for Cvetkovic's legacy according to the institute, while concealing Mr Dinkic, and at that time it amounted to a significant 23 billion dinars. Vetfarm is in this state of crisis, prior to the adoption of this instructions on the ban on the cesium being an instrument of reconciliation, signed over 300 million values of the cesium, but was denied by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury Administration's position on it and budget users to settle obligations in a manner provided for by the Law on Bond Relations. In accordance with Article 54. The law on the budgetary system, it was the minister's duty to regulate the payment method and, not specifically, to disable society, but to issue a special instruction that these payments are being made. We ask the Minister to carry out his obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27242	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is very simple. It comes from the fact that at this point, and according to the finance ministry's report, we have an excessive budget deficit of four billion dinars. Namely, according to the April rebalancing, 70.4 billion dinars, and now, at this time, according to a report called The Receptions and expenditures of the Republic of Serbia's budget in January-September 2009, according to the 2009 Budget Law, with the state on October 5th 2009, it amounts to 74.2 billion dinars. We all know very well that the essence of the budget system, and based on our positive regulations, is such that commitments can only be made in the frameworks approved and allowed by law. As far as the budget is concerned, the budget is the law, therefore, if a deficit is set at 70.4 billion dinars by law, it cannot go beyond that framework on October 5th of this year, during the financial year. If we want to cross that framework, as far as possible, we can predict in the law that it is a budget deficit and 300 billion, but then we need to access budget rebalancing. My question is very simple. It is directed to you, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Since you know that the Government of Serbia's obligation to propose this, you are the President of Parliament and you are taking care of the agenda and plans for parliament on your own, in agreement with the ruling coalition, supposedly calling us for some consultations, so I'm not going there, which there is nothing to agree on, just delivering what you're coming up with... So my question to you is very simple -- when you think you're telling us if you've heard from someone from the Serbian government and agreed on that budget rebalance, because every item of the agenda here, except for the agenda points for this session, we have no idea what's going to happen, so I'm also interested in when it's going to be on the agenda. Here is a representative of the government who is the Minister of General Practice, who knows everything, probably all you know is what the Prime Minister, Mr Milosavljevic, knows, so the same question concerns you. You can tell Mr. Cvetkovic that he could answer that question too – when does he think there will be budget rebalancing, so we don't get in the way? It's not new, but we could break up with that practice at some point, because it's, after all, embarrassing our country. Experts say, both domestic and foreign, that by the end of the budget year, the deficit will come to over 150 billion dinars if it continues like this. So we need to discuss budget rebalancing, we need budget rebalance, so let's see how the state is managed and how the economy is managed. We have also asked Governor Radovan Jelasic this same question, we will ask the same question and we will ask the President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27244	Thank you. The content of your discussion is, in the form of an initiative, in writing, actually delivered to me yesterday, and I sent it to the Prime Minister, Resort Minister, as one of your initiatives, and the budget rebalance proposal can be driven by the Government. Therefore, I have already responded by your initiative and of course I will have oral communication regarding the text you sent me, which is the content of your question today. I give my word to the People's Councilman, Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27245	Dear President, dear colleagues, I have a question for Mr. Rasim Ljajic, above all on behalf of the prisoners of war. In May of the month we asked a question here, he politely answered and thank him very much. But not enough. He educated the commission on war prisoners. We're interested in who these people are, to get a service phone so we can communicate with this man, not harass the Parliament and you, Madam President. In addition, could a representative of the prisoners of war be a member of the commission? The second issue concerns Serbia's Television. When will the public service of Serbia and its director record a memorial session and convey to the citizens of this country the goal of the Serb people that took place in the Kingdom on 14 October 1941? The same goes for Kragujevac, October 21st. Because it is the public service of Serbia, and why does Mr. Tijanic not carry the memorial sessions of these two cities that day? I won't talk about the fact that 6,500 people were shot in King's Landing and in Kragujevac over 7,000, some of whom were students. It's a shame for the country if the public service can't pass those two things on to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27246	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question – what did the Ministry of Justice and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office do about the unprecedented events a year ago (in fact, there are almost 14 months), when Ranko Panic was killed during the rally of the Serbian Radical Party? We have information that the interior ministry has done its part of the job and that it has provided the prosecution with data relating to allegedly those who participated in the beating of Ranko Panic, which is why he died several days later. Why am I asking this question? First of all, because this is the best evidence that the government and this current government are essentially guilty of killing a French citizen, who also died in front of a football game by the hands of fans or some cheerleading groups using the current power. Because immediately after the rally, we showed you footage showing groups of fans who were brought here, instructed to challenge unrest at the SRS rally, to start tearing down Belgrade and to justify the current government for potential banning political gatherings in downtown Belgrade. It's obvious that this government is working with fans, with cheerleading groups, to benefit them on various occasions. Interestingly, to this day, although it is mentioned that a certain number of people who are suspected of being involved in a fight have been arrested, we do not have any information to this day about who these people are and who is the most responsible among them. There is a likelihood that there will be among them those who serve the police and the current authorities for the dirty work they are doing for them, as was the case at the "Kosovo Is Serbia" rally. They're obvious facts about the regime of current authorities and cheerleading groups, or hooligans, as you like to call them, but only when it suits you. When it doesn't suit you, you look at it in every way possible to cross over. If this doesn't work out, this won't be the last incident, or the last victim, of a group of fans, it'll probably continue. Because you and the fans started working together on October 5th, you're continuing it to the day of today, and we absolutely don't have a single fan who was responsible for anything he did today. But that's why we have the opposite -- those who burned down the Assembly on October 5th, who were breaking into a police station on the street. Mothers of Jevrosime and carrying out arms, they later received some state functions. You just act like it all the time. The only thing your goal is to cover your tracks in every way possible, your relationship with the cheerleading groups, because that's the only way you can keep using their services. We ask the Ministry of Justice, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to provide us with information – what has been done so far on the death of Ranko Panic, who are the persons identified, what has been taken, has the indictment been filed and how many people participated in the murder of Ranko Panic?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27248	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP, Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, that the issue of the West Coast was contained only in one problem, which he asked, as a parliamentary question, Mr Vladan Batic, where would we end? However, it is not the end of the problem that plagues Sombor municipality. Those who have really big problems are the ones who won't even get to that billing ramp. These are, above all, workers of the holding company Bane and workers of the AD company Borderar in Gakova. These are workers who, after two illegal, unsuccessful privatisations, after many games at the highest level, and probably led by the Ministry of Economy, remained on the street with no income, no income, no future. They've sent letters to all the resolution ministries and the Privatisation Agency, and so far they've received only one reply from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, explaining that their letter has been forwarded further. We expect to get answers from the RES, from the Privatisation Agency – what will continue to happen with these two failed, illegal privatisations? Also, what will happen to persons in the municipality who have allowed illegal activities in the field of publishing, auctioning the country AD “Borderer” in Sombor municipality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27250	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Wolf Dincic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27251	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, my question concerns what is happening at Belgrade University these days, primarily at the Faculty of Architecture. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Education and Minister of Education, and regarding what students have been asking for days as a question, which is – will all those who have obtained the condition to enrol in master studies and enter master studies? Also, will there be any quotas for the budget of the best students to enroll the master's studies? Next, what happens to students who, according to their earlier plans and programs, have enrolled in college and obtained conditions for enrolment in master's studies? In any case, I welcome the Ministry of Education's efforts to try to solve this problem during this period and it is clear that a government that exists for a little more than a year cannot solve all the problems when it comes to higher education. But here's the question of the Higher Education Act. I think that the sooner the law should come to the agenda of the session, and we should discuss it, because every school year we have the same problems and the same questions are asked – who has the right to enter, what is the interpretation of the law, etc. On the other hand, I absolutely respect the autonomy of the university, respect what colleges do, but I think there's a great responsibility here for both the Architectural Faculty and the management of that university. The students asked the university dean to come up with a plan and program at the end of the summer semester to enroll in the master's studies. However, it was not known until two days before the enrolment, and they agreed with him that all students who met the conditions for enrolment in master studies do so and to set quotas for budget students. Two days before the enrolment, he changed absolutely everything for it. He asked the students to sign contracts asking them to know the conditions for enrolment, to accept them, and to pay the war of 40,000 dinars. Of course, the students didn't accept it, and I don't know what's going on at all, how he thinks that college should be run. In the previous period, in a few terms, we had ministers of education from a political party that was the least involved in education, and maybe this is the result of all that was happening, because they were not at all dealing with the problem of students and university reform. But I would ask today's minister to advocate that the problem should be solved as soon as possible, because 15 days ago classes were to begin, and classes are not being held and brought into question by the winter semester.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27252	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorized representatives, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by MPs Sinisa Stamenkovic and Aleksandar Pejcic, as well as that I am in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with a view to reviewing the 8th item of the agenda, invited other than the proposing representatives to attend the sittings of Gradimir Nenadovic, the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, and Darko Radojčić, the Assistant Director. We are moving to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the DESCRIPTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (principles) You have received the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, and before the opening of the principled search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours and that this time is allocated to political groups in proportion to the number of MPs of members of parliamentary groups. This means that the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia has at its disposal - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group of MPs - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group - 18 minutes; the LDP Group of MPs - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia Group of MPs - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail Group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Parliamentary Group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not done so so far, they shall file a statement with the order of the MPs. I would like to inform the MPs: MP Djordje Milicevic of the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Konstantin Arsenovic, MP of the PUPS; MP Bozidar Delic, MP for Serbia, SRS parliamentary group Mirko Munjic; and the New Serbia parliamentary group Zlata Djeric. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposal's representative want the word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Milosavlevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27253	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is time for me to inform you today about the bill of honours. This is a short law, it has 33 members, it is simple and precise, and it will allow the practice of the award of medals to continue in the Republic of Serbia. The medals have a long history and extend deep into the past, down to ancient times. Every state, from the point of view of sovereignty, has a need for distinctions, as the highest sign of public recognition, expressing gratitude to the merits of their courageous deeds, achievements or skills. The medals include medals, medals, and monuments, which basically accepts the division of medals in the modern world. The highest rank has medals, followed by medals, and then monuments. Serbia has the longest medal tradition in the Balkans. Historically, the appearance of medals in Serbia was conditioned by the formation of state authorities in the 19th century. Our then Ordenic signs rely on the already known forms of European medals with their looks. The first medal in the Principality of Serbia, the Takovski Cross, was established in 1865 by Prince Mikhail Obrenovic for the 50th anniversary of the Second Serbian Uprising. The Law on Orders and Medals of the Kingdom of Serbia since 1883 established the Order of the White Eagle, which was awarded for the merits of war and the Order of the Holy Sava, which was awarded for civil merits, and the Office of Orden was introduced. Later, compared to the medals, medals and monuments were established. The establishment of national medals during this period marked an important segment of the rounding of Serbian statehood, as each state also seeks to highlight its identity through the Orden system. The 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia found that the Republic of Serbia regulates and secures the honours of the Republic of Serbia, that is, Article 97 of point 14, and that the President of the Republic gives medals, Article 112 of Item 1 7. The adoption of the Bill of Features would create conditions for the evaluation of merits in all areas of public life and work, and would allow for the continuation of old and good practice of the award of distinction. At the same time, it would also allow the evaluation and merit of foreign citizens, foreign legal entities, and international organisations and institutions. The proposed system of distinction, in the pursuit of historical and traditional identification, did not ignore the modern approach to this matter. The matter of distinctions has been arranged in accordance with European practice in this area. The proposed system characterises the measurement in the approach, establishing transparent and concise but striking system of distinctions, as clear criteria for their allocation. Chapter I of the bill (basic provisions, Articles 1 to 6) defines the honours of the Republic of Serbia and the entities to which they are assigned, as well as the right of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to wear the honors of foreign states. The medals are the highest signs of public recognition given for the outstanding merits and works of great importance for the Republic of Serbia - it is governed by Article 2. Since wearing foreign medals can have implications for certain historical or other facts, the right of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to carry them has been conditioned by the consent of the foreign affairs ministry. Also, a ban on the production of objects with the prospect of honouring the Republic of Serbia is being imposed, with the aim of protecting the highest state recognitions. For reasons of practicality and ease of wear, it is envisaged to make miniature decorations, which is also a common practice in the world. In Chapter II. The usual division of medals, medals and monuments has been accepted. In the case of a definition for the names of medals and medals, those are art. The 8th and 9th laws have come from the attitude to take into account universal and superdeciological values, such as courage, nobility, merit for the state, and state symbols - the flag of the Republic of Serbia. Such access shall also have a foothold in parallel law. With regard to the degree of excellence, the principle of trotterhood for medals and two-stage medals has been accepted, except for the Order of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest order of state, which has two degrees. Although there are three to five-degree medals in most of the orderly systems, the three-degree definition is that they are sufficient to advance the medals and that they cover a wide enough range of merits. The two-stage medals stem from the tradition of the principality and the Kingdom of Serbia, which dominated the division into two degrees, which in the nation had become the golden and silver medals, determined according to the importance of the merits for which they were assigned. The Order of the Republic of Serbia is being awarded on a large necklace and on a flax, and is intended for protocol needs at the level of sovereign, heads of state or government. Since it is the highest order, it is named after the name of the state, which is often the case in other orderly systems. The Serbian flag's order is given special credit for developing the international relations of the Republic of Serbia with other states and international organisations, named after the flag, as one of the basic state symbols. The Happy Order is awarded for the special merits in the fields of public, economic, cultural, educational, sports and humanitarian activities. He was named after the day in which two major historic events took place of importance for the Serbian people and the state of Serbia -- February 15, 1804, when the first Serbian uprising was erected at the Orasco choir, and February 15, 1835, when the first Serbian Principality Constitution was adopted. This day is also the state holiday of the Republic of Serbia, according to a law governing state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. The country's merits order is awarded for the special merits and successes of representing the state and its citizens. The name of the Order is generally designed to reward the merits of all areas of public and social life. The White Eagle Order with swords is awarded for the special merits of building a defence system or commanding and managing military units, i.e. military institutions and training them to defend the Republic of Serbia. This Order has a historic tradition in the Kingdom of Serbia and is intended primarily to reward high-ranking Serbian Army officers. The Defence and Security Order is assigned for the above-average, exemplary and honorable performance of duties and tasks in the fields of defence and security. Medals and their names - Medal of Courage, Medal of Credits, Medal of Defence and Security, are given recognition for the merits, deeds, or values for which these medals will be awarded. The monuments are assigned to mark events of great importance for the Republic of Serbia. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament The draft laws shall specify the competences and procedures for the award of distinctions. The President of the Republic assigns medals to the apparition, and the award order is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" (i.e. in Article 12 of this Bill). The constitutional provision of the powers of the President of the Republic shall be legally discussed by defining the type of act, i.e. the indication of which the President of the Republic exercises its constitutional competence to grant the distinctions set out in Article 112 paragraph 1 point 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The deadlines for the medal are scheduled. As a rule, it's February and June. Proposers, form and method of submission of the proposal to the Office of the Order have been authorised. The principle of gradual progress within the same distinction has been accepted, which comes from the realization that the above-average is a permanent component of personality, which is precisely why the state rewards the medals. Chapter IV, that is Article 16, is established by the Commission for Fines, whose members are appointed by the President of the Republic. The role of the Commission is to maintain the reputation of the medal at a level that corresponds to the highest state recognitions. The examination of the proposal for the award of medals by this Commission shall check the fulfilment of the conditions for the award of medals, which shall facilitate the final decision of the President of the Republic. Chapter V of Article 17 shall be established by the Office of the Order, as a professional service within the General Secretariat of the President of the Republic, which shall carry out professional and administrative technical tasks for the needs of the Commission for Fines. Consistent with the nature of the highest state recognitions, the provisions of Chapter VI. Article 18 and 19 provide for the award of the award by the President of the Republic, i.e. the personal representative of the President of the Republic, on his behalf. This chapter also provides rules for the treatment of traits in the event of the death of a decorated person, the rights of decorated persons who have lost their distinction or have been damaged, the rights of persons decorated under previous regulations, as well as the way in which they are treated, which is closely governed by special regulations. In order to protect the reputation of distinction, Chapter VII, that is, Article 24, it is prescribed that a decorated person may be taken away by acting contrary to public order and morality or by some other reasons making him an unworthy position of the holder of the distinction. As it assigns them, the President of the Republic by means of an indication published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and taking away medals. The Republic of Serbia, as a country with a long tradition of the Orden system, should have a modern and well-organised system of medals. The adoption of the proposal for this law allows for the continuation of good practice of the award of distinction as recognitions for exceptional merits for the state. The symbolic gesture of the state in terms of the award of the highest award deepens the relationship between the authority of the awarding State and the authority of the person who receives it. The medals represent the state in their own way, noting the meaning of moral, spiritual, and intellectual. This beautiful, old and traditional custom should continue. I thank you for your attention and invite you to give your support to this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27254	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, the president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Gjorge Milicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27255	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Proposal for Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia is the most important legal act that regulates the award of medals to the merited individuals, citizens, athletes, collectives, as well as foreign statesmen and states. The medals are defined as the highest signs of public recognition, which are granted for outstanding merits and deeds of great importance for the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the necessity of passing this law lies, first of all, in the fact that the current law, from 1998, is inapplicable. This is the regulation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and in the name of each Order is the name of the then, or former Federation. So it's not logical to share an order of the non-existent state and for that reason, as far as I know, no order has been signed since 2006. It is also important to adopt this law so that the President of the Republic and the Office of Orden could resolve a number of requirements (there are several hundred requirements, as we could hear in recent days in public) about the award of one of the medals. I'd like to give you just one example from the city I'm from, from Valjev. One example is, for example, an initiative initiated by the City of Valjev Assembly. The City of Valjev Assembly supported by a political consensus the initiative of the SPS committee club that the Air Force Colonel Milenko Pavlovic, who died in 1999 defending the sky over Valjev in an unequal battle with the enemy and soldier Stojadin Mirkovic, who died in 1991 in the barracks "Bedenik" near Bjelovar shoulder with Major Tepic, received the Order of the National Hero for exceptional merits in defence. We felt that patriotism and heroism in defending the country and Stojadin Mirkovic and pilot Milenko Pavlovic should not be forgotten and should serve as an example of heroism. In response from the Cabinet, it has been pointed out repeatedly that the conditions for considering and eventually adopting these initiatives will be created by adopting the law on distinctions and we expect and we want to believe that these initiatives will, after adopting this bill, be adopted and will receive the epilogue they deserve. The existing law, as said among other things, contains and predicts 30 medals and medals, which is one way much, while the new law provides for six medals and three medals. Many medals, such as the Order of the Yugoslav Army and the Order of the Yugoslav Star, are the merits of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and cannot be covered by a new law because they contain the name of a non-existent state. We believe that a certain number of medals that have been deleted should be introduced into the new law, such as The Order of the People's Hero, the Order of Courage or the Medal of Obelić. We have offered a number of amendments to Articles 8 and 9, first of all, bearing in mind that in this way Serbia owes not only to the winners of medals, but also to the greats of Serbian history, culture, education and science, whose names these honours bear. On the other hand, we believe that the tradition of the oldest Serbian medal should be respected when it comes to individual medals. Of course, we are aware of the fact that the making of the medal is expensive and that a large number of countries are just ordering it from abroad and that, in principle, when drawing up this legislative proposal, it has been seen to be at least burdened by the budget. Also, as we could hear, one of the problems facing the Orden Office is requirements from all over the former Yugoslavia to issue duplicates of lost medals. The law provided for conditions for the assignment, as well as, among other things, the conditions for confiscation of distinctions. I believe that when it comes to orders that are bound, let's say, for war credits, the courage expressed, there should be absolutely no possibility for them to be taken away, because the wearers of these medals have put their lives at risk in order to get them. Or, if there is a possibility of taking away a medal, it is necessary to define precisely the reasons for not being abused in the context of some political story, which, I'm convinced, none of us wants. The costs of the Orden Office are not too great, but they will settle and regulate a significant area legally. The law provides for the introduction of records of decorated persons. We assume it also applies to those who have already received medals, and it's a really big job. Penalties proposed by this law will contribute to the settlement of this area. The recognitions thus awarded will have a greater value. When it comes to the award of monuments, I believe that the state should pay back to citizens and soldiers who defended the state during the 1990s and NATO aggressions in Serbia. By passing this law, we will solve a complicated area in the next period. The Commission should certainly establish a public, parallel classification of the distinctions awarded in the previous period, with the features provided for in the new law. In the end, I would like to say that the SPS, the SPS-JS, in principle supports the legislative proposal. The final position will be given in the amendment debate, bearing in mind that the SPS-JS Parliament Club has proposed a set of amendments when it comes to this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27256	The word is Mr. Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27257	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak of this law as the authorised president of the SNS. Instead of the culture minister, who was supposed to answer some of the solutions set out in this law here today, there is a minister of trade and services, who, despite his best wishes, will not be able to answer any of my questions when it comes to medals in the Republic of Serbia. The bill was made by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know whether other ministries participated in his work, primarily the Ministry of Defence and, of course, the scientific institutions dealing with our national history and tradition. If it had been done, we would have had a much better proposal than the one we're discussing. The reasons for the adoption of this law also cites the establishment of continuity with the long tradition of orderly systems in the Republic of Serbia, which does not continue, but reverses the long tradition of the orderly systems. This, through my example, I will explain to Mr. Secretary. In the last nine years alone - May 15, 1999, I received the Order for Courage, November 25, 1999, I received the Order of the National Hero for My Brigade, June 16, 2004. Is there one of these orders in this bill? What kind of state was I fighting for, and that was only nine or ten years ago? The oldest medals and medals you propose here are only nine years old. It's a medal for defence and security and Medals for defence and security. Are the creators of this law familiar with the history of the Orden system in general, especially in Serbian states throughout the centuries until today? You said, Mr. Minister, that in ancient times the medals first appeared, and that's true. However, in this sense today, they first appear in the Middle Ages, as an expression of recognition to the knightly order or to the high feudal nobility. Instead of rewarding their army leaders with castles, territories or noble titles, medals are increasingly emerging, as a form of recognition for merits in wars. According to its basic source, they were created on the military foundations of the spirit of honor and credit for the ruler, state, or religion in the early 15th century. Later, their importance and role spread to the feudal nobility, and by the end of the 17th century, the award of medals is extended to citizenship. This was particularly conditioned, on the one hand, by the creation of large standing armies and by increasing conditions of titles after the French Revolution, and on the other, by increasing merits from individual areas of life and work. In particular, the Orden systems and medals have been developing intensively since the beginning of the 18th century. The basics of all honours were also spells, except here, according to your proposal in Serbia, military medals. They were, by the way, the special group of medals, both in importance and rank, and remained the most important, the most respected, the highest, especially in countries that had the long military and historical and state-of-the-art tradition that Serbia had, and what you are canceling with this proposal. In these countries medals or medals of honor have been established, as the highest state rank of medals. Today I'm thinking that, writing these amendments, I missed and that I should have suggested either the Order of Defilement or the Medal of Depth, and suggested that the Minister of Culture get it first. It is almost not known that the first order of the Serbs was established by Emperor Dusan, Mr. Minister, by the 1349 Law and by the 1354 additions. It was the Order of St. Stefan. In Montenegro, first medal was established by bishop Petar Petrovic Negos, in 1846. It was "Silver medal for courage", and in 1847, or 1851, he initiated the production of "Golden medals for courage" with the character Milos Obilić. It's the "Employer's Medal" and it had the highest place in the hierarchy of Montenegrin medals. The first Order of the Principality of Serbia, as you said, was established in 1865 by Prince Mihailo Obrenovic. It's the Order of such a cross. In the Kingdom of Serbia, the Medal of Courage was established in 1876, and the Medal of Courage "Milos Obilic" was established during the Second Balkan War in 1913. The orderly system that was built during World War II and during the existence of the SFRY was also highly developed, but had inadmissible ideological exclusion, as it broke the link to previous orderly systems, which existed exclusively in the Serb people. Just like you did with this proposal of yours. The Law on Features of the SRJ, which is put out of force by this law, was restored to continuity with all previous orderly systems that existed for centuries in Serbian states, so let me tell you a little bit about it. In the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the medals expressed public recognition for work and works that deserve prominence and general recognition. The system was established in 1998 and was linked to the previous order system, primarily the SFRY, but also to all the earlier-term ordenic systems. He's also taken over a large number of these medals. These were in the first row: the Order of Yugoslav Great Stars, the Order of Freedom and the Order of the first-degree Yugoslav Star. These medals had some changes in their name and appearance, and they followed the alignment with the state coat of arms and flag. Where necessary, these decorations leave out ideological symbols. Such changes were made in the redesigned features transferred from that previous system. So we have the Order of the People's Hero, the Order of the Yugoslav flag in three degrees, the Order of the War Flag (it was only in one degree, then added to three degrees), the Order of Merit in three degrees (the former was the Order of the Republic), the Order of the Yugoslav Army in three degrees (the Early Order of the People's Army), the Order of Merits in the Area of Defence and Security, also in three degrees (established instead of the former Order of Military Merits), and the Order of the Yugoslav Star of the First, Second and Third Instance. The Order of Courage and the Order of Labour existed in the previous Orden system, and new medals were introduced: the Order of Yugoslavia on the great necklace - the Lenti and the Order of the Knight's Sword in three stages. The new group of medals were then made: The Order of Nemania, because it established a link with the first Orden system, that is, the Order of the Holy Nemancer from the time of Emperor Dusan; then Orden Negosa, Orden Vuk Karadzic, Orden Tesla. None of these giants are here, Mr. Minister, in your proposal. These medals were of the same rank, and were given credit in international politics, economic and cultural co-operation, for contributing to social, humanitarian sciences, education, culture, art and natural and technical sciences. As new medals and new categories were introduced large medals, which included: Medal Obilić, because this established continuity with the time of the beginning of the 20th century; then Medal of Honor; Cvijic's Medal; Medal of the White Angel and Medal of Humanity. Besides, a series of medals and medals were introduced. It is for the country's long-standing zealous service, for the long-standing zealous service in the field of defence and security, then in the fields of economy, education, culture, agriculture, as well as the Medal of Merits in the field of defence and security and Medals for virtues in the field of defence and security. This bill, which is before us, once again rips off continuity with previous orderly systems, and needs to be complemented by amendments, which we have done, or should be completely rejected and written new. Reading the Bill of Features, and consulting the previous Orden systems, first of all from our rich experience, is the following impression: this bill is inadmissiblely simplified and so maimed in a national affirmative sense, where it is completely abandoned by our great and famous cultural and historical, liberating, state-of-the-art and creative values, so it is much worse compared to any previous Orden system, especially that of 1998. There is a big difference between this bill on distinctions and orderly systems from the Principality and the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the SFRY and Republika Srpska, which is still unacceptable. It is the impression that this is not about the same fate, faith, tradition, history and culture, the people who have the same greats, but rather about this civil and extra-national consciousness, the perfidual, this proposal undermines Serbia, promotes discontinuity, fragmentation and seek differences, even animosities to the respective orderly systems, which, however, must be determined that they were significantly more justified in the sphere of historical, freedom, creative and other national values of the Serbian people. Most of the medals and medals clearly defined as war were cast out. Such an attitude shows that we do not need an army and counts that there will never be war in these places again. It is a dangerous delusion, which can have tragic consequences for our people and our country. In our amendments, we predicted both medals and medals that could be earned, or won only in the war. The greats of the Serbian people did not pay any attention, in the sense that at least someone from that play is taken not only by ours, but also by the world's greats, as an example and a recognition for the name of the Order or Medals. How would you, Mr. Minister, try to explain that to me? It is a kind of disgrace to the Bill of Features, which is directly sanctioned not only by these greats, but through them is demeaning and underestimating my Serbian people. Such a bill seeks to publicly collapse and break ties and historical continuity with the most significant and responsible Serbs, personalities from our people. They are unwanted and infected by the imposed trend of the Euro-Asian, Euro-EU Europeanisation of Solana's type, which is also wanted to push through these honours of the Republic of Serbia. If someone is to say that these medals do not have their ideological delicacy, I will absolutely tell you that I do not agree with that, because you said in your speech that this law has established new modern European decorations. And as soon as you break our tradition, it means you're ideologically motivated. Because if you hadn't been ideologically motivated, you would have kept most of the 1998 bill. Leaving out a lot of medals is a special story. If the law runs out of Obilic's medal, as the traditionally most respected medal for the Serbian people, it is obviously a disrespect, and even a mockery of the military honor of the famous Serb army and all the bearers of Medal Obilic. There are probably some of you here whose grandfathers deserve the Obilić medal, you may have it now in your house, but on the day you vote for this bill, think carefully about whether you deserve to have that medal or sell it to a flea market, as you normally do today. The monuments aren't even worked out, which says all this was done in a hurry, although this bill came almost a year ago. There are plenty of events that are related to our national, cultural or state-of-the-art area that could be taken, that at least some of the monuments might be found in the proposal. In the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is said, among other things, that this law would allow for the continuation of the practice of awarding distinctions as moral recognitions that confirm and glorify useful work for the state. The medals must not glorify the useful work. It should be publicly verified, respected, recognised, as such an affair, with the encouragement of others to greater prerogatives, patriotic feelings, a positive selection of the best, the most useful for society, the state and the people. The explanations of individual solutions are more convincing of the Bill of Features than they truly had to be. This says that the legislator is not sufficiently familiar with the problem and that he did not have a proper rule with it, which is inadmissible and even unserious. Few countries in the world can say that it has eight centuries of a long tradition of orderly systems. Would anyone, gentlemen, dare take away the Legion of Honor from the French, the English of Victoria's cross or the Americans' Purple Heart? You, with this proposal to us, the Serbian people, take away the Medal and many other medals, and let it serve you honor. The Serbian Progressive Party has given amendments, in practice, to a large number of these members, and this is not at all about amendments that only regulate the award of medals, because that's okay. The essence of our amendments applies only to the kind of decoration, primarily medals and medals. If you were to adopt amendments to the SNS, then this law would make sense, and if it remains on this proposal, then the SNS would vote against.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27258	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Munjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here's a proposal for a law of distinction, a bill which the proposer himself says in one place is necessary to bring and that so far the 1998 law that has become obsolete has been used, that it is necessary to pass a new law on distinctions for another reason, and that is because the President of the State has not been able to exercise his constitution for a long time. I would remind you that Article 112 of item 1 of point 7 of the Constitution of Serbia states that it is one of the responsibilities of the President of the Republic of Serbia and that it gives pardons and grants medals. It is further said that the reason for the urgent procedure for the adoption of this law on distinctions is that no adverse consequences would arise. The question arises whether so far there have been adverse consequences that the President of the Republic has been disabled or prevented from exercising this constitutional competence. The question arises who will amnest you out of responsibility for the fact that we do not have the law on the traits of the Republic of Serbia for so long. Who's going to amnest you out of responsibility for not allowing the President of the Republic to say better what you've done to prevent him from exercising his constitutional jurisdiction? Are you aware of that responsibility at all? Are you aware of the responsibility you have in front of the citizens of Serbia and many other things? Are you aware of your responsibilities to the citizens of Serbia for all those promises you have made to them all these years, for a thousand euros of free action, for the promised hundreds of thousands of jobs, for a country in which life will be a little boring because of the well-being in that country, for the accelerated prosperity of the village, for the accelerated entry into the EU, for the sweet and easy life union, as you say - the Union of prosperity? That's why not passing one of these laws, the law of distinctions, in relation to everything I've said and in relation to all the other things you've done so far, when you've committed a really great sin with your actions or inaction towards the citizens of Serbia, and it's not a great sin at this point. Instead of all these promises, what do we have? A fog in the form of a simple pre-election lie about a thousand euros in free action, dozens and dozens, and soon hundreds of thousands of workers who will be out of work to join the army of unemployed, disreputed, hungry, poor. We got a poor and miserable village, which can be compared to the one from the '40s and '50s last century. And have the peasants and the farmers earned any medals so far? Did they deserve medals for their work, for their production and everything they've done so far, all these years since you've been in power? Did you know that agricultural producers from the Chacan region, just for a little while I'm going to look back on it, and fruitcakes of sub-catabla and divided villages this year produced hundreds of apple wagons that have no one to buy three dinars, Mr. Minister? Nobody cares about that. They're not looking for a medal for this. They don't need a Serbian state medal for everything they've done, for everything they've produced. They do not need medals for all these years that keep social peace in Serbia. They just need the state's concern for everything they're doing. Hundreds of cars of organic healthy food are failing because the state has no worries about buying it out. There are a lot of other products that also fail in the country and I say that our agricultural producers really don't ask for it, and they don't need any medals. It seems to you that only the lesson in ethics, which says that not those who promised, is important to you, but those who believed in it. Will the proposed law on distinctions satisfy one of the basic settings, one of the main sentiments that applies here, and that's that whoever's after medals didn't deserve it, and whoever deserves it doesn't need it? Will, according to the provisions of this law, the distinctions be given to those who are truly the best, those who are because of their deeds, because of their extraordinary merits for the state, really deserve to be decorated and given and carried? Could these decorations be used for other purposes? Will she be assigned, as they say, to the best of the worst? The proposed law on distinctions has many shortcomings. Some of them are technical, but they're more essential. In our amendments, we have foreseen something that the Proposer did not seem to have thought of by doing this bill. We envisioned the establishment of a new Order, a medal for strengthening Serbian spirituality and culture, as an order to be awarded to the highest church dignitaries. Why? What's the explanation for this? If the Serbian Orthodox Church can assign certain signs and medals to the greatest statesmen, why, in this law, as one of the Orders, would the Order not be provided for church dignitaries? In line with this proposal, we have foreseen in certain members the way and procedure of this assignment, who makes proposals and everything about this. Believe me, as there is one saying, that roses are not bought to those who are cheaper than flowers, so they should not be awarded medals to those who do not deserve them, but only to those who are due to their extraordinary deeds and merits to receive and bear them. Is there any reason to speak against the fact that the Order, which we have provided for church dignitaries, should be assigned to our living saint, Patriarch Paul, for all that he has done during his life for the care, preservation and strengthening of Serbian spirituality and culture? I don't think there really is a single fact that would speak against this. I believe that this amendment should be considered and accepted in particular. He needs to be accepted for many reasons. It should be accepted because it is a living saint, it is a man who has done much to preserve Serbian spirituality. I think there really should be one general consensus about this. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed law speaks of the award Articles 12, 13, 14 and 15 regulate this matter. Our main objections are to Article 14(2) and Article 15(3) in this department on the award of medals. In accordance with Article 14(2), it is regulated that the proposal for the award of medals is submitted to the Office of Orders in writing, with an explanation, and that is fine. However, a question arises within what time. Something's been dropped here. I ask the question – is it the same thing that the Office of the Order accepts proposals, for example, January 25th for those assigned in February, or June 25th, for those medals that are awarded in June? Normally, that's not the same thing, that this should actually be presented to one normal, decent and reasonable deadline in which the Orden Office would be presented with suggestions for medals. Article 15(2) states that no one can be decorated by the same order or medal in a lower degree than the one which has already been decorated, and that is fine. A different solution would in some ways devalue an earlier medal or medal, or perhaps even devalue the person to whom the medal is assigned. However, in paragraph 2 of this Article, an exception is prescribed, which says that an order or medal holder may be awarded the same medal, or medal, but the promoter says – in the same degree. We don't think this is a good solution. We believe he can be awarded the same medal, or medal, but in the highest degree. Because, for example, if someone gets an order or medal in the same degree and you give him a medal again in the same degree, there are all the reasons I said earlier about devaluation of this. That's why we think we should assign a medal or medal here in the highest degree. Section VI regulates the solemn handing of medals. Our suggestion refers to the solemn handing of medals abroad. Here we propose that the Foreign Ministry adopt a certain regulation that will regulate this issue. So we're asking the Foreign Ministry to set up a special rule to hand over medals abroad, which will regulate who these medals are presented to abroad, the process of handing over, the way in which the records are kept, etc. The rule set out in this position we have proposed would be passed within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Often, wealth and fame are dominant factors in the assignment of public recognitions and medals, and since it is said that wealth and fame are like salt water, that the more you drink – the more thirsty you are, the more often it is that richer and famous are increasingly thirsty new and new fames, new riches, and then, God, and new medals, recognitions and medals. Therefore, it is necessary to set clear and precise criteria for who is so many friends of the Serbian people abroad, who is such a friend of the Serbian state that he deserves to be awarded the highest national medals by his works. Experience teaches us that during history, much has been wrong in identifying these friends of ours, in honoring our friends, and as Sartre says – experience is the best school, only here is the tuition expensive. Therefore, we believe that a much more rational solution would be that, as we have proposed in Article 19, a comprehensive regulation would be adopted, to do so by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to establish clear and uniform criteria in that Regulation, as well as a way to assign and any other relevant questions related to the award of medals abroad. Article 21 of the same chapter regulates the question of what if a decorated person dies, or what if a legal person ceases to exist. The promoter here brings us the solution that in this case the medal is returned to the Office of the President of the Republic, which again decides what to do with this distinction, or decides to give that award to the museum. We're proposing a brief procedure. Why burden the president's office or the president with this? It is simply necessary to resolve this issue in such a way that such medals for those who die or for a legal person who, meanwhile, ceases to exist go directly to the museum, in the manner and procedure as envisaged. Article 21(3) regulates the case if someone refuses to receive a medal. We think this attitude is inconclusive, because it doesn't regulate, in fact, what's going to happen to those traits that come back. You know, there's been a certain procedure, the medals have been assigned, they're coming back, and in that case -- what's going on with these medals? It's unaligned, it's nothing. We suggest that, according to the same procedure, these medals go to the museum, according to the procedure provided for by law. We think it's an adequate solution, that it's just a complement to this attitude and that it should be accepted. Furthermore, Chapter VII regulates the confiscation of distinction. Here we also propose a supplement of attitude 1, and so it is predicted that the distinction is mandatory for those who are legally sentenced to a five-year sentence and more. We believe, Mr. Minister, this is about the obvious unworthyness of wearing a medal. It's very serious crimes, for example. the acts of child pornography, the criminal acts of child sexual abuse, the promises of a minor, etc. Let's just think of it as the word of Dostoyevsky, who says, if the world calmly looks at an innocent child being tortured by some rude, then I return the ticket. I think for these serious crimes, it is mandatory to assume that the bearer of such distinction must return the medal. On the other hand, it should be strictly kept in mind that some who have committed a lot of evil to this people are not on the list for the award of honor. Because, you know, it belongs to them, in fact, some other Order. To them belongs the Order of Merit against the People. We don't have that kind of medal, but it belongs to them - a medal of merit against their people. And when the state of Serbia is a legal state, a state that is regulated and in which laws do not selectively apply to certain categories, those who have ruined the state of Serbia will only get bars with golden rays. And it's some medal they don't have, which they'll probably get, because they deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27260	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam President, the Honorable Mr. Minister, has finally come before us, I can say - a controversial bill of law, because there was already a controversy in parliament in 2005, if you remember, when Mr. Predrag Markovic tried to propose a law on distinctions. The main reason for removing the law from the agenda was that it was suspected that the Crown Council was behind the law, although it was evident that the bill was done professionally, at the highest level. Indeed, much more depicted what Serbia, when the law regulates decorations, is needed at this time and in general in relation to the historic moment of Serbia and the history of Serbia's tradition. The 1998 law, which has been awarded more than 14,000 medals in time, has significantly devalued the institution of distinction and I think that by passing this law, very unwittingly, unknowingly tries to return the institution of excellence to Serbia. Laws can be roof, basic, indicative, but this is a law of conscience, honor, and even the responsibility of the state to extraordinary works and achievements in its immediate past. Like all that is available to people, everything is, of course, immediately subject to corruption, abuse, and this law in several of its members at least hints or leaves the possibility of being subject to serious, primarily political abuses and acquisitions or increasing power. The relationship to the traits in one country aims, as well as the law that regulates it, to impose a certain profile of honor and action on individuals, to which, as an example, we should look at ourselves. The medals don't have a future. They only have the past, and the goal of their existence is to act in the future. So this is a law that, with regard to the extraordinary works of the past, sketches our moral aspirations, even determines them, and all of our social ethics in the future. Every different attitude of the state towards the traits devalues them and lowers them to the level of the djinn or the cheap coin to bribe party personnel, and thus raising the worst flaw to the virtue of party obedience and half-tronity. This bill of law is anal and slightly impersonal. That's what I truly and utterly resent. He completely annuls the Serbian tradition, discussed by previous speakers. The lightest personal examples of national history have been disfigured and disappeared, and only general categories have been introduced. Serbia knows 13th-century medals and in this way, turning to the traditional, already known features of the Serbian state, we should preserve and cultivate awareness of our own eternal authentic statehood, which we should not be ashamed of and which, as some other countries in Europe, we should safeguard, to look proudly at it. All we can think of is France, which would never, under any circumstances, give up the Order of the Legion of Honor. At this point in France, there are over 700,000 living carriers of this highest French distinction. Nowhere in modern society and state, as Serbia tends to be and all of us, by our modest contribution, strive to make it, such a bill cannot be quality and long-lived if its work does not take into account the overall experience of the European countries at least and their legislation, above all traditions. We all know what these countries in Europe are doing to preserve their tradition precisely in this regard to the medals of the most deserved, according to the attitude of the state and those of the citizens who represent this country the most honorable and magnificent in the world. They introduce new ones, but they don't undo those who make them recognizable. This law is not a function of strengthening the institutions of distinction, that's what I resent. He should define a country that is worthy of merit and who is to be seen as worthy. This law has a role to play, and it is not hidden, especially in Article 14 and Article 24, to strengthen the position, power and influence of only one political position and one political person representing it. At no time, in any order, there is no National Assembly in any position, the highest national legislative body, even declaratively. The concentration of power in this way is dangerous, in democracy the most dangerous, so those who resort to that heroin power can crash very quickly, as well as any heroin, into the ambis. What is the purpose of assigning an order or recognition of a state to an individual or a collective? What's the content of these decorations? This law required much more expertise to be explained. It cannot and must not be left to one office and to a very problematicly proposed commission, which will be determined again by one man with one of his close associates, so he and the president of the state. The medals don't belong and they're not the personal fluids of the president of the state, they're the peoples and history and the traditions of a nation. If the whole law was made only to give President Boris Tadic one more role, a protocolal award of distinction, as a subject of little more power, then this law will miss its goal completely in life, but also in history, and it will not help us even that excuse that - whoever misses the goal, guesses everything else. Citizens have long not lived for that model of conduct that was called in communist times and was very popular - Pinky saw Tito, so it could only live on that memory for a long time. Citizens have long expected to see what values this Serbia wants to favour, which moral values and principles will be examples and desirable in our future, because these events from the near past show us that we have a serious problem with this. If that happens one more time, and it's already seen in history as "deja vu" syndrome, it only comes down to the court of one party, it could happen again, like "deja vi" syndrome, that some in history have said -- I don't admit to those parties. The distinction is certainly a kind of contract between a deserved individual or a collective and a state. This is the orderly relationship of those who make the state about how the state will boast, pride and promote the works of responsible individuals and collectives, and how the merited individuals and collectives will further represent that state, they commit to each other. According to the distinctions, therefore, we must have an extremely responsible relationship and it cannot be reduced to just 33 members of a law that, behold, we need to do away with and which is likely to have some future congregational majority in this same building to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27262	Is anyone else answering from the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving to take part in the debate according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in principle on the proposal for a law on distinctions. The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27263	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill is a highly restrictive approach to this issue. A sharp cut is being made when it comes to traditional medals in Serbia and are neglecting some key figures and events from the history of the Serbian people. There is no mark that would bear the names of historical figures such as St. Stefan, St. Sava, Emperor Dusan, Milos Obilić, Karadjordje, Milos Obrenović. There are no medals of victory and famous battles, no heroes from earlier and more recent history of the Serbian people. When making and adopting such a law, it was necessary to take a deeper and wider view of the problems, classify decorations and recognitions and by categories, for example - war, civil, state, general and, of course, by degrees - the first, second, third degree, and to maintain, as far as possible, continuity in terms of tradition, history and statehood. It is clear that it is necessary to pass one of these laws because the 1998 law, as colleagues pointed out, is not appropriate today. However, we tried to improve our amendments a little bit of this bill, hoping that the promoter would understand and accept some of them, if not all. I'll take my turn. The amendment that we have made to Article 8 clearly states that the six orders proposed, sorted by degrees as they are in the Bill's proposal, is not enough to satisfy what is needed, socialally indeed, and that is to introduce and decorated in the fields of science, culture, so we have tried to improve that attitude with our proposal. In this way Serbia would repay not only the winners of the medal, but also the greats of its history, science, culture, educations whose names they bear. It is these medals that represent the specificity of our country's relationship to the past, towards the future, and without them, the law of distinctions would be incomplete and without the necessary strength and dignity that should be borne with them by state distinctions. On Article 9, we tabled an amendment and proposed another medal -- the Milos Obbilic Medal of Courage, as the highest degree of something a Serbian citizen can gain. Of course, as a soldier, a warrior, it's very important to me, but it's also very important to all the warriors who have defended this country in the past and who, hopefully, will defend it again if necessary. Article 11 regulates the monuments. It's extremely short. It is mentioned only that monuments are assigned to mark events of great importance for the Republic of Serbia. In our earlier legislation, we had Albanian monuments, monuments 1941-45 and some other monuments. In any case, according to this bill, monumental bearers are reduced to thank-you donors. We believe that this is not good, and as a representative of the Veterans Movement, and otherwise with the agreement of the MP's club, I have submitted an amendment where we have introduced another position, which says that the monuments are: the Memorial of participation in the defence of the country from 1990 to 27 April 1992 and the Memorial for participation in the defence of the country in 1999, respectively, by NATO aggression. Of course, the thing is, according to this bill, the President of the Republic will give or won't, but I believe that the people who created and defended this country, especially in 1999, deserve this kind of recognition from the state. Article 15 clearly defines everything that is written, however, we have proposed that paragraphs 3 and 4 be deleted. We believe that in paragraph 3, which reads: “The same medal, in the same degree, can be awarded to the Order or Medals. ” That's what some colleagues used to say. We believe that the same medal of the same degree is the same person's actual devaluation of a confession and we think it should be erased. The amendment to Article 24 is said to add a new position 2, which reads: "I cannot take away the Order of Heroes, the Order of the Karadjordjev Star, the Order of White Eagles with Swords, the Order of Merit for the State of Nemanja, the Golden Medal of Courage "Milos Obilic" and the Silver Medal of Courage. “ It is clear that there was a big dilemma about whether the president could take away someone’s medal, but we do not think that this article is well defined as taking away any medals and that this should be corrected and complemented here, and we hope that this will happen. However, one acquired medal, whether it's a medal or a monument, if someone got it, obviously got it based on his heroism, his heroism, and it can't just be taken away because the political or ideological structure in the state has changed. It should be complete that it can only happen in the case of the most serious crimes, possibly high treason and so on. This left a wide range of space that, by changing the political structure, even such things could happen, that someone who defended the state was very much in favour of it, even being wounded or killed, by some move just took away. We believe that out of these five amendments, the Proposer could accept all five, but I hope he accepts as many as possible to speed up this bill as possible. In that sense, in the next few days, we'll talk to the promoter, and we'll see. As far as the bill itself is concerned, its needs for adoption and our vote – yes, we will vote for it in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27264	Thank you, Mr. Dujovic. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam President, I have already said that I believe that there are significant shortcomings in the text of the law, that it will indeed have to be replaced. I think more attention should have been paid to that proposal that was not discussed here, which was professionally done since 2005, and which may have had a major flaw in the fact that the Crown Council was behind it, but it really had excellent solutions and it had a truly Serbian tradition of distinction and the highest attitude of the state towards the medals and the deserved citizens. First of all, that remark refers to Article 8, where the medals are numbered. We really believe that a personal solution from national tradition and history should be introduced between medals or bar medals. The memory we know is what it is. What I've turned my attention to is Article 14, who's made us dissatisfied. I'm afraid that in point 1, where the list of people who can propose everything to an individual or the collectives for decorations, there are associations, it should be a little more specific than not, and we've discussed a lot of associations, and we know how much the institution of the association is the subject of use and abuse, there are some consequences that we will not be proud of through history, and certainly as a people, it's important to all our decorated and deserved citizens, and individuals and collectives, we're always proud and always come back as the brightest examples. Article 3 of the same article says: "With a proposal for the award of distinctions to foreign citizens, foreign legal persons and international organisations, the proposed promoter also delivers the opinion of the foreign affairs ministry." I think we should consult the National Assembly here, because all our relations with abroad are done on behalf of the people, and this is the highest body represented by the people and where the voice of the people can be heard by the rule. Also, in the last position of this same member – "The President of the Republic can grant distinction and self-initiative", I think he should have put some of the conditions under which he can. Because the president of the state won't always be the same person, I guess there will be some other party attitudes and other political options, so that all of them will have to have some limits under which they can award medals. What we also considered an under-determined solution is the Commission for Fines, which is presented here: "The Commission for Fines is educated by the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, and the President of the Republic is appointed by the presidents and members of the Commission from the ranks of prominent figures in the Republic of Serbia." It's a very broad notion of who are prominent personalities. Whether it will only be party personalities or be representatives of some institutions that are by their nature made up of these most prominent figures. This was to determine which respected members of the commission, from which lines they would be delegated so that they could decide. Because, watch out, we have two kinds of medals, both military and civil decorations. So, who are these people who will be competent to measure this most sensitive thing in determining the most responsible citizens. We also considered the troubled office of the Order. It has to work, and it was also much more precise to determine its rights and obligations. We've also put the amendment on Article 22, so it can't be charged when a copy of the lost medal is requested. We think the minister, who is not here but who is in charge of understanding for this amendment, will. It really isn't right for a minister in charge of this law not to be present today. In its fourth position, Article 24 states: “The President of the Republic can take away distinction and self-initiative. ” Such a sentence and such a legal provision devises the entire law, as well as in that article where it can self-initiatively give a medal. The President of the Republic is the President of all citizens and must consult the citizens and cannot be so self-initiative that he has the honor, reputation and brightest examples in the history of a nation, which are precisely marked by medals. These are our most important objections to this law. And the fact that the law has only 33 members, makes it, as I said, very shrewd, very short and very unspeakable and should certainly be seriously improved if we want to undo the one from 1998, which we thought was completely unacceptable from today's point of view, that is, from today's perspective of modern Serbia, as we want it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27266	Thank you. The word is made by Professor Dragoljub Micunovic, a folk MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27267	President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, one such law, of course, also causes certain emotions and reminiscing in history, and I fear that the real purpose and purpose of such laws are then lost. With these laws, we haven't had much luck in a long time. We had a law, which I remember, back in 1975. Tito signed it, had about 25 medals. It was most important there to describe how thick the gold was, how many diamonds there would be, etc. Then the members of the presidency would walk, give these medals to statesmen of other countries and these countries, and then these medals remain, of course, owned. That could have gotten a handful of diamonds through those medals. The story that the Orders can be enriched is also known by French President Giskar Desten and those affairs with Bokas etc. So you can talk about the Ordens from some other point, not just a pathetic one, which is what it's all about. Ordens have two purposes. One is to mark certain significant personalities and, second, certain values. Things have changed in history. The Orders used to bear the names of saints, so they were the main orders of certain states that represented some forms of theocracy. Later, army leaders took over the staff, so the Ordens wore the names of some warlords, etc. Later, lately, and if you look at it today, it's going more and more towards a kind of abstraction, so there are medals of freedom, medals of dignity, nations, etc. So it is also possible to approach it from one aspect of historical significance. But I'd still look at it a little bit on the funny side. At Radoj Domanović, in "Stradija", they assigned in the last government of Aleksandar Obrenović, formerly Milan, so many medals for all the wars that Milan had lost, that many had no place to hold the medals, so they were pushed by carts, or so many lucky captains, captain or minister had medals. So in that period, let's say SFRY etc., there were even rules. Every official who's 60 years old - the Order of Heroes of Work. Radio, no radio - that medal goes. He, of course, has a few rubies on the gold base, and that's how it went. Ordens serve, among other things, many regimes and as a form of corruption, by first dividing themselves with the most powerful of all, and thus exchanging each other. So I have a different understanding according to the Orders. There was one proposal from the previous president of the Markovic Assembly, which made the Crown Council. There were so many feudal elements, or any country could bring it back to the 16th or 17th century. Of course, it did not fit at any price, by the form of assignment, by these offices, or by the acts that were obtained by them, etc. Sometimes the medals are tied to certain privileges, certain compensations. So there's a lot of elements in them. I admit this law doesn't satisfy me, because it's a lot of smut made, not always principled, and some points are confusing. I don't know what Article 4 means where it's said that the order of the foreign state or international organisation cannot be worn without the permission of the Foreign Ministry. I don't understand that purpose, if someone gets an order of a state that they can't put it on and that they have to ask for approval. Is that approval once and for all? Let's say, if someone gets an Order of the Legion of Honor or some other medal of dignity, Italian, etc., does every time they go to a state holiday reception need to ask for the Ministry's approval or is it once and for all? If it is once, then let's see by what criteria these medals are given. In our recent history, in addition to that inflation in socialism, which lasted a long time, and everyone in that nomenclature had to be girded by these medals, there came a period of war and we came to a new inflation of medals. This is where someone was talking about the Wealths and so on. We know who assigned all these medals to Obilić, with which right and how many of these bounties were. There were various dukes, generals of the bearers of Obilić's medals. It was shared in hand and hat, and I don't know what's going on with those titles and medals right now. The other problem that exists in fact is the attitude to previous orders. It used to be arranged. For example, Karadjorjev's star was evened out with an Albanian monument or some other one, which had certain privileges, mostly small and small, in free traffic or something like that. There is a need for this continuity to be seen, not for the Crown Council or anyone to assign the Karadjorje's stars. Wait, I've got my father and Karadjord's star and the Albanian monument, so if inflation starts now, that any Crown Council or anyone is out there, there's a question of what's going on with those previous Karadjord's stars and what are we gonna do with them. So what I'm saying is that we need to approach this thing in two ways. One way is technically, because we need one law. It is certain that it interferes with our normal diplomatic relations, because when our officials or the head of state or someone goes to a foreign country, they now need to give him an order, and he doesn't know what to fight back, and that's always bilateral somewhere. I'm sure it's necessary. It is also necessary to apply it so restrictively that certain things are valued from our history, but I am also worth not only various generals, kings, etc., but also our scientists. We should also have the Order of Nikola Tesla or Milankovic, etc., because that is how we introduce ourselves to the world. Obviously this has been done quite quickly and this law certainly deserves to be discussed more seriously, without any pathetic, trying to see what it is that we want to point out to the world as our value, and in this respect we do not slave to tradition or any ease of giving ordnance and inventing some new names. I don't know, it's probably possible to fix these shortcomings later, especially these details about the carrying of foreign states, organizations, some old medals. But in the end, to be a little funny again. I've been in Moscow recently, there in Arbat you've got like some kind of flea market and you can get an order from the Suvors, the Kutuzovs and whoever you want, the grandkids who need it for a allowance and they sell it. It's not always about eternal time. Times change. There's a lot of people to be rewarded that someone else remembers, but let's not make any big drama out of it. We need one such law and it's good for him to be much more organized than who he is now. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27268	I thank Professor Micunovic. The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27269	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would first of all like to express my surprise that the Serbian Government has proposed to be its envoy to the minister of trade and services. With all due respect, Mr. Minister, I believe that here, at the very least, he should have been the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, since he is mentioned in this law, or even the President himself, but certainly one of the Deputy Prime Ministers, or even the Secretary of Defense, or even the Secretary of State for Defence. Your presence here implies some strange thesis. Of course, I don't think so, but maybe a lot of people want to think that your presence yesterday, during the debate on the laws of defence and security and the military, implies that it might be some kind of trade between our military and some of the services our army is about to provide, because it's your function in the Serbian government. Or, say, your presence today implies that we might want to trade in medals, medals, monuments. I repeat, with all due respect to you, that the government is making such mistakes all the time, and I think that such mistakes should stop already. I know what our country is in and that many citizens of Serbia are not very interested in this topic today. More likely, they are interested in the conditions of existence, given that the vast majority of citizens live in very difficult conditions. I think maybe it shouldn't have been so hasty with this law, although I think it is necessary for a serious state like Serbia should be, unless the president of the Republic wants to reward his government at the end of the term for the "thanks" it has done for Serbia. This law is necessary, but I think it's inconclusive, and I fully agree with my predecessor. I think it's unspeakable and it means it's just a break in the tradition of the Order system in Serbia. And you, in the light of this law, say that the adoption of this law and the establishment of the Order system of the Republic of Serbia would allow for the continuation of the practice of awarding distinctions as moral recognitions that confirm and glorify useful work for the state, undertaking or virtue (courage, humanity, etc.). And that, finally, medals play a historically significant role in building a defence system. I don't see the content of the law confirming your argument. I'll put it in a few examples. An example that speaks of the Ordens, that's point 8, mentions a total of six medals. Among them, there are not many medals that have existed so far that represent the tradition of the Serb people and the Serbian Order System. It's, like, a National Hero Order. I'm not talking about partisans and Chetniks. I'm talking about the Order of a People's Hero, who existed. I'll give you a few examples. In the last war, in 1999, the National Hero Order received several brigades that fought for Serbia's territorial integrity, namely for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. These are the 549th Motorised Brigade, commanded by General Boza Delic, today vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, the 125th Brigade of Kosovo Mitrovica, the 37th Brigade of Raska, the 63rd Parabar Brigade, the PVO, rackets, etc. What do you tell the members of those brigades and how to explain to them that their medals, the Order of the People's Hero, are being abolished and what to tell the wounded from those brigades? What do you tell the families of the dead from those brigades? I'm not talking about God's Delic, my colleague. He forgot to say that he has more medals, let's say the Order for military virtues, besides others, next to the Order of Courage and the Order of the War Flag of the Second Order and the Order of the People's Hero who received on behalf of his brigade. How do you explain to these people why these medals are being abolished? That's one thing. Secondly, instead of all the generals, senior officers, lower officers, officers and soldiers who fought for Serbia's freedom in 1999 to win a medal against NATO aggression, they received mostly pensions, transfers and cancellations. Generals in the best life force were replaced and retired at 45, 47, 48, many were leaving without an apartment. Let's say, a few weeks ago, General Zdravko Ilisavcic retired, he didn't get an apartment. I'm not saying that every general has to get an apartment, but we're witnessing that many lower officials in the state sector get apartments in a few months or a few years without talking about the villas of many of our ministers. By order of foreign mentors, almost all those who fought for Serbia and Kosovo's freedom and the Metohija have been replaced. What about some other medals that have been left out? The Order of the Karajord stars. If it's not a tradition of the Order system and the tradition of the Serb people, then I really don't know what it is. For eight centuries, there has been a traditional medal, which is simply abolished by this law and introduces a new order, which I respect and appreciate, and I would sign all of this, but if traditional Serbian medals, Serbian medals and medals were added. It was abolished, which is really very ugly, Medal of Courage "Milos Obilic". If there is greater recognition for the courage of a member of the Serbian Army, then it is a silver, or gold medal for the courage of Milos Obilic. It's been there for centuries. It's simply not in your proposal. There is no Takovsky Cross, which was awarded on December 6, 1876. First, Second, Third, Fourth Battalion of the Standing Army has received the Takowski Cross. Unfortunately, there's nothing in your proposal. Article 9, paragraph 2, reads: "The medal for courage has two degrees (gold and silver medal) and is assigned for works in which personal courage or actions have come... '"As far as I know, the Medal of Courage is awarded in war action. It's mandatory to give it here. Of course, whoever calls for war happened to him in the house. No one in their right mind wants a war, but this is a technical mistake, where the Medal of Courage "Milos Obilic" is given for war facts. And here it goes, which I completely agree with: '...' or for works where, in extremely dangerous situations, the saving of human lives or material goods has been shown extraordinary courage and self-burning.' But we must not leave out what is truly a medal for the courage of Milos Obelić. As for the monuments, it's Article 11, I have my grandfather's memorial in the house. He was neither Partizan nor Chetnik, simply responding to his recruitment in 1941 in that short April war. He was wounded, interned and later killed. He's got a monument, and in my house, that monument has an honorary place. We cannot define a monument in this law with one sentence: "Memorys are assigned to mark events of great importance for the Republic of Serbia". It doesn't mean anything. It's an ordinary flossula that means nothing. You know what a monument is. I think this really has to be reworked. I'd still like to say that I'm very sorry that yesterday was at a session where there was a debate about the law on defence, security, the law on the military, there was only one brigade general here, it was the most important act of generality, and it was a very short period of time, and there was one colonel all along. I expected, the right to tell you, to have the entire College of General Staff here, because it is basic laws that define Serbia's defence and security. There's something else I need to tell you. The co-operation that is so discussed with the National Guard of the state of Ohio in America is, in my opinion, humiliating for the famous Serbian army. It's actually a territorial defense, an army in reserve, it's not a regular U.S. Army. I don't mind working with the regular army of any state. My heart is telling me one thing-- I wouldn't, but reason tells me that we have to cooperate, but not with territorial defense. Well, Duke Misic, Stepa Stepanovic, Traveller and Bojovic roll over in the grave when our commanders salute the sergeants and territorial defenses, or the national guard of the small state of Ohio. One more thing I noticed. All our generals together don't have as many medals as one American sergeant has. At least you can see it in the movies. All our generals don't have as many medals as one sergeant of territorial defense can. All over the world, every credit is given to the Order, and we need a man to die in the war defending Serbia so that he may be a candidate for the Order. I think it should be corrected and this law should be returned to the government for the sake of my opinion that no amendments have been made, and we from the SNS have submitted them really much, can hardly be corrected. Therefore, the SNS proposal for the bill to return to work and get one quality proposal, which will respect everything that has been submitted by colleagues and other parliamentary groups from the SNS to their amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27270	Thank you, Mr. Pelevic. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm going to look back at a few more situations and a few more facts regarding some new solutions that we have provided for our amendments to the proposal for this law on distinctions. I will refer again to the establishment of a new Order, a medal for strengthening Serbian spirituality and culture, which we foresee for the assignment of church dignitaries, and I will refer in particular to the confiscation of medals in cases where the one who has received the medal has been convicted of a serious crime for which the sentence of five years and greater has been provided. As for this first situation that I've just said, I can tell you that the bill of distinction at the very least, not to use a more difficult word, does not take into account the principle of reciprocity in the award of distinction. If medals can be accepted by state officials and certain prominent political figures, then personalities from public, cultural, sports, etc. Life by the Serbian Orthodox Church, as the greatest medals that the SPC, the patriarch and the Holy Synod assign to these persons, why wouldn't the state predict, as the highest award, a single medal for the highest church dignitaries? I will remind you of a medal that was established in 1883, at the time of the reign of King Milan Obrenovic. It's about the Order of the Holy Sava. This Order was originally the king, and then the SPC decorated the most responsible people for spiritual, enlightening, and humanitarian work. Today, the Order is assigned by the patriarch and the Holy Synod. So that's what I was talking about before. The Order is assigned to the institution, i.e. It's hand-carried and carried by a person who's on her forehead. There's an order of first, second and third order. So, I'm talking about the Order of St. Sava. I'll read to you who has been assigned by SPC, the Patriarch and the Holy Synod lately. So far, Bogoljub Karic (the businessman of the system "Brothers Karić", remember Bogoljub Karic); Dejan Boiroga, basketball player; Vlade Divac, basketball player, won the Order of the Second Order; Vladeta Jerotic, writer and psychiatrist; Miroslav Miskovic, businessman "Delte"; Milka Forcan, businessman "Delte"; Slobodan Radulović, businessman "Ce Market"; Obrad Pravić, businessman "Simensa"; Draško Petrović, businessman "Telekom Serbia"; Nenad Bogdanović, Mayor of Belgrade; Marko Petrovic, "Dunav Insurance"; Sinisa Nikolic, "Direction for Building Land and Construction of Belgrade"; Miroslav Gligorijević, businessman "Titan Komerca", Kosjerić received the second order of Natural History and Culture from the Republic. So, if all those in recent years were able to get or receive the Order of the Holy Sava, as the highest order assigned by the Patriarch and the Holy Synod of the SPC, why should we, too, in the Bill of Features, not according to the principle of reciprocity, if for no other reason, say at least by the principle of reciprocity, and otherwise there are a number of stronger reasons for this, which I was talking about in part and before this, that this is one order of merit for the strengthening, care and preservation of Serbian spirituality and culture, is assigned to one of the greatest church dignitaries of the SPC, and here I particularly think of Patriarch Paul. In addition to this, everything that had the mark of tradition and the national is not in this bill of distinction, starting with the kind of distinction you've predicted, up to the last member of this bill. I'll just tell you, for example, that in Republika Srpska it's not like that. Republika Srpska predicts the Medal of Petar Mrkonjic. The medal was won by Petar First Karadjordjevic, who participated in the rebellion in Nevesinj in 1875 under the pseudonym Petar Mrkonjic. That rebellion is more known as the Nevesin rifle. Republika Srpska also has Orden Milos Obilic. Republika Srpska has Orden Nemnjic, which was established in 1993. The medals of the importance of Republika Srpska are the first - the Order of Republika Srpska, the second - the Order of Nemanja, the Order of the Star of Karadjordje, the Order of Milos Obbilic, the Order of Negos and the Cross of Mercy. You see how Republika Srpska thinks about tradition and how it thinks about those traditional medals, medals and medals that once existed, unlike you and unlike the bill. I will refer with a few more sentences to a specific situation relating to Article 22, item 1: "The distinction can only be worn by a decorated person, in a prescribed manner." I think this attitude is inconclusive, that it should actually stand here -- in a way prescribed by this law or by the sublegal acts that have been passed in accordance with this law. In order to avoid certain ambiguities, when just said - in a regulated manner, and when from this provision - in a prescribed way, it is absolutely not possible to assume or know where it is prescribed, I think that, for the sake of clarity and certain comprehensibility, it is necessary to add more - in a manner prescribed by this law or sublegal acts that have been adopted in accordance with this law. I'd like to add Article 23. I think we should make a certain addition to this article. Article 23. The draft law on distinctions applies to persons who have received distinctions under earlier rules. They say they have the right to wear those medals, and that's fine. However, we believe it is necessary to add that certain extensions, as well as the process of seizing these distinctions that have been passed under earlier regulations, should be settled in accordance with the rules of this law. In order not to be vague, in order to avoid certain misunderstandings in practice, I think it is entirely acceptable to accept this member. I'd also refer to taking away the medals. A moment ago, as an authorised representative, I was talking about a new solution, which we had foreseen regarding the confiscation of distinctions, which relate to the mandatory confiscation of the distinctions of those persons who have committed such serious and disgusting crimes, who are rightly convicted of these crimes, that it makes them absolutely inappropriate to bear the highest national honors. These are crimes for persons who have been sentenced to five or more years in prison. I'm going to say just a few examples of the Criminal Code, just reminding you of what crimes would be that would make an absolute inadequacy of a person to wear medals -- crimes against sexual freedom, among them -- a crime of rape. If the rape has resulted in the death of a person, or if this crime has been committed against a minor child, a sentence of five to 18 years is foreseen for this crime. A promise of an powerless person, if a promise has been made on this person and the death of a person like this has occurred, the sentence of prison is also prescribed for this crime from five to 18 years. A promise of a child, if the death of a child has occurred as a result of the act of this member, the perpetrator will be punished by a sentence of five to 18 years. Is the person who got the medal worthy of wearing a medal if it did such a disgusting crime? It is therefore necessary to provide specifically and clearly for the law on distinctions, that this will be one of the basic reasons for taking away the distinction. There's still a lot of crimes here. I would like to list some more, such as acts against constitutional arrangements and security of the Republic of Serbia, recognition of capitulation and occupation. Is he a person who's going to be a member of Article 306? To punish a criminal law with a penalty of at least 10 years, which represents one of the most difficult acts in our criminal law, worthy of wearing a medal? I'm sure it isn't, and I really think there are every reason to accept these amendments proposed by the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27272	In order, MP Bozidar Delic was reported. He's not in the O.R. right now. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, followed by MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the recommendation of some of this hall I will try not to be rational and pragmatic in my discussion with reminisce, pathetic, emotional, not to be encumbered by tradition, to be rational and pragmatic and to remind you, in my practical capacity, of the people and the nation. Because they obviously don't smell. In this spirit and in this context, it can be concluded that all happiness is that Serbia, by emergency procedure today in this assembly, is discussing this law and that finally in the voting day, if you succeed in ensuring most of it, you will get this law. There is an impression, in the public and here amongst us MPs, that the adoption of such a law will finally round up a set of laws that makes up the spectrum of our respective constitutional powers of our very president, which, based on and in accordance with this, will finally begin its constitutional powers to exercise. All the problems in this country have been solved by him and by the representatives of the government, all we have left is to define by law the medals and medals and to live happily ever since today in Serbia, that is, from the day of adoption of this law, we all live happily ever after. I will not enter into the motives and reasons why this law, by emergency procedure, came to this session on the agenda. I suppose you do, too. Whether it's an expression of some compromise, trade or disagreement -- it doesn't matter. But you, as the minister representing the Government here, will agree that the same government in the procedure was sent to the Assembly, if not more, at least ten other laws that had reasons and justifications to be on the agenda before this, to discuss them because they would essentially improve, or at least try to improve life in Serbia, which would give answers to many economic issues for which, among other things, you are in charge, from the field of social policy and many other areas that have been mutilated, which are truly doing and are a problem today in Serbia. Like this, we get the impression that everything's nice, that our roses are blooming. All we have to do is work this out and we'll be happy and happy. Instead of dealing with laws that will remove regulatory bodies, commissions, we are once again adopting a law that will define two new bodies, for which we will have to define from the budget another six million, which is absolutely in agreement with your story on restrictive public spending. I agree, it's not big money, it's not big money for a country's budget, but it's quite the opposite of what you're talking about and it wasn't necessary to be the subject of debate in this assembly right now. In the SRS' view, this law will be just another one of the mechanisms in the hands of Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, who will benefit most from his political promotion. Such is at least the political experience we have in the past few years with the political establishment in Serbia. Everything is entrusted to him again. We understand that the Constitution predicts that certain constitutional powers belong to him, but we are afraid that, as so far, much will in practice be the subject of abuse. You wrote nicely in the light of this law that the tradition of the Serb people's orderly system, i.e. the people and citizens in Serbia, is long. We share that opinion. It's due to the fact that the genes of this people are primarily about courage, humanity, humanity, and mind. The answer to that may have been medals and medals. But, Mr. Minister, what is essentially a problem, in the SRS' view, is a system of values that the current political elite has been promoting for the last ten years, a system of values within which this law will arise or arise, through which criteria will be defined for the award of medals and rewards, through which individuals in committees and bodies will be elected, to define and choose those who will be rewarded and, in the end, those who will be decorated and rewarded themselves. What is this system of values, Mr. Minister? It is a system of values that promotes immorality quite often, which promotes debauchery, a system of values that promotes freedoms that are often not only on the border with lawlessness and lawlessness, many often crossing borders and entry into anarchy, a system of values that destroys and destroys the education system, a system of values that negates all traditional values that, objectively, for carriers and political elites in Serbia, represent shackles and ballast, all of which, as I said at first, smell and reminds the nation, the people, are really uncomfortable. Mr. Minister, in such a system of values, those who are to be rewarded and decorated -- will be retired, removed, replaced, often brought against them, as so far, charged, some will or will not be sent to The Hague or to other international courts, etc. These are the reasons why the SRS does not want to support this, which is why in the most serious and concrete way it contests everything that is the intention of the government. And because of the way you sent this to the assembly procedure, as it came to the agenda, we believe, even in the words of some who represent the government here, that the government has not committed itself to this essentially seriously, but only for the sake of order, but at the same time we do not want to challenge the meaning and importance of the medal and the definition of the prizes. Let some not worry whether foreign medals will be able to be worn through Serbia. Those who are now part of the founders of the system of values are proud of the Order of Danica of Croatia, such as Mrs Kandic, who was assigned by Stjepan Mesic, do not worry much whether or not they will be able to wear such medals in Serbia. I'll finish one sentence. What's also an imputation to the SRS to this law is that maybe you should have predicted an institute, some medal or an order, so that you collectively reward the people who are suffering all this, who have been going through all this for the past ten years, and we're convinced and we hope that it won't be for much longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27274	The word has a folk MP Sreto Peric, followed by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I need to begin my debate again with a question - are you the Minister of Capacity who can fully represent and represent this law on behalf of the Government? Namely, I don't want to challenge your personal qualifications, as we once understood each other. You're a doctor of economic science, you've doctored as a very young man, I appreciate that, but the question is whether you can adequately answer all the objections that were heard during this debate and which will be heard in the next period regarding the debate on the bill of distinctions. You could see that from all parties, even those who make up the congregation majority, there are serious objections to this law, and there are special objections from members of the SRS, as well as others currently in opposition. If you were to ask SRS lawmakers if this law should stand in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, we would say it should stand. But does he have his own indiscretions, does he have his faults? There's a lot of them. You said in the opening statement that it was a short, simple and precise law. It's the opposite of all that. This law has two more members than it does, it has a lot of misunderstandings and it's not accurate. It seems that you had the intention of discontinuity with the previous law, and you kept the technique and procedure when proposing, assigning, wearing and taking away the medals. It's absolutely identical to the 1998 SRJ law in force, only the number of medals, both in kind and in degrees, reduced and matched probably a new system of values. For a wonderful miracle, there is now something called emotion and what is wanted to suggest, above all to the MPs of the SRS - do not enter emotions when discussing the proposals for laws coming from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, we are emotional people, we express our emotions elsewhere, but here we perform very pragmatically, studying legal proposals and giving our opinions on these proposals. I would like to go into an analysis of this law and I must say that several categories, very fundamental, never and in no way should be forgotten and must be highlighted at least in such laws, which are the Serbian Army, the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian Parliament. Someone mentioned the authority to the Serbian Parliament, or said that this law was not mentioned at all, except that it would pass this law, where it should have its place in practice. It should be allocated, as it could be predicted, this law is passed indefinitely, on an indefinite number of cases, as someone who will decide to grant recognition to the President of the Republic. I don't mean Boris Tadic, but institutionally the President of the Republic. If we know what it says in this law, how these medals are awarded, and if the President of the Republic is nominated for such a distinction, then only the relevant body or body could be the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 3 The draft law in paragraphs 1 and 2 says: "The medals can be awarded to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, domestic legal entities and other entities. The medals can also be awarded postmortem. “ It’s okay. I would like to comment on attitude 3, which says: "The medals can also be granted to foreign citizens, foreign legal persons and international organisations. “ This attitude may not have caused such attention to me if we hadn’t had the previous two days, so called, a debate on military laws in this room. Since we've had this debate, I have to comment, and I have reason to believe that perhaps in a hurry to pass this law, and this is the position of Article 3(3). It's a bill of law. I remind you that a secret NATO leadership meeting was held in Brussels on 13 March 1999, where, among other things, General Klaus Nauman, Wesley Clark, General Schwarzopf, General Anderson, General Rozman, Jacques Klein, William Walker and Bernard Kouchner were present. The secret meeting decided to bomb the SRJ on March 17th, but due to unfavourable weather conditions, it was delayed for March 24th. What's the deal at that secret meeting? There's been a few, I think about five conclusions. Special attention causes the fourth conclusion, but it is worth mentioning to others. Create the most optimal conditions, it is the group's first conclusion, for aggression in Yugoslavia by Operation "Aligator", to humiliate Yugoslavia, to defeat the military, to defeat the police in KIM and Yugoslavia. Another conclusion – in case of resistance, to destroy Yugoslavia with the most significant means, with the use of ammunition with impoverished uranium and caste bombs. The third conclusion -- the established international court in The Hague should rule by a swift procedure of political, military, police leadership of Yugoslavia. The conclusion four deserves special attention – in the case of resistance to Yugoslavia, civilians should be killed, bridges, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, water tanks, infrastructure, relays, trafo stations, power lines. By destroying the refineries, it causes an ecological disaster. Vinci should not be spared because the collapse of reactors creates opportunities for the rapid capitulation of Yugoslavia. Activating operation "Potkovica", i.e. through the KLA, prepare an alleged exodus of Albanian living who will withdraw to Albania and Macedonia, where they will wait for television teams of the world's largest media houses to perpetuate this as alleged atrocities of the Yugoslav military and police. The fifth conclusion -- create conditions for the creation of an independent state of Kosovo, which will function only with NATO's presence, and will remain, by their assessment, for about 20 years. There is also a sixth conclusion – if there is a rapid capitulation of Yugoslavia, determine the directions for the withdrawal of the military, capture military technical means and declare them a KLA war spoil. I've read these few names. I would like to announce in advance to the Serbian public that no one can ever think of these people, and knowing the current regime and the executive power of the Republic of Serbia, it is realistic that these participants of the secret meeting, who have made a decision on the bombing of Yugoslavia, may be potential candidates for the award of one of the honours under the law that the assembly's majority should adopt in some future period. It explains that one reason for the law to be passed is that the President of the Republic, in accordance with Article 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia could carry out one of its activities. It seems to me that the need to pass this law can be met by two groups. One is that the current president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, has been strengthened by the assignment of another, by the SRS, by serious business of awarding medals, but we believe that these medals should be earned. You could hear a very high-quality presentation from his colleague, Munjic, who, as an authorised representative of the SRS, said in the opening statement who deserved all of this. Of course, it is prescribed in the procedure, but only in some qualifications, as a national MP, who could be found as a potential candidate for getting that medal on the one hand, and on the other hand, perhaps even those who do not deserve to enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia to be candidates for the award of these recognitions. We cannot allow that, but a period of six years, during which Boris Tadic, headed by the Republic of Serbia as its president, could have brought the assembly majority or the proposing that we have a more high-quality bill related to the award of these medals. When it comes to bearing the recognition and distinctions granted by other countries or international organisations, it can also be commented, which is why such a question has been raised, but we believe that it would be sufficient by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to approve it once and that it is carried on all other occasions when it is prescribed. When it comes to Article 8, where exactly the orders established by this law were prescribed, we were able to take over almost all the medals provided for by the current 1998 Delicacy Act, except for a few who, due to the termination of the existence of the SRJ, would not be adequate because of the name, and all the other Ordens could be detained. Because whatever we say in the description of individual medals is assigned for courage, if there's a special medal for courage, it's more motivation. If there is a work order in each area, we can assign it, but it is certain that if it exists and as a specially planned work order, then we will motivate a greater number of potential candidates to compete, to have a positive competition, a positive creation. But to abolish a large number of other confessions, such as medals... This year has been promoted as the year of our scientist Milutin Milankovic, including Nikola Tesla, which existed before and now there are many others. Yesterday, a MP here asked us, first of all, by referring to the MPs of the SRS, if we know where the borders of the Republic of Serbia are. We certainly know and always say, as the citizens of Serbia know, that the borders of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, but the abandonment of Medal Obilić indicates that some of them don't think about it, because it historically brings us back to that period and now makes one positive depression on the citizens of Serbia that KIM always and at all times is Serbia and that through these qualities provided for by this law we need to know that this is the case. To improve the quality of this bill, the SRS submitted 18 amendments. In essence, it will not be a good law, to be applicable indefinitely, because the proposal did not allow such a possibility, but if Minister Milosavljevic wanted to deny me from the beginning of my debate, that he had the capacity to measurely decide what he was representing here, then he would say that this law should be withdrawn, completed and reinstated in the assembly procedure. We agree not to wait for a long period of time, but to have it in a relatively short period.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27276	The word has been given by MP Milan Avramovic, followed by MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I start with quality arguments and quality discussion about the Bill of Features proposal, I need to draw attention to a few facts. This is another law that envisioned the promotion of the president of the DS, which should give him powers to honour individuals in the country and abroad. I would like to remind you that the basic objection to the failure to grant such a distinction is the non-compliance of this law, although we of the SRS have submitted this bill in 2007, it seems to me in November. What is also specific is that the excuse for adopting such a law is the economic situation in the country. There is an explanation that the bill, which reduces the number of medals and medals, which in the previous draft law was about 30 medals and medals, while six medals and medals should be in this total, for economic reasons, less burden the Republic of Serbia's budget. So when we take these excuses and this way of working by which this government works, it is that it burdens the budget with something that does not burden it because it is not legally regulated, a clear question is why this law is now being passed, which is why it has not been passed before, and to what purpose does this law now have the obligation to promote the president of Serbia to award the medals and medals to which it comes. Let me remind you that such examples in the countries of the region have been large. I'll also remind you of some people who work in our country. For example, I would like to remind you that recently Ordeno Danica, Croatia with the character of Katarina Zrinska, Croatian President Stipe Mesic, decorated the president of the Fund for Humanitarian Law, Natasu Kandic. Slovenian President Danilo Tirk decorated NATO Secretary-General for Credits in strengthening international peace and security. What do we expect from the president of Serbia now? Whom will he count if he follows this fluid of European values? What I would essentially say about the law itself is that the responsibility of the president under Article 112 is Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to award medals and awards. That's why the president himself had to analyse this bill, and if not him, then this team or office that will deal with these assignments, to determine what all the shortcomings in this law are and why he even let him go into the assembly procedure, first on this kind of waiting, and second on the basic parameters that are particularly important for the person who assigns and not who he assigns it to, because after the situation of taking away medals or any other kind of medal, we can't blame the one who won the medal, but the one who gave it the medal. The general assessment of the bill is found in several ways. Consulting previous Ordenic systems, first of all from our rich experience, is the next impression - that the Bill of Delicacies is inadmissiblely simplified and so maimed in the national affirmative spectrum of large and famous cultural and historical, liberating, state-efficient and creative values of the Serbian people, that it is much worse than our previous relevant Orden systems, and this last 1998 SRJ. What is also important to note is that there is also a big difference between this bill on distinctions and orderly systems from the Principality of Serbia, the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and Republika Srpska, which is still unacceptable. It is because of this, the impression that this is not at all the same people's fates, faiths and traditions, history and culture of giants, but on the contrary, that the small-town and extra-city consciousness of tiny eyes is permanently undermined by Serbia, encourages discontinuity, awareness and seek differences, even animosities to the respective orderly systems, which must nevertheless be found to have been significantly more thorough in the sphere of historical freedoms, creative and other national affirmative values of the Serbian people. So, in this bill, the honors and medals that were clearly given as war were cast out. Such an attitude shows that it does not count at all on a possible war option against the Republic of Serbia and the Serb people for the next 50 or 100 years, which is a dangerous delusion with tragic consequences for our people and the state. I would also point out that the greats of Serbia are not at all devoted to the attention of this bill, in the sense that at least someone from that play, even the world's giants, is taken as an example and a recognition for the name of the Order or Medal. It's kind of a disgrace to this bill, I have to say it like that. This directly devalues not only these greats, but also degrades and underestimates the entire Serbian people. A bill like this wants to make clear and break ties and historical continuity with the most important and responsible Serbs, personalities from our people. Certainly, they are undesirable and surrounded by the imposed trend of the Euro-Union Europeanisation of Solana's type, which is the kind of one that is slushing through the proposal for a law on the traits of the Republic of Serbia. Leaving out a lot of medals is a special story. If this bill runs out of Obilic's medal, then it is obviously disrespect, and even mocking the level of military honor of the famous Serb army, all the bearers of this medal, the famous Serbian dukes , Negoša and his work, the Serbians in general and the Kosovo Testament in his knightly sense, as well as the highest part. [[already there was a discussion on this topic]] The memories aren't even worked out, which says everything was done in a hurry, even unprofessionally. From the abundance of events related to the national cultural and historical, military and state-owned area, it did not seem to be anything to make at least any proposals for monuments. In the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is said, among other things, that this law would allow for the continuation of the practice of awarding distinctions as moral recognitions that confirm and glorify useful work for the state, etc. The medals must not glorify the useful work, nor should they publicly verify it. They respect, acknowledge, as such, the affirmation of others to greater prerogatives and patriotic feelings, a positive selection of the best and most useful for society, the state, and especially for the Serbian people. The explanations of individual solutions are more convincing of the Bill of Features than they truly had to be. One of those explanations I'll read to you later. Again, it concludes that the legislator of this law did not have enough knowledge of this problem to be properly ruled by him, which is inadmissible, even inconclusive. Now I'm going to draw your attention to just a few members of this bill, which had to have a definition of how weight would be given to any kind of medals or medals as large and stronger as possible. In Article 2, we must make one language, grammatical, and however you wish the amendment, which would make the article read - that the medals are the highest signs of merit and public recognition and respect granted for the outstanding merits and works of great importance for the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian people, or all of its citizens. There cannot be a Republic of Serbia without the Serb people and its citizens. The medal must be deserved before the public, to give not only recognition, but also respect for the honour of merit and public recognition. It is a correction that must be encouraging in the plan of affirmation of its own nation and strengthening the country of origin of the people concerned. I must point out that this does not diminish the merits of national minorities and ethnic communities. Given the broad, open and hidden spectrum of attacks on everything that is Serbian, not only in the Republic of Serbia, but also in the immediate environment, i.e. diaspora, the need to highlight it with a supplement -- the Serbian people, or all of its citizens. If you accept this amendment to the SRS, I think that definition will be far better. I would also refer to Article 8, where it says that the Sretenjska Order has three degrees and is dedicated to the special merits of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the areas of public, economic, cultural, educational, sports and humanitarian activities. In order not to confuse grandmothers and frogs, as are all actions, we think we should leave out "sports activities". In view of the differences in the above-mentioned performances that they do not get from far away, nor do they have such a developed system of rankings, competitions and recognitions through numerous medals, monetary and other prizes, etc., athletes still have their own scope and characteristic system of acquisition and recognition, which is entirely adequate for their hobby or interest or kind of sport. However, if any of them deserve their overall lifesaving work by contributing, for example, to public, cultural, or humanitarian activity, then they can only be awarded the Happy Order. They have huge financial support for their prizes, cups and what is provided for sports alliances and societies. It certainly can't be compared to a medal won by fighters or any other meritors. Article 8 also refers to the Order of the White Eagle with swords, which has three degrees and is awarded for the special merits of commanding and commanding military units, which is not in the proposal of Article 8, which should stand, i.e., military institutions and their training for the successful defence of the Republic of Serbia in peace and war and order credit in the construction of the defence system. So the game of words you practice here must be removed because the military unit management system must not be misused. This is a role for which a great responsibility should be played and a great reward should be given after successful management. On the other hand, in Article 8(6). The National Security Order, or as you have suggested here the Order for Defence and Security, has no national part, and when the above-mentioned Order has three degrees, as in your proposal, at the hierarchy of values -- honor as a third degree, for example as a second degree and super-average as a first degree, we believe that according to the rank of the degree must be set in order of the desired values for our new proposal. That is why we propose that instead of "for model" stands "for honorable, exceptional" and "appropriate" instead of "averagely". It's a great termological reason that can contribute and that someone who deserves an order and doesn't get it. The Order of Nemnjiæ, the Order of Honor, the Order of Labour and the Order of Nikola Tesla were founded in one row. They are assigned to war units for prominent heroic exploits in the armed struggle. Extraordinary peace can be awarded to a high-school military facility for outstanding results in the training of professional officers. The Labour Order was founded in three rows. It distinguishes individuals, businesses, institutions and other organisations for outstandingly executed work obligations and ventures in economy and culture, in general the progress of society. So instead of three medals, when we talk about medals and medals that I mentioned as examples, we should add the next five medals that are very important to our society, because this cannot be justified by the poor economic situation in the country or by the burden of budgets. It is certainly the Medal of Courage, the Medal of Labour instead of the Medal of Merit, the Medal of Defence and Security, the Obelić of Medals, which must not be abolished and the Medal for military virtues. They're all medals that have to stand in this bill, and they're gone. The medal for courage has two degrees – gold and silver medal. The terminological change, so that this attitude can also be – The Medal of Courage has two degrees, gold and silver, and is assigned for two parts that have come to a strong expression of personal courage or for works in which in extremely dangerous situations in saving human lives, material goods, exhibits extraordinary courage and sacrifice. There's no such thing in the bill. If you also accept this amendment to the SRS, you will have a far improved law. It also needs to be replaced by the term "Signal of Merit" in "The Medal of Labour" in order to make this definition more precise. Then we have another change, which is important to note, which is that Obilića Medals also has two degrees and that it is awarded to military persons only in the war, for an extraordinary act or act of courage, sacrifice, tenacity in combat facts which have at critical times achieved successful results for the further course of combat and other activities. By law, you didn't make it clear. I must say that by throwing out plenty of medals from your suggestion of medals, one of the greatest heroes of the Serbian people, the ethlons of honor, dignity, pride, masculinity, beauty, fame and duration, which is certainly a great honor and standard. That is why we are making this proposal and we believe that it is mandatory to accept it in a principled debate. If this medal is not adopted, you have spat on both Obilić and all the bearers of Obilić medals in our glorious history, Negosa and his "Gorek Wreath" which Miloša raised to the level of divinity, the famous Serbian duke, on the Kosovo Testament, the military honor of the armed composition of Serbia. One of the basic parameters that I gave you is that it is important to note that if we really want to affirm our free, productive, military, knightly and noble spirit of Serbia, then their meaning, content, holiness, message and vow must be passed on in the decoration system. In this sense, the amendments to this extremely modest and saddened bill of distinction should be seriously considered to introduce a few more medals, such as Orden of Karadjordje's star into three rows, Orden of the White Eagle in three rows, Orden of the White Angel in three rows, Orden of Negos in three rows (as in Republika Srpska), the Order of the People's Hero, then Andric's Medals, the Medals of National Security and the Medal of Humanity. When you put it all in the bill, this law will look something like it. If you don't accept it, this law remains for DS marketing and we don't get anything from it in fact. Here, due to the time of the parliamentary group, I will no longer discuss the views and points of this law. I'll get involved in a further debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27278	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. After him, MP Bozidar Delic and MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia, like any country that holds on to itself, lays down by law the medals that are granted for exceptional merits, which are significant for the Republic of Serbia. The law has been waiting for adoption for a long time, starting since the Predrag of Markovic was chaired by the National Assembly until today, with the text constantly being crossed and changed, to finally come before the MPs in this form. The great lack of this bill is the fact that the history and tradition of the Serbian people have been erased. No more medals named after the greats of Serbian history, by heroes from the battlefield, and this is another proof that this bill has been made where plans against the Serb people have been devised so far. However, what immediately enters the eyes is the fact that one man and 'his halls', in the law, will be called 'the General Secretariat of the President', to decide who will act as the Commission for Awards from what is said in article 16 of the prominent figures in the Republic of Serbia. So, we, citizens of Serbia, should just keep quiet and worry about who the President of the Republic will appoint as a member of the Commission, or whom the President of the Republic sees as a prominent figure. As the king used to do, by hand and hand, as in Domanovic's "Stradija", so now the president – himself appoints members, appoints the President of the Commission himself, can also take away the medals, however, by showing himself extraordinary parts of the medals, etc. Now let's go back to the definition - a respectable personality. What kind of political winds and moods are at the top of the ruling establishment, the composition of the commission can only hurt our heads and be gripped by despair. Now we can assume who's going to be there. First, they will likely be lined up by representatives of NGOs, of course by a hierarchy that was more insulting, disdained, defiled by the Serbian people. Some even by personal example, slapping Serb victims in the middle of Belgrade, have already earned a fat seat on the presidential commission. Then there are those powerful sociologists, public advertisers in the state media who tell us that everything is in our best order, that we live very well, that Europe is reaching out to us, that farmers have never had such a good birth year, it's just a little problem that with prices they're wrapped in black and so on and so on. There may be someone respected, according to the president, who is hiding under the rainbow flag and who has fed up with us in Serbia for the cowards who have failed, thank God, some kind of parade of pride. After all, the last word on the commission will be given either by the American ambassador or by someone in Brussels. After all, the Commission will have its hands full - to which it will pre-allocate medals. First of all, he will make sure that no officer or soldier who fought by defending the Serb people gets an order, even after death. God forbid some 1999 hero pilot gets something like that, it would be an insult to both NATO and Brussels and their ambassadors. A hero like Major Tepic, like a hero from Kosar, has hundreds, but it seems to be the Serbian heroes, those who survived, intended for Milunka Savik's fate, and the dead forget. But that is why the Commission (President's Commission) will have to award medals to all those who have contributed to Serbia in the last few years looking like this today. First of all, it is necessary to assign the order responsible for this privatisation, because the sale of so many businesses for so little money is an extraordinary endeavor unrecorded in the world. Success is so much bigger for the future holders of the Order of Merits that so many workers have been fired and it has been congratulated by both the old and the young from Brussels, the IMF, the World Bank, so there will be no wonder if they get an order from them. The Order should certainly be given to those who deserve what we learn every ten days that we will take a billion-dollar loan, out of a billion euros, from this and that, of course, for the benefit of the citizens. I propose that the Commission prescribe Domanovic's prescription from "Stradija", which very instructively explains the criteria for whom and how to assign the Order. Domanovic says: "One of them told me that the minister decorated him for rare merits and sacrifice towards the country because he handled a lot of state money for a full year, and only 2,000 less were found in the register than it was supposed to be. It's true, it was said, because he could ruin everything, but his nobility and patriotism wouldn't let him do it. One was decorated that he was the guardian of some state warehouses for a month and the warehouse didn't burn down. One was decorated for being rich for half a year living a country's bad grain and more vass of other things." Every similarity with individuals is quite random, although the impression is that this satire is written now, not hundreds of years ago. The first to win the Medal of Courage is the President of the Republic himself. You wonder why. Because the president courageously and proudly told Serbian citizens, not blinking, that Serbia would get a new 200,000 jobs if it wins the presidency. So to tell the citizens in the face is a great courage and it deserves a Medal of Courage. On the other hand, without a job, there are a hundred people left a day, and only in the state administration will the job lose 20,000 people, according to Minister Markovic, and Serbia has reached that 200,000, but unfortunately fired rather than employees of Serbia. However, he advised workers to keep their jobs on the stick, but those who literally understood it ended up in an informative conversation. In order not to spread the list to the other worthy officials of the cabinet, I will mention also the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, who absolutely deserves both the Order and the Medal. First of all, the Medal of Courage deserved what was stoicly bold, and in writing, it deceived 5,200,000 Serbian citizens to receive 1,000 euros per 1,000 euros in free action. This is a courage that not all Serbian heroes, from Prince Lazar to this day. The merits order would be awarded for the reason that the minister gave citizens the opportunity to fantasize about spending the 1,000 euros. Some have seen in their minds, thanks to Dinkic, the refrigerator in the kitchen, some car used to be used, some have looked forward to finally putting the roof on an unfinished house, some have imagined themselves on a sea beach, and some have calculated how much bread they will be able to afford each day. So, the people were happy for at least half a year, until they realized that none of it had anything to do with it. But those few months of imagination, joy and happiness of the citizens are enough for the minister to win the Order. Some members show the contradiction of individual attitudes that can lead to confusion in the implementation of this law. For example, Article 15(1) states that the medals are awarded in February and June, and in the next position it falls into the water, as the president does not. In Article 24, the president also, regardless of anyone's initiatives for and against, can take away the medals on his own, and that, if he gets angry, by principle - I gave it to you, I take it from you. Article 24(1) states that a decorated person can be taken away by acting contrary to public order and morals. How do we interpret this now? The public order is in a translated form synonym for the words "mining the regime", so it now turns out that someone who has received a medal earlier, if he dares to attack the regime, to muddle it, to call it through the media, at political gatherings, may, by the will of the president, be left without it. Now let's get to the bottom of what's meant by "if you act against morality." What about the president of Serbia, for his commission morally? Perhaps the Commission will consider it moral that all Serbian citizens should rush, say, at the Pride Parade, but over 90% of Serbian citizens think it is not moral. Who's gonna be right about this case, whether it's the citizens or that commission? It is also necessary for Article 24 to provide that if a person is legally convicted of serious crimes, they will automatically take away his medals. As far as criminal provisions and records of decorated persons are concerned, this current authority may encounter a problem. Many of the government's favorites are medalists, monuments by foreign states that lead politics extremely harmful to the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and the winners of these same medals, their citizens or someone on the side, deserve them precisely by committing crimes against the Serb people. Someone will walk the streets of Belgrade with such a medal in their pocket or, as Ivan Cukalovic, will be proud to compete for a judge of the Kosovo Constitutional Court. The next day, he may be decorated with some sort of medal, and the same man should walk peacefully in the streets of Serbian cities. If Serbia holds to its honor and pride, to its integrity, it must no longer allow such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27280	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27281	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious from all these discussions that this law was not disputed that we needed it. Even the discussion shows that we were all ready to discuss it a long time ago. The question then arises why it took a year for him to be in the congregation procedure and whether there was no room to discuss it earlier. When looking at what is of these 33 members disputed, as Mr. Minister said -- this small law, only members of 8 and 9. Everything else is a technique and there can be one or the other solutions. Practically, if interventions were to take place in Article 8 and Article 9, this law would be acceptable. There have also been talks about the law being like this because Serbia is a poor country and is in crisis. Serbia was once much poorer, and its medals were made in Vienna, Geneva, Paris or Petrovgrad. These are medals that even today, when they look at each other, prey on their beauty and represent an extraordinary value. Today we are doing medals in Serbia, Kovnica money or several other privatised or state organisations. The medals are usually made from gold, silver, or polychronic enamels, sometimes from bronze, but the relationship with each other is such that the largest number of decorations are done by polychronic enamels. That's not some value or expense to this Serbia. Mr Velimir Ilic spoke here the other day about only two advisers from President Tadic and the mayor in the last five years "earned" about 500m euros, and perhaps they will be part of the Office of Orders and decide who is honored to receive them and what is 0.5% of those revenues for them so that Serbia has medals for 50 generations to come. It's absolutely not that Serbia has no material opportunities to make medals. The other is that it simply wanted to create this discontinuity that was established only some time ago, or the 1998 Law. As far as other matters are concerned, one thing in Article 24 is particularly eyebite, because it was not present in previous laws on distinctions. This is attitude 5, that the President of the Republic can take away distinction and self-initiative. Anyone, if he's well-intentioned, if he's read this attitude, should be distracted that it's not just about abuse, but this just sounds ugly. If we have in Article 16 that the Extensive Commission is considering the excellent proposals and also the proposals for taking away the medals, then all those who wanted to do a good service to the president of the state should not have allowed this position to be in the bill, because it raises doubts that certain things can also be misused. Mr. Minister, you should transfer the Minister of Culture to consider the amendments well. You have seen amendments come from those who will vote for this law. True, and they did - if their proposals were adopted. I have followed and seen that many proposals refer to the same distinctions, that even representatives of the opposition and representatives of the position through their amendments listed the same medals that would have to find a place in this law. One analysis needs to be carried out. This is not to say that all amendments to the Serbian Progressive Party should be adopted, because there are very good amendments that other parties have submitted. What we have proposed is one possibility, and that's how we look at how we have to establish continuity with the previous orderly systems. And that only takes a little will and a little effort. Let's take an example of Republika Srpska. She was still at war in 1993 when she made her own Orden system, but her Orden system is far more quality than what we got as a proposal. So all it takes is will and not will to put this legislative proposal in order, because it's really high time that the state of Serbia, when it comes to international relations, and also when it comes to regulation on the internal agenda, that the president of the state can award medals, i.e. that the organisations that are also designed as legislators for certain medals can begin to propose it. It's important, practically, for all institutions. I'd like to ask you to take special care of that. The medals I always look at twice. On the one hand, medals are honor and recognition to the one to whom they are given. But with its own medals, such as Obilić's medals, then Orden Negos, Vuk Karadzic, Nikola Tesla or Cvijic's medals, someone who previously decided about the laws gave recognition to the greats of our people. When I look at this proposal, it turns out we haven't had such people in our history. We are not a people like others with the space of ex-Yugoslavia, or others even in Western Europe, who even invented their history, battles in the past, etc. And then invented, after all, and decorated. We have such a rich history that it would be enough for a few people. Then let's respect her a little bit. If we're not going to do it here, in this assembly, if we don't draw attention to this motion of this law, who else is going to do it? Citizens today have had the opportunity to follow this debate and, as far as I know, the undivided mood that this law must be corrected. These laws should take a long time. The Republic of Serbia went through difficult historical periods when it was part of the SFRY, then as SRJ, and then as a community of states. The Republic of Serbia is now Serbia, and if we make one good law like this, it is no longer important who comes to this assembly and to the government, who will be in power in Serbia, who will be president of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27282	The word has an MP, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DHSS, I support the adoption of this law. We needed him. This is in line with the Constitution and constitutional powers of the president. Here, of course, is the question of measures. The question of the system of values is inevitably being raised here. Because the award criteria, by definition, mean affirmation and certain ethical values. Sacrifice, courage, nobility, humanity -- all of these are categories that different people can value in different ways. We've got a pretty messed up system of values. The biggest crisis that has hit this country is neither economic nor political, but moral crisis. We have one completely upside-down system of values and one fully dislocated cultural model. Hence, the proposal of a law like this inevitably causes different polemics, and people have different views on such issues. We have a tradition of the award of medals, and already they were the first, which was awarded by Milos Obrenović, to be discussed. In 1859, he introduced the Medal of Privilege, rewarding all those who helped him to come to power another time. Then King Milan established an order that had its own history and which had its own tradition, which is practically the first Serbian Order of the Takovski Cross and then began our history of awarding different honours. The medals were awarded to those who deserved them, and often they were not assigned to those who gave much to Serbia and the Serbian people, and they were assigned to those who were evil for Serbia and the Serbian people. And that applies not only to some distant history, but also to the recent past. It seems to me that the president will have more to do with the seduction than with the award of honor. I think that this job should be tackled, because here the medals are assigned to people who need black letters to be recorded in the history of the Serbian people. But this isn't bad for a historical reminder. Some tragic events of the past days reminded us of some historical things, first of all, the whistle of the French anthem, and the fact that young generations do not know enough history at all, that they should be educated, and that they should be told that Serbian soldiers at Corfu, Vida, Bizerti besides "there far", sang "Marselyez", one of the oldest hymns in Europe. After that Dutch anthem called "Vilhelmus", both Spanish and English from 1793, it is one of the oldest European anthems. As we forgot that Serbia was a member of Antante, headed by Franz Depere, whom we called the "Serbian Mother" and who, many years after World War I, was welcomed in Belgrade by 400,000 people. It was the largest gathering of citizens of Belgrade by 5 October 2000. I must remind you that is one of the biggest avenues in Paris, which is poured into the Sanzeliza Avenue, King Peter's Avenue of Serbia. On that mural in Forin's office in the heart of London is Serbia. Vidovdan has been celebrated in English and French churches and schools since the half of World War I, years later. We forgot all that. I was in Prince's Park in the '90s at a French-Serbian game. There no one whistled to our "Hey, Slovenes" anthem at the time, and it was excavated by our citizens. People don't know that. This story of distinctions can be a good lesson in history, to remind ourselves who our historical friends were, to remind ourselves that France has awarded two Orders of the Legion of Honor to Milunka Savik and that she was the only woman in the world who received the greatest French medal War Cross with a golden palm. It's forgotten here. And this topic can remind us at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27284	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vlajko Senic, deputy president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27285	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, I am reporting to take this opportunity to respond to a presentation by the MPs of the National Assembly that spoke in some peorative sense about the co-operation of the Serbian Army with the state of Ohio, with the National Guard of Ohio and, not because of the replica, is not a discussion worthy of replicas, but because of the citizens of Serbia, just to say a few facts. It's a serious state, which has over 11 million inhabitants, and we've established, as a state and as an army, bilateral co-operation. There are two countries that co-operate with the National Guard of Ohio, which are Serbia and Hungary. According to all parameters, which are clean and without any emotion, our cooperation is much better. Otherwise, our military co-operation with the National Guard of Ohio in the United States has been assessed as one of the most successful bilateral co-operations between one army and one national guard. It's a country where Serbia has many friends. One of the two senators from Ohio is Senator Vojnovich, a man of our origin, who is a true sincere friend of Serbs and Serbia, who opens doors wherever we want and wherever he can open them, and that's not small. He's one of America's most respected senators. There's a lot of people of our origin there. Recently, the president of Serbia spoke with Governor Mr. Stickland. There is even one congressman, Denis Kucinic, with whom we have recently discussed and who was one of the main initiators to pass a resolution in the US Congress on the suspension of Serbia's bombing by NATO in 1999. There are many areas of co-operation in which our country is working with them - sport, so now there is room for co-operation in the area of justice and the possibility of some economic co-operation. As far as military co-operation is concerned, away from being some kind of inconclusive co-operation. I think the military records talk a lot about it. Members of our army were there, members of the National Guard of Ohio were coming to Serbia. I'll say, among other things, that that's where the members of our most popular 63rd paratrooper unit went, that they have tactical and military exercises together. I think it's a co-operation that can also serve Serbia's military and the Serbian-Serbian government to be proud. I wanted to bring these facts here exclusively for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27286	Thank you. Since no one wants a word anymore, I'm concluding a principled search. I'm setting a break. It's the end of the afternoon. The paper continues at 14.45 p.m., with a general search of the 9th agenda - draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. Thank you. [[After break – 14.45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE DYASORA AND SERBS IN THE REGION (principal search) Notice of the invited to the session. Before we move to review the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Diaspora and Serbs in the region, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the session to be attended by Predrag Tojic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Diaspora; Miodrag Jaksic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Diaspora; Aleksandra Kotic, Secretary of the Diaspora Ministry; Djordje Prstojevic, Assistant Minister for Diaspora; and Vukman Krivokuća, Assistant Minister for Diaspora. You've received a bill from the government. You received reports from the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of members of the MPs' group and by the MEP's Group for European Serbia having - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS MP's group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP's group "Forward, Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the "New Serbia's" - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Slavic group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they shall file a statement with the order of the Members of Parliament. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Zoran Bortic – MP group SPS-JS, MP Mico Rogovic - MP group 'Napred, Serbia', MP Sinisa Stamenković – Parliament group PUPS, MP Zoran Nikolic - Parliament group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Milorad Buha - SRS MP, MP Vesna Pesic - Parliament group LDP, and MP Jovan Nesovic - MP G17 plus. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the representative of Proposer Srdjan Sredkovic, the minister of diaspora, want a word? The minister of the diaspora was appointed while he was outside the door, knocking and asking permission to enter the Assembly. Good afternoon, Minister. Welcome. You've already been called, insert the card into the electronics unit. The MPs will be patient for two or three seconds, until you are prepared to address them. I ask the service to deliver the card to Minister Happykovic. The word has Minister Srdjan Srekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27288	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to present to the highest legislative authority today a proposal for the first law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. This law reflects Serbia's firm determination to be a modern, democratic and international law-friendly country, which wants to be a leader in the region, but also a part of all integration processes and thus preserves our identity and cultivates the closest relations of co-operation with our people around the world. Why is this law important? Because the political, economic, cultural and lobbying potentials of our division are enormous, but because of the wrong policy, which has been under-run for too long, are under-exploited. Around the world lives between three and four million of our people and each of them makes their own concrete contribution to improving the image of our country and our people every day. They are all their own ambassadors because they bear witness to our democratic traditions of commitment to the people and to Serbia, which slowly but unconstitutionally becomes part of civilised everything. On the other hand, we must all imagine the fact that 40% of our people live outside the country's borders and never again allow Serbia to overcome a policy that encourages our people to leave Serbia. From an economic point of view, Serbian citizens must know that in the last 20 years, as long as we have the crisis in one way or another, macroeconomic stability and what level of living standards have preserved just the primary agricultural production and our diaspora, and we should all be grateful to it. Every year, according to the diaspora foreign currency records, about $5 billion enters Serbia, which accounts for between 14 per cent and 15 per cent of the social gross product, and according to this criterion, we are the 11th country in the world. For the sake of comparison, the total value of the diaspora foreign currency is exceeded by one half of Serbia's country's total exports. This means that 1/7 of all the economic values that are created in the state of Serbia have origin from the diaspora foreign currency, and this means practically that every citizen in Serbia on average is incomeing $690 annually on this basis. It must not be lost in sight and that our 2000 diaspora has invested about 500 million dollars in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is equal to the sum of all other foreign investments, if the revenues are excluded from privatisation. Today, about 20,000 people work in these companies, which is valuable in terms of the economic crisis, when we are fighting literally for every job. I firmly believe that this law represents a fundamental shift in policy towards dispersion, as millions of our people around the world and in the region will be given the opportunity to engage more actively in Serbia's developments, but will also receive support from Serbia that has been missing for a long time. Never again must our people in the world be treated as political enemies, and Serbs in the region must never again be abused for daily political purposes. So that the relationship with diaspora and Serbs in the region would not have anything to do with the daily policy and political parties that constitute executive power and that this relationship would not change after each election, we wanted to legally regulate this area by a comprehensive law. The adoption of this law is, in fact, the creation of an institutional framework for a new, long-term and, I am convinced, responsible policy. I believe that the Ministry of Diaspora has done its work in the last year to help the state finally recognise the importance of diaspora and Serbs in the region, and therefore I believe that this is a turning point and a new beginning that will contribute to the historic reconciliation of different parts of the same people, of which both the state of Serbia and each of our people will benefit, wherever they live. I assure you that never the state of Serbia and its state-level summit have attached this much importance to the issues of diaspora and Serbs in the region, and have never dealt with this problem this thoroughly. I honestly believe that this is one of those issues that we can, as responsible people, find a broad social consensus, regardless of political differences and personalaffinities. That is why I believe that today we are laying the foundation of a long-term policy that will not depend on the interests of political parties or on the composition of the executive authority. That's what I want to mention again. Partnership relations and cooperation between the queen and our people can't be in dispersion unless there's mutual trust. That is why we want to return the lost trust of the diaspora to long-term and patient work, step by step, but decisively and concretely. This was one of the reasons why in the process of creating this law we had the widest possible public debate, which lasted for six months and within which several hundred public stands and round tables were held around the world. We have sent the work version to the addresses of 2,400 of our associations, organizations and prominent individuals, with the invitation to make direct contributions to the quality of this law through concrete proposals, remarks, suggestions and criticism. All these proposals have been very seriously considered and each of them that fits into the basic concept of the law and has not been contrary to other positive regulations, principles and EU rules and recommendations of the Council of Europe, has become an integral part of this law. That is why I see this law as a joint project of the diaspora of Serbs in the region and the state of Serbia, and I must once again express my special satisfaction. The interest was really huge. Organizations and individuals from all over the world have made a concrete contribution, which confirms how much they expected such a law to be passed. This way I would like to thank all of them, and I will only list some, by chance, order and with equal respect: the Congress of the Serbian United States, Austria and Belgrade, the Serbian National Defence from the United States, Canada and Australia, the Union of Serbian Associations in Germany, the Central Council of Serbs in Germany, the Union of Serbs Austria, the Association of Serbian Clubs Vienna, the Serbian Cultural Union from Switzerland, the Serbian Union in Sweden, the Serbian Cultural Community "Arzinjano" from Italy, the United Serb diaspora of Eurasia, the Democratic Party of Serbs from Macedonia, the Serbian Society from Great Britain, the Serbian Cultural Centre of Slovenia, the Association of Serbian Communities from Slovenia, the Educational Council of the University of Vukovar, the Democratic Party of Serbs from the Republic of Serbia, the Association of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia's Association of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of I would like to point out once again that the order is random, and I really thank everyone for their cooperation during the draft of this law. This law for the first time defines our dispersion clearly and precisely. The diaspora is an economic and political emigration that went abroad at different times, mostly because of the wrong policy that led to the lack of democratic freedoms and poor living conditions. The diaspora is made up, therefore, of all our citizens and descendants of our citizens living outside the borders of our country, regardless of the national, religious, political or any other belonging, and of the Serb people emigrants from the region and their descendants. Serbs in the region are the indigenous population who have lived in these areas for centuries, and in some countries they have been or are today a constituent people. Some ask why Serbs are particularly mentioned in the region. It is because Serbs in Banja Luka, Trebinj, Knin, Temisvara, Vukovar, Niksic, Skadra or Kumanovo are not diaspora. They have lived there for centuries and have stamped the historic development of the entire Balkans, as well as the countries in which they live today. The bearer institutions of this new policy will be the Parliament of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, which will be a symbol of the unity of state and people. The diaspora assembly and Serbs in the region will comprise 45 delegates of the diaspora and Serbs in the region. They will be representatives of the secession, respected in the environment in which they live, ready to carry out conservation and strengthening relations between the country of origin and the diaspora, as well as the country of origin and Serbs in the region. A significant number of members of the diaspora, i.e. Serbs in the region, will be elected for countries or parts of countries in which a significant number of members of the diaspora, i.e. Serbs, are present. The conditions and way of elections will be agreedly determined by the organisation of the diaspora and the organisation of Serbs in the region, i.e., I stress, the country of origin will in no way interfere with the process and conditions of the election of delegates in the Assembly, which I am confident will make a major contribution to the return of the trust of the diaspora and Serbs in the region in relation to the state of Serbia. In particular, I would like to point out that the work of the Assembly, apart from the prime minister and all resolutely in charge of ministers, as a symbol of unity, will take part, as an honorary guest, and as President of the Republic. The law provides that the Assembly for continuous monitoring and resolution of specific problems, i.e. the implementation of decisions of the Assembly, forms and operational bodies: the Economic Council of Diaspora, the Board for Status Affairs of Diaspora and the Council for Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Sports Cooperation. The bill provides for the adoption of a Strategy to preserve and strengthen the relations between the country of origin and the diaspora, as well as the country of origin and Serbs in the region, which will define measures to improve relations both in relation to the country of origin - diaspora and the country of origin - Serbs in the region. As a reflection of will and determination that, in accordance with international rights and EU standards and a policy to preserve good neighbourly relations, Serbian people's interests and rights in the areas where they traditionally live, the law also provides for the establishment of a Council for Relations with Serbs in the region. At the head of the council will be the president of the Republic of Serbia, which as a state we send a clear message as to how important this issue is to us. The council will be tasked with providing support for the Republic of Serbia in the region in achieving their civic, political, social, economic and cultural rights and special rights in the area of preservation of national identity. On the other hand, our strategic goal is to be an economic and political leader in the Western Balkans, for which, without a doubt, we have potentials, but this includes our obligation to be a leader in the development of good neighbourly relations and regional co-operation. That is why I am sure that this council will make a significant contribution to speeding up the Eurointegration processes of all countries in the region. This law also establishes the Budget Fund for Diaspora and Serbs in the region to achieve concrete objectives: use, learning, preservation and care of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters; prevention of assimilation by fostering close relations with the country of origin, strengthening awareness of origin, preserving and fostering Serbian cultural, ethnic and religious identity; improvement of information; as well as the development of mutually beneficial relations between the country in which members of the diaspora and the country of origin live through presentation and promotion of cultural heritage and cultural activities, and all in order to improve the image of the Republic of Serbia. By establishing this fund, whose only formal and first symbolic investor will be a state, we will actually create a legal framework that everyone who wants it can financially help these and other humanitarian activities, while making sure that the money is spent for the intended purposes, which is very important, given some previous experience of diaspora in relations with the state of Serbia. In this law, as in any other team that my team and I would suggest, the basic starting point is the first and irreplaceable goal to facilitate and speed up the path towards the EU and all other international integrations, as this is the only way to have an economically strong and politically influential state. It is our firm determination to be a factor in regional stability and development, a modern democratic state that respects international law and Western standards of behaviour, but also protects our national and national interests, as France, Germany or the UK do, in an acceptable and understandable way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the support of this law is not the support of any policy, of any particular ideology. By adopting this law, we lay the foundation of a policy towards dispersion and set up mechanisms for the implementation of this policy, which must be long-term and independent from political parties. Convinced of the good intentions of each of you, I urge you to make a concrete contribution to the adoption of the best solutions in an open and democratic debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27289	Before we continue our work, I would like to inform the National Assembly that a representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group is a national MP, Aleksandra Jankovic. Do the committees want the word? National MP Aleksandar Cotric, deputy chairman of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia? No, I don't. ) Does the President of the Legislative Committee want the MP Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs Milorad Buha, Nikola Zutic, Momcilo Duvnjak, Branimir Djokić, Mirko Munjic, Siniša Stamenković, Željko Tomic, Zoran Nikolic and Aleksandra Jankovic, who at the meeting of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia set out their opinion on the bill, want to explain their own opinion? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, we have before us an important law that solves matter which, unfortunately, has so far been illegal and which probably has the least sublaw and legislation of all areas in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Why is this law important? From the presentation of the minister, we could hear that there are now between three and four million at the premises of third countries, and probably more, Serbs. Why is it still significant? Because Serbs went to the world for several reasons: economic, social, for the reasons of banishment, genocide, ethnic cleansing, etc. There are different motives for going into the world. We need to pay attention to how those who left for economic reasons 200, 150, 50 years ago go to the world today and also to those who, with special attention, who have been expelled and who live in the areas of the Balkans. Genocide and ethnic cleansing should concern today's and the international community, especially the Republic of Serbia, because Serbia has suffered the biggest economic and financial burden to banish Serbs from the areas where the indigenous people, where they had citizenship, were equal people. That's one side. The second, according to the minister, diaspora every year to this state that between 13 and 15, I would even dare to say that it's far more than five billion dollars. All of this is poured into the Republic's budget, into the balance of payments, and we mostly cover the balance of payments with foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign currency. This is what officially passes through the payment system of the Republic of Serbia. But in addition to the payment system, cash is entered far more and therefore I dare say that it must be somewhere between 18% and 20 percent of the gross social product of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we have a constitutional category. Namely, Article 13(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled for the Republic of Serbia to protect the rights and interests of its citizens abroad. Paragraph 2 states: "The Republic of Serbia is developing and promoting the relations of Serbs living abroad with the country of origin." That's why this law is necessary. In the preparation of this law, the SRS has had several formal and actual objections, which it has raised on boards, at informal and formal meetings, and expects the amendments made by the SRS to be in the majority and accepted, because they are essential and very important. On the other hand, we want to have a law that will allow the citizens of Serbia to have full protection, that all those anomalies, all those problems that plague Serbs, especially Serbs in the environment, are resolved, and that the state and state bodies are operationally solving, in the accelerated process, all that is the problem of Serbs in the environment. We have another law, which was passed back in 1990, which is the Law on Refugees, which says in its Article 4, "The Republic of Serbia provides collective protection for private, property and other rights and the freedom of refugees and provides international legal protection in a way that has been established for its citizens." Unfortunately, this law and this member of the law are not in office. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have not fulfilled their obligation to protect personal, property, collective, social and other rights. If it wasn't just my mere position, the government of the Republika Srpska region in persecution...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27291	National MP, five minutes. The time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic, who gave an opinion, has the word, and after him is the Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27292	Dear People's MPs, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, respected citizens of Serbia, are in front of us today of the Diaspora Act, long-announced and undeniably needed by any state that has such a large diaspora. After all, our constitutional obligation as a state is to take care of our countrymen wherever they are. Therefore, the need for a link between the queen and the diaspora cannot be challenged. That's what we need the law for. Given the state of our country, but also the state of the diaspora, the law we need is a good law, free of every policy, especially politics. So, to this one broad need that we as a people and as a state have, the government's response and the competent ministry is disastrously bad. This is not a law written for the diaspora, this is a law written for one political party, a political party that has held this portfolio for three mandates and wants to push its political influence towards the creation of institutions that are allegedly to take care of Serbs in the diaspora. This is very similar to when, two months ago, we passed a law on regionalisation of Serbia, when on the basis of the blackmail of one parliamentary group, i.e. the G17 Plus party, the assembly majority had to vote on the entire structure of those statistical regions, with the necessary institutions and, of course, a few hundred newly employed people. It's a similar thing when it comes to this law. And on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, I said this law is controversial and contradictory. There's only one thing that makes me happy, and that's the only thing that makes me happy about this law. If the assembly majority adopts this law, the need for the Diaspora Ministry ceases. It seems that the SPO, since the ministry is in the responsibility of the party, wants to make the first contribution to the rationalisation of the Serbian government and to the vote of this law and the institutions provided for by this law to abolish itself and thus reduce the excessive administration that we now have. Of course, I had to make a little joke, but now I won't. You have listed the most important, perhaps the most significant organisation of Serbs abroad, that they have given support to this law. I ask you, do you have it in writing, with a seal, with a signature? I say you don't. So, the first bill of law of a year ago was welcomed to the knife, with the right, because then you showed clear ambition to want to control the diaspora. When you saw that you played a little bit in that whole thing, now you've made some changes and adjustments, but what's symptomatic, which is present, is that the diaspora is silent. Muk's in the diaspora because you didn't write this law for the diaspora, you wrote it for yourself. And the diaspora knows very well. This law, whether we pass it or not, especially if it is voted upon, will be ignored by the diaspora because it does not solve the essential problems of the diaspora, because it does not deal with those problems of building stronger ties, but will serve to control the diaspora through parliamentarians, or delegates in the Assembly, you actually try to control the diaspora politically. You play, unfortunately, the political division in the diaspora. The diaspora is made up of our people, we are one people. The way it is in the state, it's in the diaspora. This law had to be the product of the uniform position of all relevant political forces in the country. What exactly do we want with the diaspora and what kind of relationship is it supposed to be? I believe that deal could have been reached, but you didn't want to talk about it. Because you wrote the law for yourself, you didn't write it for the diaspora, this is a law that humiliates and humiliates the Serbian diaspora and should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27293	The word is from Ambassador Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27294	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, on the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, I have issued an opinion on the proposal for this law on diaspora and Serbs in the region for several reasons. Some I'll say now. On the Committee, the minister said, firstly, that it seems to me, a historical law, that for the first time the legal solution covers one sensitive substance, the matter of Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region, and that the law should be superseded, to achieve a consensus of all political parties. As far as the history law is concerned, there is no historical law. History has been many laws so far, so we know how selectively they are applied, how some are not applied at all, etc. This is an important law, not historic, and matter is sensitive. It's true there was no regulation in this area, but that's why it's your fault. Not you, Minister, as a person, but you know who's to blame. What Walter says is, there's responsibility for what we do, but there's responsibility for what we don't do. Not passing such a law for many years since you've been in power, there can absolutely be no amnesty of your responsibility for that. As far as the law is supposed to be superseded, that's true, but the question is whether this law is even designed to be superseded. Mr. Minister, without any malignancy, your ministry has not even been able to take the cover of this book, "The position and perspective of the Serbian people in the countries of the environment" without looking like some of your party features. You may not know, I think you'll be glad to find these are the colors of your party mark. Well, so much for impartiality, maybe that wasn't your goal. As for the next issue, which is the question of Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region, I would ask the question – since you have already listed Serbs from the region, why is there no Serbs from Bulgaria in this list, why is there no Serbs from Greece? If it's already listed, it should be fully listed. The next issue is about trying to politicise Serbs, both in the diaspora and in the region. In my opinion, there will be two solutions here after this law is passed. Either you will conduct a politicisation of Serbs in the region, and because of the organised political performance towards Serbs in the diaspora and in the region, or the Serbs in the diaspora and in the region will be at odds even more than today, unfortunately, our countries and our countries are divided. Furthermore, the election of delegates in the Assembly and congregation councils, the way these delegates are elected, how Serbs will negotiate, how long the mandates will last, how long the Assembly, the councils, whether there are new people who will later appear as representatives of these congregations and councils, or whether these existing ones will be the majority of members of congregations and councils – these are all unknowns that this law does not regulate or do not regulate in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27295	The word has been delivered by MP Zeljko Tomic, who delivered an opinion at the Committee's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27296	Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, my colleague from the Committee and Parliament group Zoran Nikolic said mostly everything the DSS parliamentary group resents this law. I'd like to add a few more things. There's a reference here to the extraterrestrial character. Because of the citizens of Serbia and our people in the diaspora, I would like to read who makes up the composition of the Council: President of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister for Diaspora, Education, Culture, Faith, Finance, President of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church and Commissioner for Refugees of the Republic of Serbia. There is no one from the diaspora in the Council, and it is particularly interesting that there is an AP Vojvodina Executive Council and no one from Kosovo territory. It's very symptomatic. I'm expressing my suspicion that this is a tenorous and deliberately done. You will have to be very convincing and say why someone has an Executive Council of Vojvodina and there is no one from the Kosovo institutions of the Republic of Serbia. You say - The Council has a secretary, who participates in the work of the Council without the right to decide, etc. The Secretary of the Council shall be appointed by the Council, on a proposal from the President of the Republic. The Secretary of the Council, I suppose, isn't so important a function, but please, i.e. I just mentioned one small thing, to tell me where you can find it in the world, even in parallel law... Not only the diaspora law, I believe our country needs this law, but you won't find many solutions in parallel law in other countries at all. It just doesn't exist. Now, for my word, you're making up some new functions to, I'm afraid, spread out an organization, and it's very interesting, and I've set an example where the representative of the diaspora is gone. Article 22 is very interesting, talking about the Assembly. The assembly is meeting in a regular session, according to the diaspora Day rule. It's nothing controversial. The Assembly shall meet at an extraordinary meeting at the request of at least 1/3 delegates or at the request of the ministry responsible for the diaspora, namely today Mr Sretkovic and his associates, with an advanced agenda. Please, Mr. Sretkovic, this is the most concrete question - give me one assembly, whether beekeeper, young tops or any country in the world, which is not called by the president of the assembly but by the minister, or by the ministry. Please give me an example in which the congregation does not call the president of the assembly, there is no possibility of calling her. I'm really asking you to answer that. There's no question about the link between the diaspora. Everything's under control, or jargonically said, "under the hands of the ministry." The independent performance of the diaspora is questionable. A lot of organisations have reported to our DSS parliamentary group that they are complaining that they do not see their own space in the future because the ministry has covered what it considers to be the most important parts in our diaspora. I don't think you've been working on diaspora unity with this law, which was supposed to be your guide. It was supposed to be a basic principle for you, and you didn't do it. One last question. It is very interesting that this law was not given by the government of the Republic of Serbia to the Venice Commission. I'd like you to try that. Let's see what they say. Because there are solutions here, I've listed all three or four, but in the debate on amendments we're going to tell you a lot. It doesn't cost you anything to give it to the Venice Commission, so let's see what people say. Because these laws are very small, both in Europe and in the world, very specific and sensitive, and I would like to see what respectable institutions, which follow the legislation of various countries, will say about the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27297	Do any of the other MPs who have singled out an opinion want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27298	I took a word on the board because I thought... Of course, we all agree, all of the previous speakers, that this is something that is a supersede issue, but precisely because it is a superstitious issue and because, as the Vice President of the Committee said, it is very important that the historical law is passed, and because we call it systemic and roof law, it is very important that it is formulated. One of the first things refers to the very name of the law. My colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party and I have submitted amendments to which the name of the law itself would have to change into a law on Serbs outside Serbia. Why? The fact is that Serbs are a constitutive and state-owned people and, as such, they live in both Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska Krajina and Montenegro. Therefore, the Republic of Serbia is just one of the queens of the Serbian people in the Balkans. It is very important, when we talk about diaspora, to insert and separate, in a way, diaspora and Serbs in the region, which would mark all of our compatriots living in these other countries and which are a constituent and state-of-the-art element in them. Besides, I think it's very important what the legislator's intention really was. Namely, what I read from today's newspaper, in a statement by Mr. Diaspora Minister Mr. Sredkovic, you say for today's "News" you say: "The essence of the work in our portfolio is travel, and we have reduced them by 40%." It may be a small one, but I think it may be talking about the right intentions of the legislator. What does that really mean? The Serbian Ministry's work outside Serbia is about travel? You know, many people in the diaspora usually feel like travelling ATMs, like people being treated so that in Serbia they have third-class citizens' status, except, of course, when they bring in foreign exchanges and when they need to help some party government action. That's how inadequate this statement is, and as a psychologist, I can tell you that it's probably some kind of unconscious slip, which is actually talking about the real motives for passing this law. In addition, I am very interested in how you will solve the problems of Serbs living in the territory of Croatia, how will you solve the problems of Serbs in Republika Srpska, and what is specifically done by this law to bring the Republic of Serbia back to its position as guarantor of the Dayton Agreement? You see what is happening in Republika Srpska, I assume you are informed, you see that something is being prepared to degrade this Serbian state, you see that various agreements are being made that should practically end this entity, and I don't see what you, as a ministry dealing with Serbs outside Serbia, have done in this respect, except, as you say, cut travel costs? You did, Mr. Lucky, another interesting thing. We all know that civil servants will be fired. You have asked before the plenary discussion in the Assembly of Officials in your ministry as a question and a work task to elaborate possible objections to the opposition. I really can't find the source because it's clear that such a person would be fired immediately, but the fact is that as a work assignment, at the moment that everyone stands, practically, a threat to his head, you ask a question -- now let's speculate on the opposition's intentions. Convince me, Mr. Sretkovic, not only me but also Serbs in the distraction that you have failed to count so far, that this is a law that will indeed solve both their and our problem. In addition, it wouldn't be bad, since you belong to an option that NATO is now working on propaganda, to explain whether you will treat Serbs in the southern province as a diaspora. That's just some of the reasons why I had to put out an opinion on this committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27299	Do any of the MPs who've singled out want a word? Yeah. ) The People's Messenger Nikola Žutić has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Branimir Djokić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27300	Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, this final version of the draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region is more complete than the previous one, primarily because of the differentiation of Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region. In fact, we in the SRS believe that the entirely different problem facing Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region is, and therefore we welcome the ministry's decision to separate these two concepts in the draft law. On the other hand, I believe that Article 2 does not give a full definition of the concept of Serbs in the region. In my view, this notion was to be historically specified, namely that it refers to Serbs in former Serbian historical countries, which are mostly turmoils, i.e. proselytics assimilated to a particular new nation or war force, or aggression, removed from the area of the former Serbian countries. It should not be forgotten that the provinces of ex-Yugoslavia, without Slovenia and Croatia Zagorje, were the host countries of the Serb people. Our "God of Justice" anthem also mentions forgotten Serbian countries and Serb tribes. It is necessary to either respect or modify the wording of an anthem to which today's government does not relate with the necessary respect. In a principle debate at the Assembly Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, I demanded that the number of countries covered by the draft should include Serbs in the region, namely Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, Romania, Albania and Hungary, including Greece, Bulgaria, Turkey and Republika Srpska. In the subsequent discussion, I will explain my demands in more detail since there will be no time now, within five minutes. In the principle debate, I highlighted the total neglect of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its committee in relation to the evictive and regional problem of Serbs in the region. By studying the draft law, I have concluded that the National Assembly has been completely neglected as the key institution of parliamentary democracy. It is not even mentioned in the basic strategy of strengthening relations with the diaspora. Only the Government, Article 12, is in the first place. Representatives of the Assembly and the Assembly Committee are not included in the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region. The draft states that the government, ministers, representatives of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Academy, the Chamber of Commerce, and even representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, and the highest legislative democratic body are simply not there again. There is no National Assembly in the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region either. Article 12, which determines the composition of the Council, lists itself as members of the Council of the President of the Republic, the competent ministers, but also states the institution of the President of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, which certainly supports the statehood of Vojvodina in relation to other parts of Serbia, which are simply discriminated against, and Serbia presented as an asymmetrical Federation. The Serbian Radical Party has otherwise taken a general stand to strictly separate the Diaspora Assembly and the Serb Assembly in the region as Serbs in the region follow a completely different problem and problems in everyday life. Budgeting and funding emigration is a special problem, especially for Serbs in the region, so I think that a budget fund for the diaspora should be set aside and a special budget fund for Serbs in the region. In the end, I had objections to Article 42 about national recognitions. I mean, I wanted to supplement the kind of national recognitions. I have no objection to these national recognitions, but I would suggest to Mr. Secretary that I confess to include some key scientific areas that have not been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27301	The word is from Ambassador Branimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister and the Honorable Chairman, and I have issued my opinion on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, which we had the other day along with the ministry representatives, headed by Mr. Minister. I had plenty of reasons to do that, given this law that we've been waiting so long and which, according to the minister, is of historical importance. Anyway, what my colleague said, a lot of laws were of historical importance, but they went as they went. It is better to have this law well done, to have a good application, to get a common consensus, to listen to each other and to have for all these things, which I think are well-intentioned by our fellow parliamentarians here, find the best solutions so that this law can have some function in practice tomorrow. I have to say that in certain informal discussions that we had on the Committee, before and after the Committee, we tried in some way to change some of the views, together and different, to point to some of the gaps that appear here. It's not a small miss, there's some small ones, and there's a lot of big gaps. I've come to the conclusion that the minister and his associates are not very interested in any concessions or understanding, which is why I've issued an opinion. Now that it's a short time to say all that, we, the SRS, delivered it through the amendments. You got it. I hope you'll take a good look at it, think about it, because this law is very important for both the state of Serbia and our citizens, the three or four million, who live all over the world. I would briefly refer to a few key things in this law. From what I've seen, you and your associates are in some way agreed to accept certain changes and additions to this law, but in those members, as far as I can see from my angle, which in some ways would give everything cosmetic beauty, and for the key solutions, you haven't worked very hard. I made an effort to reach one conclusion, to wonder why you have even taken the view of being a joint assembly of diaspora and Serbs in the region, when we both know that people living in Canada, America, Australia, around the world, who have not come to Serbia and Serbs living in the environment, Croatia, Romania, Macedonia, do not have much to touch with their daily life problems. Was it difficult to separate it, to make it easier to function, to understand better and easier, so that in some ways common problems could be solved? It's just your goodwill. We're doing it with these amendments we're practically trying to show you. The problems are completely different, they have nothing to do with each other. The other thing is, you kicked both Greece and Bulgaria out of the law, arguing that Serbs there are not indigenous people. I tried to influence you in informal conversations with your colleagues in the hallway, after the board, but I see you've stayed on the stand. I tried to get a book you just published, the Diaspora Ministry and the Ministry of Culture. Of course, this book has been published in co-operation and with consultations with certain institutions of historians. You see this book, which you have betrayed. Here, I'm showing it. It is the book "The Illustrated History of the Serbian Diaspora". It describes very clearly the settlement of Serbs in Greece, in which century everything happened. It's time for me to read all this here. You might want to read that before we get into the next debate. It says here exactly when Serbs appear in Bulgaria, same in the 7th century, how they live there and how they gravity... (President: Five minutes, MP, time at your disposal has been used. I apologize, since the time is short, I would only ask one more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27303	Thank you. Do any of the MPs who have issued an opinion on the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia want a word? If you'd like, please register in the electronic system because I don't have any registered MPs who have issued an opinion and want a word. No, I don't. ) In that case, I ask if the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word. Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27304	Dear Minister, dear fellow MPs, I would like Mr. Secretary to take my discussion as a matter of fact, extremely well-intentioned. I have a lot of important questions to ask. I think it's going to be questions that really get in the way of real problems. First of all, I can't help but feel the law is passed just because there's a ministry. It's not just yours, but other ministries have passed some kind of roof laws, so somehow, here you are, and you passed that law. You, however, have called for reasons that some other countries have passed similar diaspora laws, you have also cited what countries they are, but we have not seen whether these countries also have diaspora ministries. Personally, I do not feel that the law that is now attached here is necessary, as I have previously expressed my opinion that the Ministry of Diaspora does not need it either. I especially stress this in the context where jokes are no more, because this law, even though you say in the last article, does not require additional funding to apply this law, which I do not understand at all... How is it possible when you have a budget in Article 5, a fund that is set up, and you say that projects will also be funded from the budget? That's how I read it, you nod your head, so it is like this, Article 5. Please, since you've nodded your head, then let's get this straight right away. Article 5: "The funds for preserving and strengthening the ties between the country of origin and the diaspora, as well as the countries of origin and Serbs in the region are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia". It is clear that, in order to expand the activities of the ministry, you will have to increase the number of employees greatly. Here, in Article 6, in order to realise the activities of Article 4, you call for competitions, you assign for projects, then you choose, you select projects, you monitor projects... All of this needs to be installed and institutionalised by a broad and large ministry in order for all these jobs to be done. You've even got a record in the end. How is someone gonna record without a clerk? First, the law means one very broad institutionalisation and the ministry itself, which means a significant increase in the number of employees. So there's, say, the creation of a strategy, etc. I don't know, I've never heard of it. But even if such a law were necessary, indeed, Mr. Minister, this law comes in great weather. Are you following how much the government is struggling to somehow support that budget deficit? It seems that in 2010, nothing good will come to us, and you are passing a more or less unnecessary law - I will also show why, because of its internal illogicalities, not in general - in an unprecedented crisis. When the number of unemployed increases, you get some new funds for the clerks and the Budget Fund to stand out. It's a storm. I just thought the context was impossible. That's why I'm talking to the ruling majority first of all, that she's very pedantic, instead of sleeping -- I have to remind the ruling majority that she's sleeping and she's not reading these laws -- she's looking at what she's doing and how much new funding Serbia is going to have to implement this law. Now I'm going to move on to some problems, not to mention objections, and there are objections, which refer to the first term, which speaks to the subject matter of this law, and then to the second term, which defines the concepts. You see, when one and the other are looked at by the first member, where in fact the relations of the Serbian state with certain elements, with Serbs who do not live in Serbia, to categorize everything together, it is very strange that Serbia, as a very precise identity, as a state, is establishing some kind of relationship with some groups that are very fluid and which, as I will show, are very inextricably defined. It maintains ties to the diaspora something very vague. I'll show in what sense it's undefined, and that's evident from all the other members. Some emigrants who have long moved out, who apparently are not our citizens, who have not moved as Serbs only from Serbia, but have moved from all countries to the region or who knows where, and they are very little in the law itself and mentioned, are also part of the definition of diaspora. So the diaspora category is very vague. How does one state establish relations with some emigrants, with some unspecified diaspora, and not to mention all Serbs in the region? That's the relationship I'm talking about. Absolutely can't be defined like this, laymanically. When you look at the definition of terms in Article 2... I'm asking the Vice President to silence these people here, because I can't speak from radicals, who make noise all the time. Come on, take it easy. (President: People's MPs, please continue the exhibition, and I ask the MPs to either wake up or be silenced. I can't scream that much. Now I'm moving on to this key question, which those who have already singled out views have not noticed. You see, when you say what includes the concept of diaspora, you say the term diaspora includes citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad. Please, gentlemen, to be clear, these are not Serbs. Our citizens, as we know, are now through reading, and Roma, Albanians, Bosniaks, Hungarians and other minorities. But you later in members, when you talk about relations with diaspora and with Serbs in the region, about strengthening these links and identities, about the Diaspora Council, you only talk about Serbian, about the letter, about religious... Obviously, you won't be providing these services, because you simply can't see it later. And I saw that here and the gentlemen understood that diaspora, as you mean, Serbs living in other countries, not Serbian citizens. Please make it perfectly clear here that it is the citizens of Serbia, not the Serbs. Now these emigrants, who I don't know how you identified them, are also mentioned in Article 4, and are very rarely mentioned otherwise in the law, where you say, "The Republic of Serbia can take measures to make connections with immigrants from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their descendants who are not covered by Article 2 of this law if there is a common awareness of the need to preserve traditional relations and historical ties." Please, how do you establish the existence of that consciousness? What kind of emigrants are they, and how is that consciousness ever established? I also say this as a sociologist and as a researcher. I don't know how this consciousness can be established at all, but good. This category is clearly not represented in the law. She's kind of stuck there, so if there are any, we'll put them somewhere, into all the Serbs of the world, so let them be there somewhere. You see, it is justified to note that when you move to that second category, to Serbs in the region, this first category of citizens and these unbulkable emigrants, as categories, have nothing to do with each other. When you talk about the law on diaspora and Serbs in the region, you keep repeating this duality, I don't see why, since you can see from the explanation what it means -- Serbs in the region are Serb minorities in neighbouring countries, as far as I understand. First, it is clear that every country in some way cares about the position of its minority in neighbouring countries. But the issue of Serb minorities in other countries is part of our official state and neighbouring policy, and not some law on diaspora. In addition, what is also confused, when it comes to our minorities in Romania, for example, or in Greece, as someone says, if such a minority is recognised at all, and we know that Greece does not recognise any minorities, but it is surely recognised in some other countries, for example in Croatia, please, so we just passed the National Minority Councils Act this summer. These are international documents, international acts and all of us neighbouring countries that are now EU members, it is also up to them to spend funds and to have a certain high degree of respect for the national minority in their own country, including Serb minorities. So I don't see any reason why any funds would be allocated and why the Hungarian minority would be cared for by Hungary unless there were any problems or any clashes, major conflicts, where it might occur. But otherwise, in one peacetime, it's part of the state policy of good neighbourly relations and I think it's on our long-term and short-term policy to maintain these relationships and, above all, to discuss it with neighbouring countries, not to interfere with the internal affairs of other countries, and that it gives something, invests, and that is primarily the obligation of the countries where these minorities live. In addition, an even greater confusion in the explanation is the fact that you specifically said that the state of Serbia is extremely concerned about maintaining these ties with Serbs in Bosnia. It really doesn't make any sense, because it was solved by the Dayton Peace Agreement. There are international peace agreements, there are special relations with Serbia and Republika Srpska, and you are now adding another special ministry that treats... When a constitutive nation, not owned by a majority nation but freely, and perhaps freely, decides on its rights, what do you have to add to the Serbs in Bosnia? Did we not fight for them there? Aren't such crimes committed in Bosnia? Haven't we helped them as much as we should? Just to remind you that we are inflating even more the nationalist identity of the Serbs in Bosnia. Well, what's that for anyway? I'll remind you of Miss Sonja Karadzic. I don't know if you remember when she said that we Serbs from Serbia are a real degenerate and that the flower of Serbia is right on the Palace, Serbs in Bosnia. So I don't see what you have to do there with that flower, that you, as a ministry, add to them something else from that Serbia. Given the formalized agreements, I really don't see why you singled out and why Serbs in Bosnia, who are constituent people, are entering some law on diaspora without any need. So, I've shown these categories either overlap or they just don't respond or they don't have a problem being together. Except that when you talk about organizations in the Assembly, you might follow that idea that this assembly should be like some kind of organism -- all the Serbs of the world will gather in one place, so it kind of seems like something that needs to happen. That's it, and otherwise the problems of each other are completely different, even the composition of these people is completely different. I have to say, when it comes to definitions, it's a very problematic definition -- the concept of parent country. The concept of parent country is exclusively an ethnic structure and does not entail any individual concept or concept of civil state. Serbia cannot be any Serb mother country in Romania, Albania or Slovenia if they are people born there and living as citizens of those countries. These are their countries of origin, Mr. Sretkovic, just as Albania is not the country of origin of Albanians in Presevo, but it is Serbia, whose citizens they are. So this notion can lead to very dangerous consequences, where links with members of their people who are minorities in other countries are not used as a bridge of co-operation, but as a instability and a lighter for conflicts. Since we've had these conflicts very recently, someone has also said that this is a very sensitive matter, these kinds of co-operation that you've predicted in this context, with the country of origin, or that now all these others should have their own other home state, our minority, and not our own country where they were born -- I don't think that this concept really fits. He should be kicked out of the Constitution and out of here. I'd also like to say something about these organizations. Maybe people aren't aware of that. I have already said that the organisation that you are predicting, this assembly, it includes all these Serbs of the world, but not only those that you listed in this definition, but also the highest officials of Serbia itself -- prime ministers, a dozen ministers, representatives of the church, the Academy of Science, all possible. So you even predicted, perhaps a little tasteless, that the President of the Republic might eventually be an honorary guest in the maintenance of that all-Serbian congregation. I'm most concerned, when you reach the council of Serbs, since this assembly covers all Serbs of the world, you now have a Diaspora Council, so you have a Council for Serbs in the region. You see, the council for Serbs in the region is not composed of Serbs in the region, but is an institution of the Serbian state. If I read what the composition of that advice is, you'll be totally amazed. This is our state institution. So are we making an anchlus here, when it's ours? It's not some of them in the region, it's us. So, the composition of the Council is this: President of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Diaspora, Minister of Education, Minister of Culture, Minister of Trade, Minister of Finance, President of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, SPC representative, Commissioner for Refugees. That's what you're saying, that advice is the authority of our country that brings these Serbs together in the region. When you look at what this Council on Relations with Serbs in the region is doing here in Serbia, there are some very strange points, I have to read it. Point 10) must indeed concern us, especially if people do not pay attention at all, do not read these laws and do not really care about it and read point 10) where it says that this advice, which means our state council, drawn up like this, is considering ways to improve the conditions for achieving the electoral right of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in the region. So that's where they even talk about voting rights. That's what people here don't know. That's what a big debate is about. If this is how they adopt these nebuloses that exist in this law, it's really totally unacceptable. Furthermore, the Diaspora Council, which is also established, Mr. Sredkovic, that this was a law relating to our citizens in the diaspora, means what is really meant under the diaspora, without these Serbs in the region, because you have made an unprecedented mess with it, that advice and what it should do, it should, in fact, be in place of your ministry. In that sense, some financial assistance, because of those who send these signals, which you have told us, would be something to invest in, and especially I, as a former ambassador, could tell you that all their needs, administrative and other, have so far been solved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, except as far as identity, religion, culture and demarcation are concerned. If you wanted to, there could possibly be some projects to support the real diaspora, in this true meaning of the word, and we are not detached from the budget for Serbs in the region for their needs, where in order to maintain their integrity, the neighbouring countries stand out for us without saying that there is no need for such funds to be allocated to Bosnia or to someone who is already such a special constitutional people there. So, you've created this termological confusion, a notional confusion, and you've been led by this idea of "all Serbs of the world," where Serbs see it as some kind of organism, and in this organism these citizens, who no longer mention themselves, these other citizens, where they should be allowed abroad and not talk about preserving their identity. I have to say, there are some maybe comical things. The budget and the rank are growing enormously. I won't keep it any longer, since I'm running out of time. I have another minute to say that there are even such moving things, that one prize is called "Mother of Serbia" etc. So there are some pathetics, which are absolutely unnecessary. It could have been something like this. Emperor Dushan, as it stands... (laughs) and these other names, which are bombistic, instead of this "mother", and someone suggested that it would be better and more pathetic to put "mother Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27305	Thank you, Mrs. Pesic. There is a word from MP Zoran Bortic of the SPS-JS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27306	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, respected ministers and representatives of the ministries, esteemed fellow MPs, in a number of laws discussed or yet to be discussed by this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the law on diaspora and Serbs in the region represents, in my deep confidence, one of the most significant legal regulations and should therefore be given special attention to it. When I say this, I mean a few important reasons that put priority on the need for the Republic of Serbia to pass such a law. First, we are bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for Article 13, that the Republic of Serbia protects the rights and interests of its citizens and develops and promotes the relations of Serbs living abroad with the country of origin. Secondly, according to fairly reliable statistics, more than three million people who plead as Serbs live in the world today. It represents more than 40% of our country's population. Thirdly, in countries in the region, in the Balkans, and above all those in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, in BiH, Croatia, Montenegro and Macedonia, more than two million Serbs live, with a number of three million Serbs in the world representing a half-dominated majority of Serbia's citizens. Fourthly, in recent times, a growing number of countries, especially in Europe, are beginning to truly care about the real and legal position of their diaspora. The term diaspora is often used in a very broad sense today, with not only those citizens leaving the country where they were born, but all other members of a nation who for some reason live outside the borders of their country of origin. Like many other nations, the Serbian people have a significant diaspora. Different reasons led to Serbs beyond the borders of their country of origin. There was economic emigration, but also various other factors -- political conflicts, internal divisions, wars, border crossings, and many other reasons. In the end, it is not so important why Serbs living abroad are concerned. For those of us who represent the most legislative body of this country, what is far more important is what we can do to strengthen the ties of Serbs from the diaspora with the country of origin and in particular to guarantee them the proper legal status. In this respect, in order to adopt a comprehensive and in line with international standards of acceptable law, it is necessary to bring this legal text into line with legal sources, both internal legal acts and numerous international documents, bilateral and multilateral international contracts, certain decisions by international bodies and bodies of different international organisations. First of all, it refers to citizenship contracts, protection of minorities, rights of workers, migrants, recognition of testimony of completed education, social security, avoidance of double taxation, co-operation in the field of culture, etc. Due to everything that has been said, an attempt by the legislator of this law to regulate the position of Serbs living outside the queen is an effort that in itself merits the attention of this assembly and which should be supported. It is also necessary to support the legislator's intention to regulate this complex and multi-significant problem with one regulation. International experience in this area shows that one general law regulates the position of the diaspora in the European countries legislation - Romania, Ukraine, Hungary, Macedonia, Poland, Albania, Croatia, Slovakia, Spain, Greece and others. Legal experts can quite justifiably attack the thesis that one legal act regulates such a large, complex and very heterogeneous area as the diaspora. This team before such a law, no matter how professionally and competently it is, suffers in advance from the principles of generality, principle and abstraction. However, experience shows that one comprehensive and comprehensive general law makes it easier to regulate specific issues under the regulations, decisions, regulations, contracts and other legal acts than to regulate these rules from several individual acts. In addition to a constitutional and international legal obligation that imposes the need for Serbia to legally regulate its diaspora position, the key and, I would say, no less important reasons are both economic, social and cultural. It is known that diaspora everywhere in the world, for various reasons that can be generically referred to as one patriotic word, helps its own queen. These examples are particularly characteristic in periods when the queen comes out of some deep crisis and enters the stage of development. Through such stages, Serbia was also going through with its diaspora. Not to go deeper into an analysis of how many times in the century that has helped Serbia through the diaspora selflessly, I will only indicate confidential statistics that on an annual level in our country, on this or that basis from the diaspora to the queen, more than 500 million dollars are being sent. The fact itself shows how important the Serbian diaspora is for the development of this society and the potential of the diaspora to launch an investment cycle for new greenfield investments, to link Serbia's economy with the economies of countries where members of our diaspora live for all other areas of co-operation between Serbia and those countries. Given the potential of our diaspora, the legislator carried the idea that regulating the relationship between the queen and the diaspora would significantly affect the increased transfer of capital and technology and, above all, the transfer of workers. The main goal of this is to connect the diaspora with life and events in our country, which should lead to strengthening diaspora and queen ties, especially to include the highest quality diaspora representatives in the country's development. All of this should affect the creation and development of a unique cultural, economic and any other environment in which the most prominent Serbs living abroad actively cooperate, which also implies the emergence of new operators on our market and which would contribute to the development of awareness of competition, ideas, knowledge, work and capital. Unfortunately, it should be recalled that in our practice so far there has been no system law that would comprehensively regulate relations between the queen and the diaspora. That's also why I want to point out to the legislator that the bill has been imposed as a kind of problem. I guess that's why the proposer, in good faith to regulate this area in a unique way, has given priority to a text like this that represents some kind of codification of the relationship between the diaspora and the Serbian queen. The legislator approached this way to regulate relations between the Republic of Serbia and its diaspora because by analysing other options for resolving this problem, he concluded that the proposed legal text has no alternative. It should be pointed out that the proposed text of the law respects the requirements of the EU, the reports of the Venice Commission, the experiences of developed countries and represents an improvement in the current gap, i.e. the fact that such a law did not exist in our legislation. Therefore, it is a convincing argument of the legislator that partial regulation of queen and diaspora relations through changes and addition of a whole set of legal regulations would not be sufficient. It would not be justified from the point of view of legal certainty, and above all, it is always better for the competent authorities and for the persons concerned, that there is one basic regulation. Even if one law cannot settle all relevant issues, its adoption opens the way to regulate the most important moments and determine the principles in the given matter. This bill quite precisely regulates the way in which the diaspora and Serbs in the region are maintained, strengthened and implemented in the region with the country of origin, jurisdiction and mutual relations between the Republic authorities in the field of relations with diaspora and Serbs in the region, the establishment of the Budget Fund for Diaspora and Serbs in the region, the constitution and jurisdiction of the representative body of the diaspora and Serbs in the region, the registration of organisations in the diaspora and the organisation of Serbs in the region and other important issues. The law also defines precisely the concepts relating to two categories of persons, so under the diaspora, it implies citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad and members of the Serbian people from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and from the region and their descendants, and under the notion of Serbs in the region, the law implies members of the Serb people living in the Republic of Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, Romania, Albania, Hungary. Taking into account modern domestic and international standards, human rights relating to the so-called Gender equality, the legislator of the law, establishes gender equality in a linguistic sense. In this regard, it introduces to Article 3 a provision which it draws up for the purpose of using, for example, a member of the diaspora in any subsequent provision of the law of each future member besides male and female. In the third chapter of the Bill's proposal, competences in the area of parent and diaspora relations were regulated, both the country of origin and Serbs in the region. In this chapter, it was regulated that the Serbian government determines the country's policy towards the diaspora and that the policy is being implemented by the competent ministry of diaspora, as well as by other authorities within its competences. Other tasks and business operators in the field of policy achievement have been foreseen, and it is interesting that the law also determines the Day of Diaspora and Serbs in the region. The legislator predicts it to be June 28th, on Vidovdan. The bill also provides for organisations in the diaspora and Serb organisations in the region, and particularly regulated issues of constitution, decision-making and session of the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region. While a lot of arguments could put remarks in the way the diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region were elected and set up, the proposal should be welcomed by the proposal's intention to approach this important issue with the intention to regulate it normally. I hope that through a debate in this assembly, the motionary will accept the ideas of the MPs to better regulate the issue of establishing the way in which the diaspora Parliament and Serbs meet in the region. It should be pointed out that the legislator in the bill has made sure to introduce solutions that will contribute to the use, learning, preservation and care of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters, the preservation and care of Serbian cultural, ethnic, linguistic and religious identity. The issue of the preservation of language and letter among the representatives of our diaspora is not rhetorical, but essential to the survival of the Serbian national being in all countries where Serbs have been a significant cultural, economic and political factor over the centuries. All are well aware of the impact the Serbian National Corps had on today's Hungary, Romania, Macedonia, Albania or Montenegro and Croatia. Of these influences in some of the countries mentioned, only symbolic clues remain. A negligible number of formerly powerful Serbian diaspora members today remember their Serbian background and plead as Serbs. The best example is Budim and Sentrea in Hungary or Skadar in Albania. Until the end of the 19th century, Budim was the most powerful Serb community in Central Europe, and today, throughout Budapest, almost no Serbs. There are only a hundred Serbs living in Sentendrea, where Serbian high school still operates today. Until the arrival of Enver Hodge to power in Albania in 1945, Skadar and his background settled, in the largest number, members of the Serb and Montenegrin people. Even today, you will meet many people who bear Albanian names and speak Albanian, who will say they are Serbs. As a result, the queen’s concern for the preservation of language and Cyrillic letters is important among our compatriots in the diaspora. Therefore, the bill provides for support for all forms of educational-experienced work abroad, the provision of textbooks and other doactic material, as well as the provision of fees for learning Serbian language and Cyrillic letters. It is not insignificant or the fact that in this difficult time, the legislator observes that its implementation does not require additional financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Dear fellow MPs, we all know that the Serbian diaspora, not only that part of it that has been created by emigration in the last two decades, but the diaspora formed over the past centuries, represents the strong intellectual, economic and cultural potential of the countries in which they live. Should I remind myself that many prominent congressmen and senators in the United States, Hollywood stars, the most famous poets, painters, artists and other public workers, athletes and top scientists, although many of them are born outside the queen, still feel the Serbs today? Even in a situation where they forgot their native language, they preserved their emotional belongings and national cultures. This represents an inexhaustible potential to strengthen not only the economic development of our country, but, in my opinion, it is much more important, to strengthen Serbia's overall reputation in the world. To a large extent, a positive picture of our country also contributes to our diaspora. That is why we must never forget that fact and therefore it is high time to regulate this area in a precise and responsible way in favour of our country and its diaspora. That's why I think this law, despite all its shortcomings and indeterminateness, should be passed. It would be very good for us to improve the proposed text through the debate and get better solutions. I sincerely hope that all honourable colleagues and fellow MPs share my opinion on the importance of this law and that in the debate it will contribute to making the legal text better and more precise than it is proposed. Finally, I would like to point out that the SPS-JS parliamentary group in voting day will support and give confidence to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27307	Thank you, Mr. Bortic. The word is by MP Mico Rogovic, on behalf of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27308	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Serbian diaspora and Serbs from the region, I hope that the particularly interesting and important law that is before us today in the assembly procedure will be sent through various satellite shows and related to their most important relations, i.e. They're dealing with queens and diaspora. Many countries have long taken care of the real and legal position of their citizens in dispersion, so-called. Diasporas. I really don't want to continue in a ton of some speakers here because I think it's very important that today's law is on the agenda, no matter how much he agrees whether he's good or not, and he's good at how much we're going to make remarks on him and he'll be even better if you accept, Mr. Minister, those remarks. I do not want to continue in the spirit of an MP, who was even a diplomatic representative of our country abroad and who Serbs call 'this Serbs'. I really don't think it's tolerated to talk like that in parliament, especially not the person who was a diplomatic representative. In this spirit, the SNS will not make objections to this law, and all that we bring out, we will find objections and try to improve this situation. The most important thing of all is that the law has seen the congregation procedure, and that the times ahead and behind us will show how much it has to experience changes to the extent of certain failures. What you did at the beginning, Mr. Minister, is a finding that Serbia wants to become a leader in the region with this law. You're wrong about that already. You know that many serious EU countries, starting with Spain, which in the 1970s passed this law, then Greece, which realised that 16 million Greeks were in the dispersion and 14 million Greeks in the queen, i.e. Greece, a truly high capacity for the Greek state. As an example of transition countries, Romania passed various legislative acts in 1991, and later passed the law. Other countries in the environment and the region, such as Russia, Slovakia, later Bulgaria and Hungary, previously solved these problems in the area of relations with their diaspora by legal acts. We can't talk about this problem without remembering earlier events, especially events that have been present in our lives for the last two decades. At these ministerial posts, it began from the Cvian Socialist in 1991 and the term "Serbian Out of Serbia", to the Minister of Pro-European Implementation Ms. Milice Cubrilo, who, by the way, was an expert on tourism after October changes, and was remembered in Serbian tourism. It is not personal, but it is true that, as someone who represented Serbia abroad, it is exclusively at expensive inosits, regardless of the disastrous, unfortunately, situation in Serbian tourism and conditions. So the point of the brand, the product and the story was to travel as much as possible and introduce Serbia abroad. It is believed that, indeed, as well as famous imports from France, Mr Bozidar Delic deserved that post as the minister for the diaspora, but remained remembered for, unfortunately, one incident about the unintended allocation of funds from the funds that was called by this ministry to shoot a totally irrelevant film in Canada. At the time, the main finding of the diaspora was that the diaspora ministry became a diaspora counter. We can't help but remember the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, when we first fought to preserve the state, later to preserve and save Serbs' rights in the areas of the former Yugoslavia and, in the end, we came out of that whole story as the main culprits for its collapse. What few nations failed to climb back then, unfortunately on tractors, were left behind all these years and almost had no support from their queen. For those who were forced to come and live in their womb, we use a jargon term and call, unfortunately, refugees. The highest price for all of this was unfortunately paid by Serbs in the mentioned republics of ex-Yugoslavia – Slovenia, Macedonia, Croatia, Montenegro and BiH. It can't be forgotten that at the announcement of the adoption of this diaspora law, she reacted greatly. Then we wonder why and what are the reasons for her reaction? Perhaps simply because the political and economic status of our immigration is completely different and better than those unfortunates who had no opportunity to climb into tractors when the former Yugoslavia fell apart. That's the difference between diaspora and Serbs in the region. I have to state, regardless of the fact, that a good division in this law on Serbs in diaspora and Serbs in the region, because it is really different categories of people. As you yourself have said, four million people originate in these areas (of course, by unofficial statistics) make up almost half of the population living in Serbia, located outside the country of origin, the capacity is also the potential that unfortunately our authorities do not constantly see in the previous period, except for that figure in which it is concerned, and occasionally abuse it. Our state has no precise record of how many Serbs live outside Serbia's borders. I must remind you of the fact that since the 1990s, 500,000 Serbs have gone here beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia. They're numbered by 5,000 doctors of science, which is an impressive figure, you have to admit, and over 100,000 graduates. What happens after January 2010, when, fortunately, we get a Schengen visa and because of a situation like this, unfortunately, in our Serbia, there is probably a new wave of migration, and all for the reason of "the belly after bread"? The process, regardless of the wishes and people of the ruling coalition and all serious elements on the Serbian political scene, has no tendency to weaken, or more and more, unfortunately. I have to remind you of one situation, not so long ago, when on TV B92, the impression of a week was one student who, after finishing his studies at the medical school with an average score of over 9.50 enrolls in med school. Not because it needs to be perfected completely in the area, because it is necessary by completing studies and evaluations to show that it has perfected itself, but because for him to go abroad, i.e. a continuation of life in the diaspora, it is necessary and that element of the diploma to be able to work and succeed when, unfortunately, with a college completed and such an average rating, there is no chance of employment in our country. Mr. Cvetkovic's government and you, Mr. Minister, point out that you intend to return a large number of experts to the country. You state the reason that a lot of them either failed or were motivated by patriotic nostalgia. Once again, I ask you about previous exposure, what are the reasons that will bring them back to the country and where will they be employed? What economy is that? Unfortunately, this Serbian, in which the economy hardly exists, and no one cares about agriculture. Or is it likely to be employed in tourism, which is the 26th hole in the playing field, because there are 25 ministries in such a small country? Only they can be guided by the idea that they will succeed, as some ministers have succeeded from the diaspora, and by the finding, all known, that some of them are among the richest Serbs in the world. The fact is that since the five-October changes, but the second term, the SPO personnel dominates the resolution ministry. Vojislav Vukcevic, the first minister from your party in Kostunica's government, defined the list of Serbs in the diaspora as the basics of state policy. It is up to you, Mr. Sredkovic, to finish this job, because in that period almost nothing has been done on this important state policy issue. I'm also taking this opportunity to ask you if you're working on it in the ministry and how long it's been. Mr. Vukčević was temporarily resented that he did not use the possibility and often did not travel to large diaspora centres, either in Europe or across the ocean. I hope you, Mr. Minister, have a chance to correct this situation. Because in the realization of this grand project, the list of all Serbs in the world, and the estimates, as you state in the law, which of them is the most prominent in the environment in which they live to be elected delegates of the assembly, you really have to take these steps and do it. Once again, I wonder how it is possible to implement such a giant diaspora project, which should answer the question of how many Serbs live outside Serbia, when, for example, by polls, of 10 respondents, one surveyor knows about the diaspora ministry. Data on the number of Serbs in the dispersion, such as that, range from two to four million. It cannot be forgotten that, according to the latest census conducted in the Republic of Serbia, in 2002, only 400,000 people in the distance were reported to our diplomatic and consular representatives. That same year, official German statistics on data are to be trusted that 800,000 people live in Germany from Serbia, and Austria has a figure of 300,000 Serbs on its territory. So, in a collection of our statistics, there are several million people lost somewhere who lead the origins of today's Serbia. It is an unofficial assessment that our diaspora numbers four million people, and we are aware of the facts (we also have lists from countries in the environment, i.e. in the region) that half of these people are being lost on the diaspora, and that half of the people in these areas belong to the countries of the former Yugoslavia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Albania. In chronological order, there are 1,600,000 Serbs in the Federation of BiH 50,000, in Croatia and Montenegro about 200,000, Macedonia and Slovenia about 40,000, Romania 22,000, Hungary 15,000 and Bulgaria 10,000. When it comes to the rest of our diaspora, it must be mentioned that from our country to the white world has gone to several stages and on many occasions. The first major wave of departure from our country was in the 19th century, and we can call these movements economic migration because they are of this very nature. In that first wave of migration, people went exclusively to the US and Western European countries. The second wave of migration, so-called political migration, it was in the post-World War II period, and it is mainly called Chetnic migration. Since 1990, with a process that, unfortunately, is still going on, we have both political and economic migration. I sincerely hope that one day it will come to an end. All these waves of migration have led to a situation that Serbs have settled in almost all parts of the world. It is estimated that some 1,300 different associations and associations work across our country's borders. In your explanation of the reasons for the adoption of this law, you mention the organization (I didn't count them, but I don't think you counted them more than 50; it may be, but it's not a figure of over 100). In any case, 1,300 associations, organisations, clubs and everything else in the diaspora and the region is indeed a small number, given the participation of these organisations in the public debate and their initiative and proposals for possible improvement of this law. It is a fact, both yours and ours, that nearly half of the population of Serbia living in the diaspora and the region is a tremendously large capacity and potential of Serbia. And you can't just stay on that, because the state summit has not literally had any special strategy for this area so far, or has left that strategy to individuals, even individuals have abused and used the situation to decide on their own behalf instead of a state or some ruling structure. A third of our people living outside Serbia's borders almost had no right to vote either, unfortunately, nor to the Serbian passport, and it can't be forgotten the findings you said, and it is indeed official, partly off-the-book, that about five billion dollars will enter Serbia through foreign currency, forgetting the fact that a lot of money is still coming into the pockets, which is roughly the figure of about 20% of the gross social product, which is the situation that all governments have since 2000, so we say in Serbia literally saves to remain in power. In the past, political parties, as well as the state, have often deceived and deceived the diaspora. Some leaders, still Serb leaders in the diaspora, say the opposition in Serbia in the early 1990s wouldn't have been there if it hadn't been for help from the diaspora. And you have to agree to that finding. And your party has been quite funded by various organizations and diaspora associations in the past. You cannot forget the fact that you do not point out and that you have not pointed out anywhere so far, that the state of Serbia has deceived the diaspora fund for the queen by about 3.5m euros, which have disappeared by bankrupting the Belgrade Bank. Now, Mr. Minister, I ask you, what have you done on this matter of getting your money back? (Srdjan Sredkovic, from the post: We returned it. If you've returned it, it's an honor. It is indeed the same situation and legal obligation as in the case of old foreign savings. If you did it, or the state, on any initiative, I welcome it. One statement. If Serbia were to return to the country, let's say, at least one fifth of all evictive Serbs, more money would enter the country than the World Bank and the IMF enter each year. It is a fact that no one in Serbia should bend his head and cross it. The biggest problem is that in the last 50 to 70 years the diaspora, especially because of this political migration, has lost confidence in its queen, or state, and if the state has, and must have, and has a strategic interest in working with its diaspora on partner grounds, then it must in practice and prove itself and prove itself. I sincerely hope that passing this law is only an introduction to that good lead between the queen and the diaspora.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27309	Time, Mr. Rogovic. Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Nikolic, representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27310	Before I speak to the minister and make a more detailed comment on this law, I would say to my predecessor, since in Serbia it is "in" to talk about the first Kostunica government and, in general, Vojislav Kostunica, that this is the first government to introduce the Diaspora Ministry and move towards establishing better relations with our diaspora. There were many officials before that first government of Kostunica who not only had institutional ties to the diaspora, but had just shared the diaspora as suitable and unfavourable, and those with whom they should be co-operated and those with whom they should never be co-operated. So, so much for the contribution of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. It is not good that this process that has been started has its own form in the form of this bill that is bad. There is a need, but the problem is that this is a bad response to the need that Serbs outside Serbia have, so to establish strong relations with their queen, and there is no consequence of the intruding into the political conflicts that exist in this country. To be more specific, I think that, as a state, we should have a united view of the Serbian diaspora within a national programme that we should all agree on, but unfortunately, we are also divided on the issue. This is a pure politicisation and intrusion of the Serbian diaspora, which is also politically divided, that certain people are released in these institutions, the Assembly and the Council, by key, or by political similarity, and according to the criteria of the Ministry of Diaspora, while some access will obviously be banned. That's not good. In my first presentation, I asked you one question, and I hope that you will not, as Minister, be here for three or four hours and listen to what the MPs have to say to you, but also give some answers to specific questions. In the opening statement, you cited 20 Serb organisations in the diaspora that supported this law. I asked you a specific question. I may have misunderstood, but the question remains and I want an answer. Do you have a written, stamped and certified signature of any president of the organisation from the Serbian diaspora that he supported this law? I said in the beginning, I'm saying you don't. If you don't, then I draw a logical conclusion that the diaspora does not support this law. If the diaspora does not support this law, it means that this law is not written for the diaspora, and then a logical question is asked - who was it written for? I concluded in my first presentation that I will now repeat, this law was written to keep the Serbian diaspora under control, so that those similar in the Serbian diaspora could participate in these institutions. And in a technical, methodological sense, you've messed them up so much, that it really points to an incredible intricacies in the ministry itself. I'll talk about it later, because it's just amazing what you've put into this law. But political motives are, above all, that some people, with whom you already have a certain type of co-operation, in these institutions you appoint, and through this you try to control the Serbian diaspora. That's why I said this is an insult to the Serbian diaspora, and I think that's really an appropriate word for what this law says. The most controversial in this law is the Diaspora Assembly. In your presentation, you said it would count 45 members. This law I have in front of me says 44. What changed in the last two or three days, now that instead of 44 we have 45? By what methodology have you come to the conclusion that the Assembly will count 44, in order to now, in the final phase (as notified, there is an amendment that will increase this number to 45), increase the number of delegates of the Assembly by one? When you form one representative body, and this assembly should be the most representative body of the Serbian diaspora and Serbs in the region, then you must give both form and content to such a body. It is precisely this law that is most problematic and points to great intricacies in writing. It may be an inexperience, but given how long this law has been discussed and how long it has been being prepared and that there has been a previous version, I am surprised that such a law can even come into congregation procedure. It is important to know what powers this congregation will have, what kind of decisions it will be able to make, for which those decisions are binding. Whether the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is bound by the diaspora Assembly, because this law, which is interesting, absolutely excludes the National Assembly, and hence the Assembly Committee on Serbs outside Serbia. In addition to disfellowshipping the most legislative body from this law, the Serbian assembly, it is also symptomatic that Serbs with KIM are not institutionally involved in this law. I'm making the conclusion that you treat the Serbs on KIM as a diaspora. Mr Minister, the President of the Republic and all the numerous ministers and presidents of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina can participate in the Council. What about President KIM? Does the Constitution say we have two autonomous provinces or just one? Who represents Serbs with KIM in these bodies if not? It's a serious failure. If the congregation’s decisions are not binding, then the question is why is this congregation formed. When you form one representative body of 44, or as you say - 45 delegates, it means that people of the same legitimacy sit in that body. They must be selected in the same way. Perhaps, for example, Serbs in America have the best database related to the Serb census, so they will organise some elections, so they will indeed choose the best, somewhere on the board of directors will bring their representatives to be the one and that, and somewhere I don't see how they can choose. For example, for Estonia, Lithuania or Norway, Denmark, Iceland, where there will be a delegate, how will this delegate be elected? Clearly, you will determine it. This is just a second, mild version of the first one, when you're quite unprepared, with one naked variant, you went into the Serbian diaspora and actually wanted to impose everything, so the Serbian diaspora told you that you couldn't do it like that. In fact, you created yourself an institutional, legal framework to do so. If so, and so, and if you are setting up people in the Diaspora Assembly, then it becomes clear that this assembly will represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not the Serbian diaspora. It is particularly surprising and indicates, to say the least, the inexperience of the writer of this law that it is not known what the mandate of this congregation is. Watch out, the Diaspora Assembly is forming. What is the mandate of this congregation? Two years, four years or life? Will this member of the Diaspora Assembly to be elected president of the Assembly be a lifesaver? What if the Serbs in America decide to choose their delegate for two years and the Serbs in France or Germany for four years? How will this congregation have an identical number of conditions in the coming years? This shows that this law was written in haste, that your form was not important to you, that you hid the essence with various provisions, and your intention is, I suppose, to appoint predetermined delegates to the Assembly. There's a lot of awkwardness in this law. Diaspora Day will be Vidovdan. You said he was going to celebrate. It's never a day to celebrate. He's marking himself. It also says in the law, you wrote it in an explanation. It's a sad Serbian holiday. It is good that you have appointed him for Diaspora Day, he warns us all, and he should always be marked, but he is not celebrated. You didn't plan on building a Serbian assembly on Vidovdan, did you? I don't believe it, but it can also be interpreted when this is read. So there's a lot of illogicality in this law. You have given so much responsibility to the council for diaspora, the Council for Serbs in the region, the Economic Council, the Council for Status Affairs, the Council for Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Sports Cooperation, to ask why then the Ministry of Diaspora. If we form this assembly of delegates, all these bodies, then we don't need the Ministry of Diaspora, because you've transferred all the powers to these bodies. I really think you have this noble intention of shutting down, reducing the number of ministries and making your full contribution to a more rational and efficient work by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. All this is saying is that this is the law that you wrote for yourself, that it carries power in the ruling coalition is such that every political party in its own portfolio can organize and create this kind of organization to preserve its own intra-strategic structure and that is, unfortunately, the case with this law. It would be good if we had a unique view of this issue and this law, if we had come to our diaspora uniquely, that we had been given the consent of the diaspora and that we had thus come to the legislative proposal. In this way, there is no unity here in Serbia, and it is also evidence that 11 to 9 voted on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia. A clear signal has also been given from the diaspora, that this law is excessively and does not concern them and that it does not reflect the right picture of the situation, so you will encounter a sharp opposition to this law by the Serbian diaspora. All of this will have concrete consequences for the declared objectives that you have stated here, which I agree with, which is that we need closer co-operation and that we need to preserve Serbian identity in the Serbian diaspora and that we need to motivate people to invest more in this country, but I guess all of this is within the concept of so-called. The new patriotism of the Western type, which you promoted about a month ago. I'm glad you're nodding your head, but I'd really like you to explain to us what this new patriotism of the Western type means, on one condition, to explain to us, then, and what it is, the old patriotism of the Eastern type. Because if there is a new patriotism of the Western type, then the logical consequence is that there is also an old patriotism of the eastern or eastern type. I really think of myself as a patriot and, whenever there are some patriotic issues, I look at them and I love them in some way to participate, but I would like you to explain to me, not just to me, but to the citizens of Serbia what that really means. It is again to this point paradoxically that you, in fact, even if you accept this termology of "new patriotism of the Western type", to people who live in the West, and are Serbs, explain what patriotism of the Western type is. Patriotism exists or does not exist. Thank God, our people, especially in the West, are patriotically defined and know much better and what European integration and European values mean. Many of them just want in one balanced way and according to our mentality not to apply everything that exists in the West and Europe, and that is the value of the Serbian diaspora. I hope you'll answer any of these questions I asked you. How do you plan this congregation to exist? What's the mandate? I'm not happy with the answers that you're going to define this by sublegal acts, because it can't be defined by sublegal acts. Why is this to this extent in this law unannounced? Let me announce to you, and when we talk about the amendments, that, unlike you, we have decided that KIM, just like the AP Vojvodina, will have its representative in the Council and that, in that sense, we have made a concrete proposal for KIM to be the president of the Serb Community Assembly at KIM. I hope you adopt that proposal. With regard to the confessions, which are indisputable, as a state and as a Ministry of Diaspora, we have the right to establish, is not the clearest thing why we have a recognition about politics or a political contribution called Car Dušan. We have proposed that the distinction in this area be called 'Freedan Jovanovic', given the importance, work and work of Slobodan Jovanovic, as well as his status, which he may have as an outcast, but certainly as a member of the diaspora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27311	Minister Srdjan Srekovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27312	I did not want and planned to use this procedural opportunity to report as Minister and Proposer of this law for a word after each MP's discussion. After the debate ended, I will refer to all the proposals and suggestions of all MPs and MPs, but since you mentioned some very sensitive political topics, I felt obliged to report on this issue. I must, with a certain amount of surprise, realize that, with great effort and effort, I have failed to understand what you wanted to point out in your presentation. Maybe I'll make it later. You have talked about how important and important the issues of diaspora and Serbs in the region are to your political party and your parliamentary club, but I think the fact of the number of MPs present at this session of the Assembly is, however, showing how important you are to this issue. I just wanted to say one sentence, because the subject is sensitive. The head of the Council for Serbs in the region is the president of the Republic of Serbia, and I think it is the best indicator and safe proof of how much this government and this state pay attention to Serb issues in the region. The president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina is represented in the Council for Serbs in the region because a large number of refugees and displaced persons have a temporary or permanent residence on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Accepting your proposal or suggesting that Serbs from KIM territory have a representative in this council would imply that we, as a state, recognise the independence of KIM. A government in which my political party and my little one will never agree to such a thing. I think you should have thought about it a little better before you put it this way. I will no longer use this opportunity to take my word and take valuable time away from the MPs, so I will eventually discuss all the topics that I think were important, and if you would like to point out how committed you are to the issue of diaspora and Serbs in the region, it would also be useful for the citizens of Serbia to ensure the greater presence of your MPs, because the number of your present MPs shows that this topic is not important to you, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27313	The Republic was directed by Mr Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27314	It is true that three MPs from the DSS parliamentary group are sitting here, and these are three MPs who will talk about this law. Given the quality of the bill, we have estimated that three MPs are quite enough to explain to you how bad this law is, so - according to the saint and the tropic. We know this law is bad and you will be well informed of all the bad aspects that exist in this law. As for KIM, I don't know if you care about what you say. As a key argument, you point out that you did not include representatives with KIM because if you put them into the Council, it could be interpreted as being representatives of Serbs in the region or I do not know what in the diaspora. That's what you said. But then I ask you a question - why is there an AP representative? Is it because perhaps, when voted for the Vojvodina statute, your party also considers Serbs in Vojvodina as Serbs in the region or, God forbid, in the diaspora? You're waving your head off, but believe me, this proposal of the Duke's Statute gives statehood. By using your logic, I want to tell you to step on the ball a little bit and think about it when you make an argument. There is no defense against arguments why there are no KIM representatives in the Council. We've given you an honorable way out of this situation, because it's a serious failure, an oversight, whatever, but if you're not prepared to accept that amendment, then we're in clear positions and we'll know what that really means. Do not worry about the DSS parliamentary group. Pay attention to the MPs of the ruling majority, and especially from your party, because they're not exactly in any great numbers here either. And the MPs present here are quite enough to prove that this law is very bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27315	National MP Jovan Nesovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27316	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we have today a very important system law on diaspora and Serbs in the region. It is a law that should apply to some three to four million people living in the region today, near the state of Serbia, and in a dispersion. The law should try to one systemically involve these people in social, economic and political life in Serbia. We must also begin to say that our diaspora is not as numerous as the diaspora of some other, much larger states, but in a relative sense, if one third of the population lives outside the borders of the state, then it really is a very important thing. It is also necessary to say what the controversy was about, which is that this law has passed a public debate. I'm not defending Mr. Minister right now, but at least six months ago, this law was on the government site of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Resort. Anyone who wanted to look at this law could also look at it and give its suggestions. I have to admit that there are three months since we discussed this law on the Committee of Serbs outside Serbia. The minister read the organizations that participated in the proposals to get as high-quality legislation as possible and indeed, honestly speaking, all those who wanted had plenty of time to give their suggestions and their contribution to making the quality of this law as good as possible. I want to say a few things that are important to me in this law. For the first time, one law defines what diaspora means and who makes Serbs in the region. Diaspora is said to include political and economic emigration from a country that has been going back many years, and Serbs in the region represent our country's compatriots living in the surrounding countries, in the countries of ex-Yugoslavia, and in Article 2 are defined exactly what countries they are. We can talk about whether it can be expanded, but I think this finding, written in this law, is quite good. The most important institution to be formed by this law is the Parliament of Diaspora and Serbs in the region and, as the legislator wrote here, it should be the bearer of the unity of the Serbian state and of our entire national corps. Why? Because there are delegates from all places, from all over the globe where Serbs live, but the work of the Assembly is attended by both executive authorities and the president of the state as an honorary delegate. I think we should accept the amendment here, we also talked about it on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, that also the representative of the Assembly Committee, the National Assembly, has a delegate in this body and is a member of it. I don't think that's the problem, and that, in addition to members who are defined, representatives of the Orthodox Church, representatives of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the Public Service, indeed, and representatives of the Assembly's committee should participate in the work of the Assembly. It should also be said that the congregation does not make any important decisions. It determines the problems of diaspora and Serbs in the region, suggests how to overcome these problems. And that is important, after all. There remains a concern that colleagues have made, and I think there may be a solution here, whether or not it is necessary to limit the term of office of the Assembly to a period of time. Indeed, the length of the delegation's term is something I think the ministry should consider and consult. The law also defined that the closer conditions and way of election of delegates are agreedly determined by organisations under Article 14 of this Law, which operates on the territory of states or parts of states for which a number of delegates are elected. There, it seems to me, is the time to show whether we hit the solution well, for one simple reason, that as much as there is political disunity here in Serbia, there is so much disunity among our people who live in dissipation. I'm afraid at a time when one space should have four delegates, we'll get a list of six or seven delegates. Then there'll be a problem with who the delegates are. I hope that there will be responsibility and those people there who suggest delegates that it will not come to this, but frankly, there seems to be this danger. Time will show whether my fear at this point is truly justified or not. The law also defined that the Parliament of Diaspora and Serbs in the region would function better and easier to solve certain problems that affect those people if we have three councils, so it was defined that it was the Economic Council, the Board for the Status Issues of Diaspora and the Council for Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Sports Cooperation. Articles 24, 25, and 26 of this Law define the work these counselling is doing for the needs of the congregation. It seems important here to say a few things about our diaspora. Many today said that the annual inflow from our diaspora people to the state of Serbia is $5.1 billion. These are some estimates and this represents a very important link in the economic stability of the Serbian state. The data suggests that only from Switzerland on average they send about 4,000 euros annually to Serbia, which means that annually, from that small country, Switzerland, around 360m euros will come to Serbia. On the other hand, Serbia's biggest signs are from people from Germany, and that is over a billion euros, according to the World Bank. It should also be said, regarding the diaspora, that it should never be forgotten how selfless material and financial aid was during the sanctions and the war on these premises. Had it not been for the diaspora, a large number of people in Serbia would have lived in misery and suffering. I think several times so far it has been said that diaspora also plays a significant role in Serbia's economic development, i.e. in the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises whose owners are people from the diaspora. About 500 million dollars has been invested so far and currently over 20,000 people are working in these companies. Every place in the state of Serbia, especially in these times of crisis, is very important and I think that there can and must be done more in the coming period. The ministry and all other ministries have to do much more, because, by some estimates, the potential of investing our diaspora in general is not only in Serbia, but in any other state, somewhere over $20 billion. It's a really great potential and it really has to be done in the coming period to make these potential investments of our people come to Serbia, not to go to other countries in the environment and to other countries of the world. After all, it is very important to point out, and there should be this advice to make a maximum contribution, that around 50,000 people from the diaspora currently have higher education and work in technologically powerful companies. About 8,000 science doctors are currently also working in top scientific and university institutions. It would be too high to say how much this would be a great incentive for the development of the Serbian state to better establish a connection with these people, that some people do not have to return, but to help with their knowledge of the development of our society. It is also important, I think, to form a Council for Relations with Serbs in the region, for the simple reason that the problems of Serbs in the region are quite different from the problems of our diaspora, and this council should deal with co-operation, protection of interest and improving the state's relations with Serbs in the region. It is true that Article 28 defines all issues to be addressed by the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region. I think it is good to accept the amendment to participate in this council, alongside the president of the state, the Prime Minister and the Ministers who are listed, and the President of the National Assembly. The amendment should be accepted for the simple reason that all the most important institutions of this country will then deal with and think about how to solve problems that are tied up, and there are really many, from refugee issues, poverty of these people, that is, underdevelopment, to the protection of national identity and everything that is related to the letter, language and everything that exists today. The budget fund for the diaspora is also an important thing, for the simple reason that they are trying to solve in one system way certain issues that have so far been unresolved. It is good that the minister said that the initial part of the budget should be from Serbia's budget, and all that comes from the people who give, make donations and contributions will be the main source of funding for the activities listed. I hope that this will be systemically done and that the state will finally establish control, that it will not be, as so far, many donations and contributions that have been completely well-intentioned, seem to me, in the hands of individuals or in some jobs that are not done as they should have been done and for what the money was intended for. In the end, I am absolutely certain that the application of this law will improve the relationship between the diaspora and the queen. On the other hand, I hope that the application of this law and the work of all ministries, not only of the Ministry of Diaspora, will contribute faster to Serbia's development, which means faster integration of Serbia into the world of developed countries, i.e. in the EU. As far as the G17 Plus parliamentary group is concerned, we will uphold the law in principle. I hope it will be accepted and a few of these amendments that I don't think are essential, don't change the law. I hope that other parliamentary groups will also support the law and that we will vote on diaspora law and Serbs in the region in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27317	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. I apologize, before the People's MP Aleksandra Jankovic, the People's MP Milorad Buha came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27318	I'll continue what I started. In fact, it is a very important law, but my suspicion is that, like the other laws, it will be a dead letter on paper, and I will try to support certain facts and data that speak of applying legal rules in practice. In fact, we have a clear provision in the 2006 Constitution that obliges the Republic of Serbia, or its state bodies, to do everything to protect the rights and interests and freedoms of our citizens abroad. In addition, we have a number of legal regulations that speak in a direct or indirect way about this obligation. What have the state authorities done to bring about this constitutional and legal right of the refugees and Serbs living and working in dispersion so that they can live in normal conditions? Almost nothing, it's a general finding. Why? Here, let's start with a simple fact, say between three and four million Serbs living abroad. Why don't the state authorities write down Serbs living abroad? Why wasn't that done? Is this a phenomenon that's been present for a month now or have we been here for 200 years? And today we have the migration of this or that guy, going abroad to work or exile from the former Yugoslavia because of various methods of repression against Serbs. Now I'm going to give you an example. Compare data on the number of animals in certain municipalities, go to the veterinary station and we will get exactly how many dogs there are, how many cats, cows, horses, etc. How many refugees in these municipalities do we have that information? Why don't we have it? The government has to answer that question. Did this law define the obligations of the state authorities? We did, just the diaspora department, nothing else. What will the Diaspora Ministry do with 30 people? Nothing. Almost all European embassies abroad have more workers than you do. What are those embassies doing? What's the State Department doing? Do they have that information? They do. And if they don't, they have to get to them. We want to talk and talk about how Serbs create economic preconditions, help here, want to invest, etc. What conditions have we created for them here in the last eight or nine years, in the last 50 years? Nothing. Why none? What regulations allow these people to come here and have benefits? Why are you benefitting? Because it comes here during religious holidays or collective vacations in Western countries or third countries. What are the benefits of these people? They're gone. By creating and working there, people have achieved certain resources and want to invest them here. Tell me one of the municipalities that's dedicated to the people from abroad who are coming back. Give me at least one municipality. The same question can be asked for refugees. Tell me one of the municipalities that has singled out one refugee pay for this year, internally displaced faces. The only one who did it in her day was the Zemun municipality, which provided tens of thousands of crying. What about the tax system? What about economic conditions to allow them to enter and invest? This law had to work it out, but it didn't solve it. When we look pragmaticly at the application of not only this law, then we have to get out of it. Without pragmaticity in legal regulations, we'll do nothing. Serbia's state authorities are doing nothing to make life easier and to be people abroad. We can see that through the Budget Law, which has separated about 130 million to 150 million diaspora diaspora diaspora diaspora diaspora organizations over the last three or four years. It's too small, almost nothing. The members of the SRS opened on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia said - we will provide maximum support, this level of resources allocated for assistance must be decimated; and that is small, but let's start so much. Is there any such obligation here in law? What did we suggest? Simply say - 0.2% of the state's GDP for the previous year has to be allocated for this, and then it's legal and then it's the obligation of both the finance minister and the Prime Minister and the president of the state to provide the funds. Without real legal regulations, it's not worth talking about. In the next year, you'll see, you'll get far less than this. What are you gonna do? How to impregnate, how to live, how to implement the law? There's no way you're gonna bring him back to life. The state of our diaspora abroad is very difficult, subject to huge assimilation of great nations and great states. There is huge discrimination, especially because they are Serbs. The world has created such miles. These are the people who carried out genocide, who committed huge war crimes in BiH, in Krajina, in Serbia, in Kosovo, etc. What have we done here? How could we, and we didn't, change that picture of everything they created for us in the West? We didn't do anything. Now let's see what we're doing to help refugees who, unfortunately, had to leave their hearths from today's democratic (as they call themselves) states. I will look back at Croatia, as I am one of those who has been expelled. Unfortunately, between 500,000 and 800,000 people were expelled. Here, I will quote the Deputy Prime Minister, who is in one meeting, addressing the associations of refugees, openly said, and this was said on 12 August 2008, that the Republic of Croatia is consciously and tendingly slowing down the refugee return process, restoring their property and achieving their pension and job rights. Then it continues - the government must insist on the consistent implementation of the Sarajevo Declaration, the Succession Agreement and other legal acts between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia concerning refugee rights. At the same meeting, SDSS President Vojislav Stanimirovic presented real information about what is happening in Croatia. Many international humanitarian organisations say the return to the end is the rule that Serbs have returned. They returned on the basis of data they received from Croatia. Croatian state authorities are knowingly lying, manipulating, and this is confirmed by Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobabic, who says - consciously and tends to slow down the return and return of rights and property. Vojislav Stanimirovic says -- in 2007 Croatia returned to Serbia 3.818 Serbs, while returning and living in Croatia all the time, 1,480 Serbs. Now, that's a real condition. Croatian state authorities, assisted by Serbian state authorities, are manipulating the international community because you are silent. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are silent about it, as well as your ministry, ministers. The real situation that you have combined with the creation of this booklet - the position and perspective of the Serbian people and states from the countries of the environment, which you have given to members of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, clearly demonstrates the state of the Serbian population in Croatia and what are the accumulated problems. However, in response to my parliamentary question, the Vice-President and the first deputy president say: The Refugee Commissioner, in co-operation with the Foreign Ministry, is conducting intensive foreign policy activities, pointing to problems and seeking help and support to continue the Sarajevo process. That's the biggest stupidity I've ever read. He further says: The Commissioner for Refugees, in co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is conducting intensive foreign policy activities. Where's the law? The Refugees Act was inaugurated by the Commissioner for Refugees. The refugee commissioner runs foreign policy. It's in practice really like that. The foreign ministry does not lead foreign policy in terms of protecting the interests of the evasive population. And who's leading? A Commissioner for Refugees. The Commissioner for Refugees of the Republic of Serbia has been inaugurated as an external political arbiter protecting the interests of refugees. It can't be. It's against the law. And now I'm going to tell you why. In 2007, during a meeting of a single body in Zagreb, Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic said, probably a sentence ran out of the plan when he told the real truth - that he had been expelled from Republika Srpska (he did not say from Republika Srpska, but said - from Croatia) 220,000 Serbs. And only because of that sentence did he become a persona non grata for Croatian diplomacy, but also for European and American diplomacy. Biden's attitude towards the foreign minister is the best picture of why he is a persona non grata in the European and Euro-American spheres. This year, when the foreign minister was scheduled to attend an international conference and speak with Croatian diplomacy and with international mediators about the situation and problems of the Serb refugees and points to huge problems that plague the population, he simply did not get a call. Croatian Foreign Minister Jandrokovic said he didn't belong there. It's a disgrace to Serbian diplomacy. Where was the president of the state? He went there to apologize. Why didn't he protect the foreign minister? Why didn't the government protect the foreign minister? If the foreign minister went to Croatia and said what he said and lied to, then he must answer because he defamed a country. Unfortunately, he told the truth. Both the government and the president of the government and the president of the state were entwined, like a snail when they were involved. They didn't protect the minister, and that moment on the outside, nothing happens anymore. On the outside, the issue of refugees is the Commissioner for Refugees. Who thinks more in the world about the refugee commissioner as one foreign political body representing, who is seeking, demands, etc.? Just because there is no strength, there is no desire by other senior state authorities and ministries. Ministers, the government of the Republika Srpska Krajina, whose head I led, on several occasions addressed you with specific problems, brought problems to refugees and gave solutions. Until it sits with the international community, international institutions, and above all I think of the OSCE, the EU and the UN, and until Croatia is forced to carry out everything it is bound by international law, international conventions, declarations, etc.... The government of Republika Srpska through MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe during 2006 carried out a declaration. The declaration was adopted on 26 January 2006 and carries number 374. This is the most significant international legal act by the Republika Srpska government, with the full support of the SRS and individual MPs who are members of the parliamentary assembly. I'll try to convince the short version here. The conclusion of the declaration under 1) reminds that pressure and terror on Serbs and particularly ethnically motivated military offensives in 1995 have cleared the entire territory of Serbs. This is a very serious qualification. Conclusion under 2) - regretting that Croatia did not allow expelled Serbs to return and enjoy their human rights until 10 years later, resulting in a small number of returnees. Under 3) - stressing that in 1990 Croatia was a state of Croats and Serbs as equal constituent peoples and that the Croatian parliament, in violation of its own constitution by the vote of only Croatian MPs, changed the status of Serbs to a national minority. Under 4) - acting in full in the opinion of 196 of 1996 and Resolution 1809 of 1996, Parliamentary Assembly under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms... The signed members downstairs strongly appeal to the Croatian government to adhere to its human international obligations and take all necessary measures to enable Serbs to regain their status, full autonomy, individual and collective rights and freedoms and invite the Assembly to ask Croatia to apply the standards of the Council of Europe, the EU and the UN. This declaration is signed, certified, it is the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does it bind the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia? It's binding. What did the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do to materialise, implement the provisions of this declaration? Nothing. I'm telling you, no body, I'm going to ask you now, within 15 days, will deliver this declaration to any other state authority. Because she's somewhere who knows where, in some archives. Who does he commit to? No one. We must also refer to the signed interstate agreements between the SRJ, that is, the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Croatia on certain issues. The first was, in 1996, the Agreement on the normalisation of relations between the SRJ and the Republic of Croatia, which said in Article 7 "The parties to the Agreement will provide conditions for the free and safe return of refugees and displaced persons to their residences or to other places they choose freely. Foreign Contracting Parties will provide those persons with a return to their property, i.e. a fair compensation." Look, there's even a fair fee. Did any Serb who was expelled receive a fair fee? Not one. Why? Because there is no state behind it for Serbia, no one to implement this. How many Serbs are returned? They said between 500 and 800 thousand. I don't know. The Croats know. The international community also knows because it has created persecution and ethnic cleansing and genocide over the Serb people. They know that. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do not know that information. That's sad. Unfortunately, fair compensation must be, it is international law and this agreement is based on international law. Who stepped into the protection of Serbs to... (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27319	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27320	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not want to repeat what we all obviously have full agreement on, and that is that the issue of diaspora and our Serbian citizens and not only Serbs living in other countries is an extremely important issue and that the adoption of legislation that would regulate this issue is of particular importance for this country. Countries that have a much smaller diaspora, countries that have many more inhabitants, many more human and other resources and potentials, with much more attention and legal conditions regulate the issue of their country's relations with their citizens living outside the country of origin. So there is no doubt that the issue of the Serbian state's relationship to its own diaspora and Serbs living outside Serbia is one of the most important issues. In a sense, when we think and talk about what is the essence of the National Corps, it may be the most important question, if we want to deal with it seriously. The relationship to the diaspora has gone through various historical stages, and we must in some way treat what was happening in the nearer and slightly distant past, so from the time our people living in the world were declared traitors and enemies, to the moment when these same people, or some other people, who also lived around the world, who showed their willingness to help the country in difficult times, were abused in the worst possible way. And besides, I think they all show special interest and desire to establish co-operation with this country and feel like they're in their own business. At the same time, it is particularly important for the state to define its relationship with them. We will, of course, vote in favour of this law because we think that, although there are shortcomings in our court, it is still the basis for establishing a different and more quality state relationship with our people in the world. The basic question is whether this is a law on diaspora and Serbs outside Serbia or a law on the relationship of the Republic of Serbia towards diaspora and Serbs outside Serbia. In that sense, there is a certain dilemma for us when it comes to the name of the law itself. We'd probably make a difference between us about whether this is supposed to be a diaspora law. If we were to interpret the meaning of the diaspora law, he would be more concerned with diaspora issues and less with the relation of the mother country to the diaspora. In my deep belief, the law should be passed primarily in order for the state to establish its relationship with diaspora and Serbs outside Serbia, in order to identify bodies that will deal with improving these relations, to establish instruments for improving these relations, and in this respect should not address issues of organisation of the diaspora itself. If we start with who this law refers to, how it defines what the diaspora terms and members of the Serb people living outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia are, in our opinion, one flaw. It is said that the term "diaspora" means citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad and members of the Serb people of the eviction from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and from the region and their descendants. So, if they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what about those who do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, but are originating in these areas, Serbia is seen as a country of origin and, like these others, are ready to participate in anything that will contribute to the development of both the country of origin and the country of origin in which they live with the country of origin. I think that if there is an amendment that corrects and in some way removes this deficit, that amendment should be accepted and that should cover all those to which this law should apply. At the same time, we think that the word “seed ” is missing, because there are third and fourth generations of our emigrants living in the world. These are the descendants of our people who went into the world. They still feel a strong connection with the country of origin of their ancestors and need to establish full co-operation with that country. I think that the definition of the one to which this law applies should also be complemented by the words "and their descendants". Now the question remains what does it mean in Article 4. ''which are not covered by Article 2 of this Act, if there is common awareness of the need... '". If it's about the consciousness of the state, it's hard to understand what that means, whether the consciousness of the state can be defined. We think there's a much simpler way to define this. All those who experience Serbia as a country of their origin are those to whom this law applies and I think that this issue of common consciousness nor defines to a sufficient extent what it is, nor can we or anyone else understand what that concept can mean. If it's two sides, then it's really a big question whether the state has that kind of consciousness, whether the state is one side of that same consciousness. So I think maybe that's what we should consider and see if there's any way we can fix it. Now we come to the question -- if this is a law that defines the relationship of the state of Serbia and its institutions towards the diaspora and Serbs living outside Serbia, is it then a place in this law of the diaspora Assembly, established in this way? Because it can be interpreted that the diaspora Assembly is essentially prescribing the terms of organisation of the diaspora itself, which I don't think was the intention of the legislator, but in the way he's set up here right now, it can leave the impression that it is the legal regulation of how the diaspora is organised. As for the very composition of the Assembly, I must say that, working as a secretary in the Emigrants' Matica of Belgrade, I have met many emigrants and met many emigrant organizations. They can be said that there is often a large division among them, some kind of competition that often does not lead to common language. I do wonder how it will be possible to establish this assembly in the way it has been proposed, how these organisations that are formal delegates in that assembly will be able to agree that they are represented by the very representatives of the organization. I think it's going to be a big problem in the realisation of this law. Questions have been opened that have not been defined - who calls on the congregation and what its mandate is. If we are already prescribing the bodies that are being set up in a certain way, then it is necessary to define by that same act and how long the term of office is. Because this really leaves the issue completely open, and in this case, the Assembly itself determines how long its mandate will take, and we know that, under the law on organisation and social and other organisations, there are legal conditions that always determine these issues as important issues, which are defined when it comes to organisation. The question is also raised – if Serbia defines its position and its relationship to the diaspora, why are the councils being elected by the assembly, and the state does not have the authority and advice dealing with diaspora issues? In some ways, it is also as if this is being organised by the diaspora, not by the state to respond to the needs and demands of the diaspora. Of course, when we analyse how two groups of our citizens are defined to whom these laws apply, we understand why there is a difference between diaspora and what Serbs are in the environment. So there is a need for these two areas to be separated and to deal with these issues in different ways because there are indeed different problems that burden and different needs that arise in one or another group. But then the question arises – if the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region is a body organised by the Republic of Serbia, which is the highest state representatives, to some extent an operational body, an executive body, an administrative body that should deal with these people's issues, is its composition, what is it proposed, which is the most representative, and most operational? So, can such a composition really deal with the issues that have been put into his jurisdiction? Because, not to say again, these are the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, ministers, etc. At the same time, the Diaspora Council is formed by representatives of the ministries. So the question remains -- on what basis is the assessment (maybe there are reasons, we do not see them here at least clearly) of the Council for Serbs in the region formed at the highest national level, and the Diaspora Council at the level of administrative, or executive authorities? We think it would be a happier solution that both are formed in the same way, because it needs to deal with very specific issues, to meet very specific requirements that need to be addressed. In that sense, it is a better solution to be representatives of certain ministries, because this is about interdisciplinary issues -- culture, language, economy, education, what rights they want to pursue. We think it might be better if the state had formed organs that it has given jurisdiction to deal with issues of mutual interest, both for the state of Serbia and for the diaspora, or Serbs living in the environment, than those representative bodies that are objectively unable to deal with what are specific problems and issues. I really believe that there are amendments that need to be seriously considered. This law should be passed and we will certainly vote for it, but we are really encouraging the minister to consider amendments and accept anyone who can remove ambiguities, explain and make this law more applicable. We are certainly, as a parliamentary group, ready to talk to MPs who have submitted amendments and to see how, if these amendments are not generally acceptable, that, possibly through the committee in charge, we agree and accept them. So I understand from all the discussions that it is a general interest to have this law passed. The general agreement exists that it is important that this law is also given wider support and, in that sense, I think that if we all work together to hear each other carefully and to respect the remarks that can contribute to the improvement of this text, we will come to the text of the law that will achieve those objectives that make this law possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27321	Mrs. Jankovic, you signed up. To make a deal, you can talk to me by six o'clock today, and in the morning you can continue or... So that's what you want? Here, you have a word. Now you've got eight minutes left and you've got 12 for the morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27322	I would like to report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27 paragraph 1 point 3, in relation to Article 104. If you're not going to preserve the dignity of this assembly, I, as a person, have it, and what you've done is not just discrimination, this is violence. You called me, then you gave your word to Mr. Buha, which I allowed, and then Mrs. Hope Kolundji showed up, which wasn't even reported. I can't live on the phone right now. People are asking me to end every similarity with Mrs. Kolundji. It really doesn't make sense for me, as an authorised representative, to be called by Mrs. Hope. Now they call me and tell me I have a double in the congregation. With all due respect to Mrs. Kolundji, I really can't be her twin. In doing so, I know that your intention is to complete your discussion of authorised representatives at six o'clock by praising this law. But I will certainly not praise him, I will use my time to the end, even though you have truly hurt my dignity and I find it inadmissible, but this shows that violence in Serbia produces this very power. It's not violence on the streets. You made it, you make it in the Assembly, you break the Rules of Procedure. You have changed the Rules of Procedure, violated the authority of the Assembly, made a government that no serious citizen believes is asking anything about any questions in Serbia, and now we have this "Serb Ministry outside of itself", so that the ministry, forgive me, represents a man who is a promoter of NATO campaign in Serbia right now. I'm sure, I can see by these papers here, that it's not easy to make a good law on Serbs outside Serbia. That is a fact, a team before strong diaspora would need strong Serbia. But when the state is so powerless and paralyzed, all thanks to my so-called. The two here, then there is no state policy that would preserve the economy, lead a fair social policy, establish a consistent strategy for Kosovo's defence (Mr. Sredkovic, Kosovo is still part of Serbia), regulate Vojvodina's autonomy according to the constitution (and Vojvodina is part of Serbia), secure media freedom and establish foreign policy priorities that are in Serbia's state interest. The rights of the majority are at stake here, and of that "Serb Ministry outside of ourselves" we need a much more "minister for the endangered rights of the Serb majority". The state goes bankrupt, raises commercial loans, not for employment, but for the budget. For the first time in Serbia's history, budget users are supported by loans. Now this party government seems to expect foreigners to support the state -- of course, then they're going to ask for a little of Vojvodina, so in turn -- so if you could get a little bit of something from these so-called. The Serbs of strangers. Among other things, currently 492,000 people receive some salary and about half a million people are on various 'waits', 550,000 administrative workers -- you'll be doing it in a moment of work, a million and a half pensioners -- you're counting, you'll probably die, 20% of the people in Belgrade are starving, 30% of them are cut off by electricity because they don't have money to pay, you're firing 14,000 workers who are unwanted because they're partyly unsuitable, but you'll already somehow hire 14,000 alike. It is not easy for you, Mr. Sretkovic, to decide whose minister you are, and especially it is not easy to run an intensive NATO campaign and to claim that NATO is the one who can save us. It used to be that -- I love Tito more than my mother, and now it's -- I love NATO more than Nana. Follow the Internet a little bit and see how young people express themselves at your expense. However, the ones you're trying to put in jail and which will be necessary dispersion and diaspora. Because anything different in mind and everything that has a sign of a national, patriotic, conscious and spiritual is something that you find undesirable. Why? Because it's "new patriotism." Mr. Sretkovic, I am pleased that there is an agreement between you and the "yellow axle", as yesterday, this "Sunatovac" in a debate with Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic spoke of some new patriotism. It is really not clear to me yet, and not only to me, but also to the Serbs from the diaspora who published it in the magazine "The Roots", the list of Serbs growing up. People are asking what this means that Serbia needs a new patriotism of the Western type, transferred by Fonet in 8.9.9. This is what you said - the state of Serbia needs a new patriotism of the Western type, which would make the country an economically strong and politically influential state, which has the strongest countries in the world for allies. What are your allies? Who are the allies of Serbia? The European Union, our strategic partner who's taking away some of our territory? The U.S., which you swear to, which keeps appearing as a guarantee of so-called. An independent Kosovo? Who is such an important world partner to you? And who better than us to protect our national and national interests? Of course, when you step down once and when we create a new political bloc, which will act as a patriotic and national force, which in this assembly, which is outside the Assembly, the NGO "Face", "1389", "Dveri", and all others now presently, you will say, Mrs. Comic, in various investigations, and is being investigated whether they are similar to saying they are Serbs and are proud because they are Serbs. Do you, Mr. Sretkovic, by any chance know what happens to Serbs in Croatia? I have a study here that I assume you could have had if you wanted to. The study was written by Borislav Mikelic, former prime minister of the Republika Srpska Krajina government, who taxed what our people's claims are from the Croatian state: About 600,000 hectares of land, of which 320,000 hectares of the most fertile land, about 120,000 hectares under the forest, vineyards and orchards, about 18 million square meters of building space, of which 14 million square meters of residential space, four million square meters of business space, 400,000 agricultural machines, about 64,000 different motor vehicles, about 440,000 fully equipped bedrooms and living rooms, kitchen and dining rooms, about 760,000 pieces of various home appliances and technical devices, about 980,000 head of cattle, of which 200,000 cattle, 20,000 horses, 260 pigs, 280 pigs and 100,000 goats. I can pass it on to you, to inform you what kind of problems Serbs have...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27323	Mrs. Jankovic, it's 6:00. I just want to say you have 15 minutes left for tomorrow morning. We'll continue tomorrow morning at 10:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27324	And tomorrow morning, I will criticise this law and it will not end with the defense of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27325	Of course, you'll say what you think. It's just, since you're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, that we're inadequately holding a session and giving a word, I'd like to tell you that today we've had the usual way of giving words -- from those present, the president and representatives of the parliamentary groups, from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27326	I was very present.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27327	You were there, but not when it was your turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27328	No, no. We can take a look at the video. I was present, and there's quite a number of evidence and thesis. And I promoted here as "the spirit of Hamlet's father".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-08-0.u27329	Mrs. Jankovic, I suggest you listen to me. So there's no discrimination. It is common to give a word from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group. Those who aren't there, they wait, and they end up getting a word. You weren't there at the time your MP group was up, I'm sorry. Tomorrow we will continue with your participation in the debate. Thank you for your work. Until tomorrow at 10:00, good night.
