ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21677	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT SEVICE SEVEN SESSITS 9 June 2009 (Second Day of Work) – the vote (The session began at 10.25 hours). Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21678	We move to the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work by voting on the single agenda of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Before we move to decision-making, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE PARTICIPATION OF PROFESSIONAL MEMBER STATES IN THE NORWAY CONTENTION IN THE SINGLE BUSINESS OF THE UNITED Nations IN THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD AND CENTRAL AFRISH REPUBLIC (MINURCAT) Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the participation of professional members of the Sanitary Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army as part of the Norwegian contingent in the United Nations Peace Mission in the Republic of Chad and Central African Republic (MINURCAT) for 129 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the participation of professional members of the Sanitary Service of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army as part of the Norwegian Contingent in the United Nations Peace Mission in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Articles 100, 6 and 10. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, the National Assembly will, without delay, declare itself in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 3 June 2009, at 1800 hours, pointed to a violation of article 101. Rules of Procedure. Please state whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. For one, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 126 out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Please, at 11.00 a.m., we'll be in this same numerous conditions here. (The session is over at 10:30. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21679	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT 8th Extraordinary Meeting 9th June 2009 (first day of work)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, we are in the O.R., i.e. there should be 147 MPs. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Please identify yourself. Thank you. By applying the electronic voting system, 136 MPs, or more than one third of the MPs, have been found present in the hall, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21681	Thank you very much. Using the rights that the Rules of Procedure allow us to ask the Serbian government twice a week questions that we consider to be of crucial importance for the Serbian state and the Serbian citizens, on behalf of the SRS, and I am asking the question, and not by chance, because today it is 10 years from the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement, which we seem to have completely forgotten and which the Serbian government is not engaged at all, given that no single point of the agreement has ever been applied, although the agreement has guaranteed 20km of the air zone security and fivekm of land security zone, the return of a limited number of police officers and soldiers to the KIM premises. We ask the question – why is this agreement not to be applied? Why was nothing done to demilitarise the Cypriot KLA, but with the help of an occupation mission, which is present there, they are incorporating, first, to the KPS, and now to the Kosovo security forces? You who welcomed the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement and the signing of the Ahtisaari plan – Chernomidin, today keep quiet, as if nothing had happened both Kosovo and Metohija is further and further away from us. Obviously, it is no longer a topic for the country's ruling structure, but the topic is further breaking the state of Serbia through this first item of the agenda, which the government has provided us with, and that is what Biden asked us to do when visiting Serbia, not to mention Vojvodina and Kosovo, because it is the end of the deal for him. He was talking about five new regions. Here, quickly, the Serbian government prepares the law and sends MPs at such a rate that they have not even arrived to read it properly. This is a very important question, to which we should get an answer, not us, but the public of Serbia. The second question concerns, if you will allow, the unilateral application of the SAA, given that we witness every day that there is an increasing number of hungry people in Serbia, that 30% of those in the folk kitchen have increased, and that those who follow it warn that this number will be increasing. If the Russian Federation is already expanding the number of products that we can export under the most favourable conditions in the world, because we are most privileged in trade relations with the Russian Federation, and we have so much capacity that we cannot even settle the sub-Moscovian area, at least as far as food is concerned, and that would mean a great incentive for our economy, I ask the Serbian Government, on behalf of the SRS, why are we going to this regionalisation, so that these European funds are supposed to be more accessible, because this is an explanation for this law, and we are not going more aggressively to co-operate with the Russian Federation? Why does no bank, except for this Moscow bank, which has come, do anything about the development of the economy, investment in the economy, but exclusively trades with the National Bank of Serbia and gives consumers credit? Could the Serbian Government, within the measures provided for in the economic crisis, address the issue of the banking sector and enable businesses, as all serious countries in Europe, now and in the world, to do, to get favourable loans, to get a new loan, because that is the only way we can get out of such a difficult economic crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21682	Thank you. Mr Milos Aligrudic advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21683	Very briefly, referring to article 27, first of all. Two committees were held this morning – one was the Legislative Committee, the other was for the judiciary and administration. They are scheduled so that members who are members of both committees at the same time, in smaller parliamentary groups, unfortunately, we belong to such ones, and often this confusion happens when it comes to membership in several committees, could not attend. Some members of both committees have not received a call. I think you should also know that you're taking some steps with this, because our members haven't been able to, let's just say, take an opinion on the bill and other things. They weren't physically allowed to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21684	Thank you. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, but it's good to know, considering I'm also responsible for working bodies. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic is advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21685	In accordance with Article 31. The Rules of Procedure and with the members of the Constitution 97, 176, 177 and 178, we received before the start of the session a report by the Committee which adopted the proposal for a law on regional development, the President of the Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, signed and he was appointed rapporteur. I would ask, Madam President, that until the start of the debate on this item of the agenda, since we are not all members of the Legislative Committee, you should provide us, if possible, an explanation, or a stenographic note from the session of this committee, given that the Committee has concluded, by some majority, that the proposal for a law on regional development is in line with the legal system and the Constitution of the RS, and we Serbian radicals claim that it is not. The promoter called, in an explanation, for Article 97(3). The constitution, which says it regulates and establishes a territorial organisation and local self-government, but members of 178, further, speak clearly about Serbia's legal and constitutional system only knowing local self-government and autonomous provinces. The Law on Territorial Organization knows administrative administrative districts, not any regions. Therefore, I ask that, no matter what the Prime Minister says, this be delivered to us and that we see on what basis the Committee has reached this conclusion and what the majority of it has reached.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21686	Thank you. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but the chairman of the Committee, as well as the authorised representative of the Committee, will have his word and will give an explanation at the time when this is the turn. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21687	I have the right to question the Rules of Procedure. On June 7th, additional elections were held in three local self-governments, in the municipalities of Koseric, Vozdovac and Zemun. The atmosphere in polling stations was democratic, all done in accordance with the law. All ballots were counted, logs entered, and then DS went into pursuit to restore lost positions in the municipality of Vozdovac. I ask the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, is he ready to address the Council of Europe, to help him fight against the usurpation of the DS? Is he ready to find, somewhere, Felipe Gonzales, who one year, when the SPS did the same, came here and determined that the results were valid and showed the will of the voters, so the SPS's wish was annulled, then, to fake elections in many polling stations? Is he perhaps ready to call up some new October 5th, where Serbian citizens would save their electoral will, shown in the elections held in a democratic spirit? At the same time, I ask the Minister of Information, is it possible that the media do not know by yesterday afternoon who won the Vozdovac, or that they must not announce from DS that it is no longer the power to rule Serbia, that Serbia no longer needs the power to rule it, that Serbia needs democracy and democratic change? I call on you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to, as representative of our highest legislative body, as president of the Assembly, in which the spirit of tolerance and democracy spread, influence your coalition partners not to make the mistakes you have made, because your mistakes cost Serbia dearly, caused great material damage and related human lives. Therefore, I ask that the Minister of Human and Minority Rights and the Minister of Local Self-Government be urgently declared that it is possible to annul the election results in polling stations where there is no objection entered into the record and, in this way, finally find that one era has passed, that another era has been supported by the first era, and that democracy and rule of law should finally rule Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21688	I thank you, your question will be passed on to the Ministers of Resistance. Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21689	I have a question about the ecological drama in Vojvodina. We've got material from the ecological movement of the city of Novi Sad. This is, in practice, the only non-governmental environmental organization to receive the UN's patronage for the international scientific eco-conferencing on environmental protection for the third time in a row. What's this about? The ecological drama that takes place in India is something that is not unknown to the Ministry of Environment. Namely, a factory for the processing of dangerous chemical waste by the Bulgarian company "Monbat" PLC was built in this perspective Sreme municipality. All permits and approvals for construction are required for a plot outside the sanitary zone of the water catchment area of drinking water, and the construction is started on a completely different plot, within the sanitary zone, right next to the water station, in a legally prohibited place. An alarming warning from the citizens of India, led by the ecological movement, that an illegally built factory would endanger a regional water-related area of drinking water, fraud was discovered, but the factory was already placed under the roof. The water industry inspection has brought a solution that prohibits any construction and works to connect the collectors of technical waste water with the main collector of municipal sewers. The reason is more than justifiable, because if the technological wastewaters of Bulgaria's factories are combined with municipal sewage, 400,000 kilos of lead will be poured out in the Danube annually from Batajnica. It says in the environmental assessment study, submitted by Bulgarian investors to the Regional Secretariat for the Protection of the Environment and Sustainable Development for adoption. According to the Construction Act, this study is a prerequisite for the start of any industrial building. In the case of which we write, the factory has already been built, and the study has not yet been adopted. How is that possible? It is possible; when local self-government is corrupt, construction can start and end without any valid document or consent. In this case, there is no law in India that has not been broken in the construction of that factory. To legalise lawlessness, Bulgarian investors have come up with a ground-floor naive plan, which simply offends the common sense of every man who can read in these areas. The Regional Secretariat for Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development submitted a request to correct the number of parcels, and they called the fraud a printing error. Fortunately for the citizens of Indjija, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning was at the height of its role and on 9 September 2008 a executive solution on the cancellation of all permits and consent and on the ban on the construction of a factory for the processing of dangerous chemical waste in a regional water-related area in the Indji municipality. It is not enough for only one state authority to be at the level of the task; the case described indicates it in the best possible way. When the fraud in the construction of a Bulgarian factory was discovered, it was logical that the municipal public prosecutor acted on official duty, to file criminal charges against all actors in fraud, from municipal, to regional level, which actively or passively enabled the construction of this factory. The municipal public prosecutor does not initiate the procedure, even on the basis of the criminal charges filed by the citizens of Indjia, against a number of appointed local self-government figures that have allowed the illegal construction of a factory for the processing of dangerous chemical waste. The criminal proceedings were not even initiated by the Republic Public Prosecutor for the control of organised crime, although the case was described by the school's example of the preparation of actors from the sphere of crime, politics, executive authorities. Since the Bulgarian president has already pressured the president of the Republic of Serbia twice, for the first time, during a visit to Belgrade for a national team football match, and for the second time during a meeting in Sofia, at a meeting on the "South Stream" pipeline course, all responsibility and consequences, since the start of this dangerous factory, lie with the president of the Republic of Serbia. When environmentalists addressed the president of the Republic of Serbia, with a request to restrain his party colleague, who broke away from any control, he replied not to interfere in the work of the state authorities, and as far as we heard him, he said he would also start fighting organised crime. It would not be bad, therefore, if the environment ministry were to raise this same issue to the president of the DS and the person in the role of Serbian President Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21690	The word is made by Parliamentarian Petkovic Miroslav. As a representative of the Parliamentary Group, is that right, in that capacity? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21691	Of course, you've been delivered everything. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, the first question is addressed to you – when the DSS MPs will receive answers to the questions we asked you under Article 235. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? I remind you that it is more than 20 questions, we have been waiting for some answers since 5 March 2009. It is quite clear that in this way you blatantly violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so I invite you not to do so in the future, although I am sure that I will not get an answer to the next question within the deadlines set by the Rules of Procedure. As an incorrigible optimist, I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic. Namely, the Law on the Budgetary System found the government's obligation to submit a report to the National Assembly of Serbia twice a year on budgetary inspection and audit by the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia on the inspection and audit carried out, with findings, measures and recommendations. So far, a report on budgetary inspection and audit has not been submitted to the National Assembly by the Government, which suggests that the government, by not implementing the law of the prescribed obligation, has violated those provisions of the Law. Otherwise, these provisions of the Law were proposed by the Government itself. At the same time, the National Assembly, as a legislative body and a body whose basic legal function is to exercise control of the executive authority, has been prevented from carrying out this function. As the National Assembly did not consider and adopt the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that the State Audit Institute did not submit any report to the National Assembly in its own section, public expenditures, which in consolidated terms account for 50% of GDP, are outside the proper control of both executive and legislative authorities. I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic – when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia submit the reports in question to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which need to make a review of the Ministry of Finance and the budgetary inspection?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21692	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21693	Thank you. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that you have a problem with the Rules of Procedure, which are Article 86, Section 6 and Article 122, paragraph 1. Article 86(6) says the quorum is determined by the application of the electronic voting system, so that each MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the hall, by inserting an identification card into the parliamentary unit. You don't respect it and it's very harmful for the normal functioning of the Assembly, for the simple reason we can come into a position to be in the O.R. people who aren't authorized to do so. That's one thing. The other thing is a question for you, Madam Chairman. Madam President of the Assembly, when will you put on the agenda the law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina and the confirmation of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21694	First, answer the question. The Law on Jurisdiction is not yet in the assembly procedure, or it has not reached the Assembly, and it will be on the agenda of the same day and the other, and the Statute of Vojvodina and that law. So we expect the government to deliver the law to us. In that sense, we had some arrangements and I think it will be very soon, that it will be during an extraordinary session. Your findings are quite accurate about the first part of your comment. I call on MPs to register in electronic form as soon as they enter the O.R. by respecting Article 86(6). On the Administrative Board and at the meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups, we haven't agreed yet when we're going to apply something that's our responsibility. I fully agree with you, but for years in this House I have not yet decided to change something that has normal status, and that is how I violate the Rules of Procedure. You're right. If you want to make a statement about it as a Parliament, to break the Rules of Procedure, I don't mind, I do violate the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21696	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the issue has been asked to the Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, as well as to all members of the current government, the previous government, their opposition, all who voted in favour of the ratification of the state agreement in the area of energy between Serbia and Russia. So many times we tried to talk, and each time the silence was what was waiting for us after the questions were asked. I believe nothing will change now, but it's one process in which we must resist. I'm interested, Madam President, what's going on with the NIS final account? How is it possible that, after the most grateful year in the oil industry in the world, our oil industry is recording a minus 100m euros, and how is it possible that this minus at this point is completely unpunished through the absence of the process of responsibility and, in doing so, the debt is covered by the real racketeering of Serbian citizens? That's a question, among other things, and for you, Mr. Milosavljevic. You are the minister of trade in the government, I am interested in how it is possible for Serbian citizens to pay the most expensive gasoline in Europe, and how is it possible for the government of Serbia to have an acceptable explanation for new owners, at which the new price of gasoline is, in fact, the result of the high producer price, i.e. the losses they have in their system? Since it is their company, let them resolve their losses within their company, not by charging losses from Serbian citizens. We're paying the price of oil, oil derivatives, like there's $140 in the oil market, and it's under 70. Last time was 66 bucks, when we ran those tests. Who's responsible for such a thing? Three hundred million minus -- Serbian Ways, 100 million minus -- NIS. We've eaten funds obtained by privatising NIS through these two shortages, and now we're facing the fact that in no way can we tell the citizens where the benefits of this great state project are and who is responsible for the fact that the benefits are, in fact, turned into damage that citizens have to pay and cover with their budget. The most expensive gasoline is not what the citizens were offered. More than 200 MPs voted for the agreement, and they now need to take responsibility for the consequences of the agreement, and the silence we face every time we ask the question of the NIS final account, it says how right we are. And for the government, without any desire to be pathetic, one devastating truth, a child who died last week after the disease, died because it wasn't vaccinated in a public vaccination system. Annual costs of such vaccination are 200,000 euros. The final bill the government must pay to the auditor is 1.500,000 euros, as far as they had the opportunity to see through the news that appeared in the media, because no one in the government is publicly talking about it. I'm not saying she wants that accident, but I'm saying she's so messed up she can't spend that scarce asset she's got on her own in a rational way. Who's responsible for what's going on at NIS? We still have 49% of the ownership there, and I think we're told that we can influence the strategic decisions made within that company. Who's responsible for the different views on the final account? And here's the minister who was against the Agreement. Here he spoke at the last stage that preceded the signing itself. Who's responsible for this damage, and how do we proceed? If the company's oil prices are so high, why don't we import that oil that has a lower production price? When will your monopolies be torn down? We have replaced Serbia's state monopoly for the state monopoly of the Russian state-owned company, and that is something that is without example in the world. It is in itself an incredibly paradoxal precedent, which should be spoken of openly, which should be abandoned as soon as possible. This is the topic of the Competition Protection Act, i.e. Anti-monopolitan law. Let us once answer these questions – the final bill, why are costs so high, and when will they end with the kind of racketeering of people living in this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21697	Thank you. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21698	I was referring to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You hurt the Rules of Procedure when you agreed with Mr. Chanko in the fact that we are here in violation of the Rules of Procedure by not having our cards in MPs' units. Article 86(6), which he pointed to, states that the MP must be identified when entering the O.R., not that he must be identified all the time as he sits in the O.R. The only obligation is to take out the card, if it's in the unit, when we leave the O.R., which you don't, my dear gentlemen, from the ruling majority, so no one warns you about it. So you can't agree with an MP who says we don't have the right to sit here and have our cards removed from the MPs' units. That's how you injured Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21699	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Canak, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21700	I'll just remind you of what this member says specifically. "The quorum is confirmed by the application of the electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the hall, by inserting an identification card into the parliamentary unit," which means that the quorum is thus determined. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21701	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21702	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are a few questions. First, for the Minister of the Interior – when will the Ministry deal with abuses in the Public Service, i.e. in RTS, due to numerous abuses in relation to the purchase of Universal Films packages, in connection with PGP-RTS production, was previously called "Gramophone plates", with the organisation of "Eurovision", or "Eurosonga", about something the whole public is talking about, which is a public secret, but is not involved in the MUP? A few questions for you, Madam President of the Assembly. When will the agenda be the law, which I have filed as DHSS MP, on the return of the seized property and compensation, in other words, the law on denationalisation, or the law on restitution? Given that it has been refused to follow the urgent procedure, when will it be on the agenda, because it is our obligation, since we are members of the Council of Europe, and we tend to be a candidate for an EU member? I remind you, this government obviously has no unique position. Mrs Dragutinovic promised that the government's bill would be on the agenda by the end of the year. The Deputy Prime Minister, by the way, in charge of European integration, Mr Djelic, refused and said on Europe Day – the state has no money, there is nothing, and here has not given me a valid answer that the government will deal with something that is its obligation. Since there is a concrete bill, and I remind you, the law on denationalisation has been passed by all the countries of the former SFRY and Republika Srpska, but not by Serbia, the government has moved on. It is headed for new nationalisations, giving Nemanja Kosturica several thousand hectares of land for the National Park "Mokra Gora". On the same basis, I ask – when will the draft law on opening the file, which I also handed over to Parliament as president of the DHSS, and the draft law on amendments to the Ministry Act? We have the largest and most expensive government in Europe, and we are choking in debt, asking the Russians for a billion-euro loan, the IMF has granted us a three-billion-euro loan. Obviously, it's all not enough, obviously we're sinking deeper and deeper. The government should set an example, starting with itself. With the honour and respect of certain ministers and their resolutions, some are completely unnecessary, are subject to political settlements, and these ministers have done nothing. To be fair, their family doesn't know them well, and they're playing some kind of government member. They are only known to visit numerous tourist destinations around the world. So I ask, when will this government reduction law, fully appropriate to the economic, financial and social climate and the situation, be on the agenda, because that Serbia that the world respected, respected and appreciated, at the time of the government of Nikola Pasic, had seven ministers? It pulls both cars and drivers, and teams, and cabinets, and advisors, and state secretaries. I repeat, this is the most massive government in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21703	As you know, I put the denationalization law on the agenda, so it was not voted to go to the agenda by emergency procedure. We are now in a period of extraordinary session and in order to put any law on the agenda, we need to have at least 84 votes for it. My assessment is that these conditions have not been met, but when they do, about all the three laws you mentioned, which are in the process, we'll think about it at a time when we can put them on the agenda. Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he is absent from today's session, Mr Mladen Grujic, acting unanimously to Article 88(1). Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Mr Verica Kalanovic, NIP Minister Dejan Jovanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, as well as Nikola Paak, Deputy Prime Minister and Ivana Grbic, the State Secretary's adviser, who will attend the session from the Great Hall gallery. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in a given agenda as soon as possible. With the invitation of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, which was called upon by the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 169 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Eighth Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 you were assigned the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Regional Development, submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Competition, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a State Aid Control Act, submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds Act, submitted by the Government, 5. Proposal for a mandatory traffic insurance law, submitted by the Government, 6. Proposal for a Law on Associations, submitted by the Government, 7. Proposal for a Law on Community Police, submitted by the Government, and 8. Proposal for an electronic document law, submitted by the Government. I remind you, Article 106 is Section 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that "the National Assembly is meeting in an extraordinary session at the request of at least one third of the MPs, or at the request of the Government, with a predetermined agenda", so that no changes in the agenda can be proposed in relation to the agenda set up for the extraordinary session by the authorising officer. National MP Jelena Trivan, pursuant to Article 90 paragraph 3 and Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on proposals for State aid control laws, amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act and mandatory traffic insurance (points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda). ) Does the MP of the people of Jelena Trivan want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that there were 126 votes against and there were no abstentions, no 35 votes, a total of 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a REGIONAL Development Law (Principles) You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You've received the Legislative Committee's report. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and that is: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica Group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a National MP who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Mile Ilic – MEP SPS-JS, MP Sasa Milenić – MEP Group G17 Plus, MP Zoran Nikolic – MEP DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Nebojsa Razelović – MP of the LDP Group and MP Dragan Stevanović – SRS Group of MPs. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposing representative, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21704	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is an extraordinary honor for me to have the opportunity to present to you the proposal for a law on regional development. This, in my ministry's view, is the most important law in the field of economic development proposed to the Assembly for adoption this year. Why is this an important law? Because it is one of the important steps towards Serbia's decentralisation, because it helps to establish institutions and capacities that will allow the definition of development priorities to be defined in places where people live, therefore, in regions, areas in the local region, and because the implementation of important projects will depend most on those most concerned, which are citizens themselves living in individual cities. Serbia is one of the few countries that has not defined the law on regional development. We've been working on this proposal for a long time. For two years, the ministry has worked; since we formed the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the work on this law has begun. We have included a number of expert consultants in this work, from experts from the European Commission, the European Agency for Reconstruction, through domestic experts. Of course, we have also consulted with representatives of different municipalities who have had some experience in the current period in the process of their development and have installed all of this in the draft that is in front of you. The legal basis for the adoption of this law is the Constitution of Serbia, two of its members. These are members of 94th and 97th, as the Constitution of Serbia states that the Republic of Serbia is looking after balanced and sustainable regional development, in accordance with the law. The law that defines and enables balanced and sustainable regional development is the one that lies before you today. In Article 97. The Serbian Constitution, attitude 12, is also defined as the development of the Republic of Serbia, policies and measures to promote the smooth development of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, including the development of underdeveloped areas, a commitment that the government should legally regulate, and we do so by this law. We also have an obligation under the EU Association Agreement, in Article 113. Agreements to regulate the area of regional development in line with European standards. We've been given that agreement four years to regulate that area. Given that we signed the agreement a year ago, it is our interest to arrange this area as soon as possible, and that is why today this law is before you. I said at the beginning that this is an important step in decentralisation of Serbia. The first step legally arranged in that direction, on a proposal from the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, which the government then adopted in 2006, was the Law on the financing of local self-government. This is a second important step, so the adoption of the Regional Development Act. A third important step will be the adoption of a law that will regulate the return of property to local self-government. The three laws in the package provide a financial basis for Serbia's real decentralisation. In the future, Serbia's political decentralisation will also be said, but the law does not deal with it, or its range is in economic decentralisation and in enabling Serbia to develop more evenly. So, one of the reasons why this law is passed is to allow for the more balanced development of all areas of Serbia, given that Serbia today is a country that has a very pronounced regional disparity, that the relationship between the most developed and the most underdeveloped unit of local self-government in Serbia, even if one by 15, is the difference in regional development, is measured by the index of developmental threat, one to seven, and unfortunately, the tendency for richer municipalities to become even richer, and those who are poor leave them and the few professional staff and go to the richer ones, so they are even more poor, so that it is a tendency which, certainly, must be resolved through some kind of state intervention. State intervention consists of helping those who are weaker and professionally, and organisationally, and financially, to improve their development and to stop this trend of dispersion, i.e. to reduce disparities. Of course, this is a feature of all the countries in the world. All countries in the world have a problem of uneven development and all countries that want a serious economy have thus regulated institutions that allow these differences to be reduced. One of the consequences of unbalanced regional development is the departure of the population from areas that are poor. These are population migrations. I'll give you data on the population movement in certain municipalities in the last 36 years, in the period since 1971, a census from 1971, until 2007, when we had the latest data. For example, in the municipality of Crna Trava, the number of inhabitants was reduced in this period by as much as 80%, in the Shop, 55%, in Gadjin Han –54%, Babusnica – 53%, Medvedja lost 50% of the population, Bosilegrad – 50%, Žabari – 47.3%, Rekovac – 46.6%, Mali Crnić – 43.6%, Razanj – 42% of the population, Kučevo – 40%, Svrljig – 40%, Bolovac – 39%, Bela Palanka – 38.6%, Nova Crnja – 38%, Žitište – 37%, Kursumlija – 37%, Negotin – 36%, Bojnik – 35.5%, from Knjaževec, 35% of the population went to these 30 and some years, Knić – 35%, Petrovac – 35% and Golubac – 35%. So, from all these municipalities, the population emigrated; some went abroad, while others went to larger cities. At the same time, the number of inhabitants in those cities that were more developed has increased. Most of all in Novi Sad, 54% of Novi Sad had a population inflow over the past 36 years, then Novi Pazar – 46% of the population. There are also cities, municipalities that are not large, but which, by their development, have obviously attracted a part of the population. Stara Pazova, even by 65% increase in population, then from larger towns, Kragujevac, 34% increase in population, Belgrade – 33%, Nis – 32%. Of some smaller municipalities, Sremski Karlovci – 25%, Indji – 21%, Vrnjačka Banja – 21%. Vranje, regardless of what is not fully developed, belongs to so-called. The third group of municipalities developed, had a 21% population growth, as everyone around them was still in a worse position and emigrated towards Vranje. Smederevo – 20% population growth, Užice – 19.5%, Caves – 19.3%, Beocina – 18.8%, Čačak – 18.7%, Pančevo – 13.5%, Kraljevo – 13%, Shabac – 12% and Kruševac – 9%. It exhausts a list of cities that have increased population in the last 36 years. In addition to leaving the population from less developed municipalities and regions, due to insufficient levels of development, this is all manifested in a large pay gap, in the average salaries in these municipalities. The profit range, currently among the most developed municipalities, according to the latest data this year is Novi Belgrade, where the average salary was between January and April this year 48,700 dinars net, compared to the municipality that has the least average salary, Bela Palanko, with 12,451 dinar net salary, is even 4:1. These are the reasons why the population from these poor municipalities and regions is leaving. But in time, it is also a national problem, because if the empty territory of eastern Serbia, southern Serbia and other territories where there is a smaller degree of development, we have a problem in how to preserve the country's national sovereignty at all if we do not have a population. This is why it is the last time through this law to allow far more fair distribution and investments related to economic development, i.e. to help those regions that are at risk, as well as municipalities within the region. It is a policy, a regional policy of the European Union. The example, from the EU structural funds, in this current budget, relating to the period from 2007 to 2013, will be allocated 231 billion euros for undeveloped regions and only 49 billion euros for developed ones. So the ratio is almost 5-1. More money is allocated to undeveloped regions. In the EU, these are mainly regions in Central and Eastern Europe, Spain, Greece, although there are some parts of the UK. As for other countries that I would say, in this decade, have passed such and similar laws, I would mention that Finland passed similar legislation in 2003, the Czech Republic in 2000, Latvia – 2002, Slovenia – 1997, but changed it in 2005, when it adopted the latest version, Bulgaria – 2004, Slovakia – 2000, and then changed it to amendments in 2008, Poland – 1999, Hungary – 1996. A year. So almost all the countries that have joined the EU have passed these laws, because today the EU is also a country of the region, given that there are no borders between the national states of the European Union, economic co-operation is increasingly taking place not among the national states, but directly between the regions. In this way, regions have the opportunity to meet the specific needs of the population living in them, which are different from the region to the region and do not have to have anything to do with what the needs of the national state are in general. That is how this cooperation is intensified. As far as the structure of this law is concerned, we have given basic definitions to which we regulate the law, and one of the basic definitions is the definition of the region, given that it is the law on regional development. The region is defined as a statistical functional territorial continent, consisting of one or more areas, and is established for the purposes of planning and implementing regional development policy, in accordance with the nomenclature of statistical territorial units. It is, in particular, the nomenclature of statistical territorial units according to the classification of the European Statistical Office, etc. Eurostat, according to which there are three levels to define the region. The first level is Nalc 1, these are areas where at least three million people live, and for the purposes of this law, the whole of Serbia is this basic region, the level of Nalc 1. Also, very important, I would say, the most important continent for regional development planning is the Nalc 2-level regions of European statistics; they have a minimum population of 800,000, and a maximum of three million people, according to the European classification, while there is an even lower level, that is defined as an area in our law, which is the territorial continents that have between 150,000 and 800,000 inhabitants. It is at these levels that, on the one hand, development planning is being carried out, and, on the other hand, implementation is being carried out, i.e. the implementation of regional development policy. Starting with this definition, for the purpose of encouraging regional development, we have laid down by law, namely to determine the following regions in Serbia, seven of them: the Region of Vojvodina, the Belgrade region, the Western region, the Eastern region, the Central region, the South region and the Kosovo Region and the Metohija. I note once again that the regions defined by the law are statistical regions, have no legal subjectivity, or are administrative regions. This law defines only statistical regions. The very statistical regionalisation, based on this law, will be adopted by the Government, on a proposal from the Republic Statistics Institute, and after obtaining an opinion, i.e. the consent of European statistics, or Eurostat. We did not go into these details here, given that we need the consent of European statistics. That's why we left it to be regulated by a sublegal act, but we have defined these seven regions as the basis for encouraging regional development. The authorities are, as I said, units within the region. Each region consists of several areas, and each area essentially includes more current districts. So we didn't want to go into the law at all to regulate Serbia's territorial organisation. The law is a law for itself, and it deals with other issues. We've come from that law and installed that premise into the basic postulates of this law. The law also lays down criteria for grading municipalities and regions according to the level of development. According to the European methodology, undeveloped regions are considered those whose gross domestic product per capita is below 75% of the national gross domestic product. So, below 75% of the average. Those who have more than 75% compared to the average national gross domestic product are considered relatively developed regions. It also introduces a classification of municipalities, i.e. local self-government units, according to the degree of development. Four groups of municipalities are defined by this law – those who have a degree of development above the republican average, those whose level of development is from 80% to 100% of the republican average, the third group is those whose level of development is between 60% and 80% of the republican average, while the fourth group of municipalities are those whose level of development is below 60% of the republican average. At the moment, there are 40 municipalities in Serbia, unfortunately, which fall within this most underdeveloped, fourth group of municipalities, below 60% of the republican average. The problem is that no system conditions have been put in place so far for greater and more organised assistance to these municipalities. This law regulates not only institutions to plan and finance regional development and help less developed municipalities, but also how to allocate funds in the coming years. In what way? Every year, you MPs are making a budget for next year. As part of that budget, we have, for example, allocated some funds for less developed areas. In particular, about 4.5 billion dinars were allocated to the most underdeveloped municipalities this year, with 2.5 billion dinars of cheap loans to encourage entrepreneurship, we are talking about loans granted through the Development Fund, for a period of seven years, with interest of 0.5% year-on-year and three years of starting periods, and two billion dinars have been allocated under the NIP for the 40 most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia. As of next year, if this law is passed, the system will be different. The government will determine the total amount of funds for regional development. Then, under this law, by 31 October each year, the level of development of each individual municipality, each of these seven regions, will be established according to the criteria given in the law. On this basis, this mass of funds will be allocated exclusively according to objective criteria, i.e. according to the degree of development. This means that the largest of these municipalities from the fourth group, four times more than those from another group of municipalities, while the most developed municipalities, essentially, unless they are implemented by a national project, will be based on themselves, because they can develop themselves. So, the government will help in the future only the second, third and fourth groups of municipalities, with the second group of municipalities, those whose level of development is from 80% to 100% of the republican average, being obliged to co-finance appropriate projects, and interest rates for loans to encourage employment and entrepreneurship will be slightly more than interest rates for less developed areas. In any case, when the mass of funds to promote regional development is determined, the distribution will depend exclusively on this region's development classification and the least developed areas, such as the EU example, will receive 4-5 times more funding than those which may also not be in excellent condition, but are still 2-3 spears above these most underdeveloped. As for the status of underdeveloped areas, those units of local self-government that have a demographic decline of more than 50% are included in those areas, and this law provides that local self-government units from KIM are also classified in highly underdeveloped areas and that they have this special incentive regime. As for the organisation of institutions and the functioning of incentives regulated by this law, I have already said there are three levels: national, regional and regional. At national level, the National Council for Regional Development is formed, as well as the National Agency for Regional Development. The Council creates a policy of regional development, the Agency implements a policy of regional development. Seven regional development agencies are also formed under the same structure, as well as seven regional councils. Councils at regional level also create a policy of regional development, and agencies implement. To explain what that actually means, I'm going to take advantage of the example. When this law is passed, the priorities for NIP projects will no longer be established by the Republic government, will be established by defining their priorities, I apologize, regional agencies and regional councils to define their priorities. If something is to be built in eastern Serbia, some traffic station, not to be asked by the Republic government, which is a traffic station, it will be decided by regional councils and regional agencies. Otherwise, the law stipulates that most of the regional agencies' boards and most of the members of the regional council are representatives of the local self-government of the region, thus ensuring decentralisation in planning, in defining priorities, and later in monitoring, or in implementing. So the advice will propose, define priorities, while the agencies will implement them. The Agency has, whether it is national, republican, or districtal, two directions of action provided for by this law. One course of action of the agency will be different infrastructure projects of regional, district or local character. The second level of action is to encourage employment and entrepreneurship, therefore, to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We do not foresee this law establishing those institutions that already exist. Some of the institutions I've already listed already exist. There's a district association. They have different names in different areas. Today there are 16 district associations. I'll let you know in which cities they all work. Some function more successfully, some less successful. According to the European Commission and its relevant institutions, the most successful regional development agency is currently the Regional Forest Development Agency, from Pomorava, based in Kragujevac. However, the regional agency for the development of Banat, Zrenjanin, the Regional Centre for the Development of the Zlatibor County, Užica, and the Regional Agency for the Development of the Raško and Moraviga County, in the Kingdom, also have very good estimates. At the same time, the four agencies have only met the conditions so far that they have both fields of action – to deal with and develop entrepreneurship and to be trained to propose and monitor the realisation of infrastructure projects. The remaining 12 district associations that exist today will have to, within six months of the entry into force of this law, transform and meet the criteria that this law and sublegal acts will define. It is the Regional Development Agency in Subotica, Novi Sad and Sombor, which is specific to its establishment by the government of time. Under the law, the government will no longer be able to own any district association, but will have to be local self-government. In other words, the district associations must be owned by those who are at the bar – local self-government, local chambers, regional chambers, local businesses. Therefore, this law also allows for a public private partnership when forming district associations. Also, we have regional agencies in Belgrade, Novi Pazar, Leskovac, Vranja, Sapac, Zajecar, Kruševec, Nis and Pozarevac. They have different names, but essentially, these are these district associations that are defined by law. The law provides for regional agencies to credentialise district agencies, i.e. associations. These seven regional agencies will perform, for a period of five years, the accreditation of district associations. How's she gonna do her credentials? Those district associations, which provide results, which benefit citizens, which also have the support of European pre-accession funds, precisely because they are efficient and carry out planned projects, will be accredited. Those who don't meet in work, in practice, these standards, will lose accreditation. This system is designed so that district associations, which can also be formed by public-private partnerships, are constantly motivated to compete with each other and achieve the best results, i.e. to carry out as many projects and employ as many people in concrete areas as possible. In the first two years alone, the accreditation of district associations will be carried out by the National Agency, and after the first two years, it is left to regional agencies and those in the coming period of the regional associations. The highest level for creating a regional development policy under this law will be the National Council for Regional Development. He'll have a president and 19 members. In addition to the minister in charge of regional development, there will be ministers in charge of finance, environment and spatial planning, infrastructure, state administration and local self-government, the National Investment Plan, the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, labour and social policy, as well as the KIM Minister, who will also be the representative of the KIM Region of the National Council. Also, members of this national council will be president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, as representative of the Vojvodina region, mayor of Belgrade, which will represent the Belgrade region, representatives of the regional councils of the Western, Eastern, Central and South regions, and then, the president of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, the national co-ordinator for co-ordinating the use of EU pre-accession funds. This council, by invitation, can also be attended by experts, experts in this area, without the right to vote. That would lead to a slow end to the interpretation of the law. The law should help to form the necessary institutions, which will be able to withdraw adequate funding for regional development, as well as for helping regions, areas and municipalities that are less developed. The financing of regional development will take place from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP budget, the city of Belgrade, the unit of local self-government. Of course, a very important source of funding will be pre-accession EU funds, because, in order to be able to use these funds more intensively, one of the preconditions is the adoption of such a law, then donations and other sources, in accordance with the law, including loans. As for the National Agency for Regional Development, it will be formed by an existing agency for small and medium-sized enterprises and from the existing sector of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development for the implementation of infrastructure projects. Currently, there is a Regional Development Sector in the Ministry of Economy, one of which deals with regional development policy, and another with implementation of infrastructure projects. It's not the place to implement infrastructure projects in the government, it's the agencies. As a result, the government's jobs will be abolished and will move to the National Agency for Regional Development, as will the Republic Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development and will essentially be transferred to this national agency. The agency will be formed, basically, by these two institutions, the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency and by the Sector for the Implementation of Infrastructure Projects at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The new agencies, which will be formed by this law, are these regional agencies, seven regional agencies, however, will be key to implementing regional development policies. Without them, the law wouldn't make sense. That's why we felt it was necessary, as in other countries, that there were regional agencies. These agencies will form the government, however, is the idea that they too, over time, become agencies that will have a joint public-private partnership, with respect to the current regional development agencies, i.e. areas and associations, as we have called them and defined them by this law. As it does, in Sombor, the state capital agency of the Republic government is formed and cannot remain, but will have to take over most local self-government, or partners from the locals, so in time, and regional agencies will have to have, as they do now, most members of the boards of directors from the unity of local self-government, and property will also have to meet that structure in the future. The ownership structure is not so important for the implementation of this law, it is important that the money is distributed according to the criteria defined by this law and according to the degree of development. In the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, we believe that the resources allocated to the development of less developed areas are not enough. If we count the municipalities of the third and fourth groups and add up all the budgets that are available this year, for example, it is below 100m euros. This is not enough and this cannot speed up regional development, i.e. it cannot accelerate the development of less developed areas. It must be a medium-term goal to allocate at least 2% of the Republic's annual budget to regional development, and then, within that mass of separate funds, four to five times more to the most underdeveloped municipalities and less developed regions. Only when we have such budget allocations, including additional funds from EU pre-accession funds, can we be sure that with words written in the Constitution, on the obligation of equal regional development, we will move to action, and that, even this law cannot confirm, is only a practice of law enforcement that can be confirmed. I must say, we've worked with great enthusiasm on this law. We know that he will help those who have been forgotten so far, neglected, to rise. We know there's going to be a lot of problems with his conduct. The biggest problem will not be financial resources, the biggest problem will be knowledge, which, unfortunately, is not the very ones who are least developed. That is why we have made such a structure, that in the beginning, until the least developed municipalities are raised on their feet, not only 100% of our funding for project implementation, but also project development, and that, in agreement with the representatives of the least developed local self-government and regions, we help to jointly set the right priorities. I expect that we will have great support in implementing the law from the European Union itself, because it is also in the interest of Serbia to create an economic structure that is approximate to the association it wants to enter, which is the EU. Thank you for your attention, and I hope we have the support to pass this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21705	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your explanations. Since the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, does not want a word, among the representatives, or presidents of the parliamentary groups, the order of which is the least, to the greatest, so first I give the word to Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21706	I think the Grimm and Anderson brothers can rest peacefully because they have a worthy successor in Serbia in the image of Mladjan Dinkic. After false promises for Fiat, for hundreds of thousands of cars from the Zastava factory, after false promises for free actions in the form of thousands of euros, a new sale of fog, a new smoke screen and a new colourful lie followed. This law represents a list of beautiful desires, something that is a restoration of socialist rhetoric, a cheap demagogue filled with hypocrisy, represents an amazing bureaucratic apparatus. Watch what it says here – National Council for Regional Development, National Agency for Regional Development, Regional National Council, Regional Development Agency, District Association, and then these unfortunate people, who don't even have the bread to eat, will seek accreditation from the district association. Who in their right mind believes this? What does that mean for those dead villages in Kursumlia, Gagena Han and all over Serbia, where there are no more electricity, no more water, no more people? Where's the money to make this list of good wishes come true? What are these naive and cheap fairy tales? What does this look like? Who's going to believe this? When are these people gonna get the money? They'll probably be promised before the election, because, of course, the hat on all of this is the Ministry and Minister. They will throw crumbs off the table, when the elections come, of course, provided they know who these people are going to vote for, for a party headed by a minister acting like Baron Minhausen. Let's be realistic, let's be honest. It all comes down to the story of money. Where's the money for what's promised here? There's not a story here, there's still an enormous bureaucracy. Well, it's better that the money provided for these great advices, agencies and associations, to give these unfortunate people some time to create, to open up some small factory, to create some basic conditions for the normal lives of people in Serbia, who should be citizens of Europe in the 21st century. That would be fair. Like this, it sounds nice – even regional development. Here, I think, should be a carbon, if he's in charge of developing underdeveloped areas, because, what does even development mean? The problem is those who have no elementary conditions for normal life, not areas that have already been developed. One more thing, when we talk about regional development, the prerequisite for this is that we have clearly defined regions. Serbia can and should, and it advocates, cannot state, region and regional states, but first, a new law on the territorial organisation of Serbia should be passed to determine what regions are, to determine what municipalities are, to change the map of municipalities and the map of the region. We have some villages "lost in space" that have the status of municipalities. We simply live on a matrix based on some of the past times. As I said to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, what do you want with the embassy in Addis Ababa? There are no Serbs, no Serbian citizens there, and, for example, in Malta or Dubai, you have several thousand people. So is this. Let's figure out what municipalities are, what regions are, to change the Constitution accordingly, and then talk about even development, but first let's talk about where the money comes from to help those who are really on the edge of civilization and on the edge of life, I repeat, a decent man, a citizen of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21707	Thank you. The word is Mr. Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21708	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I announce the SVM's position on the proposal for a law on regional development, let me say that I am very happy that there are currently only 48 laws in the assembly procedure. That means the assembly, though it wasn't, but right now, especially now, it's not a black hole. That is also said that the bill, which passed the government on June 4th, was found on the agenda in the National Assembly only a few days later. As for the rest of the agenda, of the eight points, we have five draft laws that arrived in the Assembly in May and July, we have two draft laws that arrived in March. This means that the government will have to speed up the work because it will not be able to follow the pace of the National Assembly. As for the proposal for a law on regional development, we are very happy that this bill was on the agenda and in the assembly procedure, but I must also say that perhaps a little too soon this bill arrived in the assembly procedure, because, before the agenda of this law, it was necessary to adopt other regulations, other laws, so that this law could be applied. On the other hand, regardless of the fact that this law has been prepared for two years, there are some mistakes in it, which suggests that it was written quite quickly and I don't understand why it couldn't wait a few more weeks so as not to make these mistakes. I'll talk about these mistakes a little later, so that the government, the amendments, can improve this bill. I can only doubt that the goal of putting this fast on the agenda of this bill was to show that in this battle, under the working name 'who is more for decentralisation and regionalization', whether G17 plus or DS, G17 plus won one battle; that's what he did. I congratulate President G17 on winning this battle. This is the first law that speaks of regionalization and that is before the MPs. Unfortunately, this is not a law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, unfortunately, is not a law on public property, these are not some other draft laws that may be important for Serbia's regionalisation and decentralisation, but the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has been responsible for drawing up this law. This law has been made and in a few days it will be, I'm sure, adopted in the National Assembly. When I was just talking about some mistakes and this law wouldn't be possible to apply as it should, I was thinking first of all about an article. 5 or 6. The proposal for a law on regional development, which says the areas made up of regions are determined by the government, on the proposal of the authority responsible for statistics affairs. The body also determines the units of local self-government that make up the areas. We know that at the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly there was a bill on official statistics. I know that Serbia has the Institute of Statistics and today, but before this law was passed, it was first necessary to adopt a proposal for a law on official statistics and only after that to discuss this law on regional development. As for other shortcomings, or errors, also one legal detail, which may affect the application of the regional development law, is found in Article 41. A bill of law, which speaks of district associations. This member says that district associations should be established in accordance with the Association Law. Serbia, unfortunately, has no law on associations, because it has repeatedly been withdrawn from the assembly procedure. Today we have a law that defines the area of work of the association in Serbia, which is completely anachron, was passed in 1982, still talks about working people, etc., about self-management, and it was only then to wait until the adoption of the law on associations, which is held at the session of this session, to discuss this law. As far as the importance of the regional development law is concerned, unfortunately, I have the impression that certain opposition parties are giving too much importance to this law. This law does not bring anything spectacular, nothing new to Serbia, especially nothing new to the AP Vojvodina. I agree that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 94, says Serbia takes care of balanced and sustainable regional development, in accordance with the law, and that the adoption of this law is necessary, that it should be passed, but this law cannot be called, even with the first step towards decentralisation and regionalisation. This law exclusively speaks of economic decentralisation and is, above all, important because of one fact, making it easier for statistical regions to access pre-accession EU funds. It is not a meaningless fact, it is very important for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, but it cannot be said that this law on regional development is the first step towards Serbia as a decentralised and regionalised state. Before we began the debate on this law, a decision had to be made, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia should have reconsidered the decision on administrative environments. Unfortunately, these administrative districts will also have significance in this law. The borders of the administrative districts were drawn 15 years ago, in a way contrary to sound logic. Mr Dinkic, I'm sure you know, because you're coming to Saint, and to Ad, and to Kanjiž, and it's very good that you're coming, that these municipalities belong to the North-Banat Management District, and that Kanjiza and Senta are located on the Butchvan side of Tisa, so they should not belong to the North-Banat Management District. The decision was made 15 years ago because, at that time, at a republican level, the law on the selection of MPs envisioned by the majority election system was in force. The following should have been achieved, to break down that electoral body belonging to national minorities, and that is why it was done in Vojvodina, in the north of Vojvodina, in Potis and Sandzak, in no other territory of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, these administrative districts, which are illogical, which are contrary to any healthy logic, have been maintained to this day. No law should be amended to change the borders of these administrative districts, it is changed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, but there seems to be no political will to change those borders. It is not a Hungarian question, and in Sandzak, it is not a Bosniak issue, it is a question of sound logic – whether Kanjiza is located in Bačka or in Banat. If Kanjiza is in Backo and Tisa hasn't changed its course, then the legal system should be in line with sound logic, because otherwise, what do we need the state for, what do we need the administrative environments for? The government hasn't considered that since 2000, it needs to be changed. Unfortunately, you, Mr Dinkic, directly transpose this system into this law on regional development. Thank God you didn't write that in the very text of the law, but you wrote it in the light of this law. On page 5 of the reasoning, it reads: "One or more areas are projected to form a region. The authorities will respect the existing division of the administrative districts and will not share the districts." This means that regions in the area will be formulated in a way contrary to sound logic and any economic and economic logic. On page 4, the reasoning reads: "The government will, on a proposal from the Republic Statistics Institute and in a scale with criteria regulated by EU standards, establish areas that make up these seven regions. We note that the Constitution, as well as the existing division of administrative districts, will be respected in the nearer determination of areas and regions, and the areas will be composed of one or more districts and regions from the area'. As for the EU standards mentioned, I do not believe that EU standards are to change river flows. I do not believe that EU standards are to define something directly contrary to sound economic logic. On the other hand, I suppose it is understood that the Constitution will be respected, it should not be written in the reasoning of the bill, but it is not good that it is written and that the Government obviously thinks that this division of administrative districts should be transferred to this second level, that this should be the basis for even regional development. This is not a good initial basis and I hope that the Ministry and Government will review these views that are written in the light of the law. We couldn't give the amendment to this, because this wasn't written in the bill itself, but in the explanation. I hope that this will be changed, in the same way that it has been amended in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chambers of Commerce. We are pleased to have reached agreement with the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group and with the Government of the Republic of Serbia that sound logic, economic logic is taken into account when it comes to regional chambers of commerce. Just a few weeks ago, when we passed that law, we were able to work together to have companies from the Kanjiž, Senta and Ada municipalities re-assembled in the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Subotica, and it was very well received. I think that's the path we need to continue, not the path that's drawn in the light of the bill's proposal. As for some other proposals to be made before the law on regional development was passed, this certainly includes the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. I know this law establishes statistical regions, not administrative regions, but, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the problem is that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly states that a new statute should be adopted by the end of 2008. I would have one question for you, Mr Dinkic, as Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why do we still not have in the assembly procedure a bill establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? Of course we are aware that neither the Statute nor the law can arrive on the agenda before the Government sets out a draft law on the powers of the Vojvodina, but we do not understand why it is awaiting this law on the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, which is the problem, why the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and why the National Assembly is being brought into a situation that it has to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for seven months now. When we talk about the aspect of economic decentralisation that needs to be passed by this law on regional development, then I must say that we believe that the Ministry and the Government have too many powers and that neither economic regionalisation nor decentralisation can be talked about when it is decided by the Government and the Ministry. I would ask Mr. Vice-President of the Government – how can we interpret Article 17 of this bill as proposing economic decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, otherwise, this member refers to regional development funding programmes, when it says here: "Programmes from the position of the 1st member, and projects to be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as other sources for the financial year, brings the government, on a proposal from the Ministry, in line with the National Plan and regional strategies"? What economic decentralisation is this when the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry, decides on what programmes will be financed from the Republic budget? Of course, we are pleased that in the same article, in St. 4 and 5, the city of Belgrade and the AP Vojvodina will ask for an opinion on the programme on the territory of Vojvodina, or the city of Belgrade, but it is only an optional opinion. We don't think that's in line with the principle of economic decentralisation. Another law was to be passed before we discuss the law on regional development, which is the law on public property. It was certainly necessary to change the situation that says that Serbia is the only country in Europe in which neither local self-government nor autonomous provinces have their own property. Unfortunately, neither municipalities, cities, or provinces can affect the economic development of their territories and the employment of their citizens, in such a way that they can have a higher degree of financial autonomy, have their own assets, that certain land can offer, e.g. certain investors. How is it possible that the Municipality of Sainta only gets 2.5% of the collected taxes back as a transfer, and the total gets back about 7% of the amount collected in the form of taxes on the territory of the municipality of the Senate? It is one example, but it is characteristic of the entire Republic of Serbia, all municipalities and all cities. Finally, I would like to look back, very briefly, on today's statement by the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. He says regionalisation will take place, the first stage by 2013, and the second stage by 2020. I don't know what we're going to do by 2013 or 2020. Secondly, the country's president says, "Regionisation is not a division of Serbia, but a division of wealth and the creation of opportunities for undeveloped parts of the country to develop evenly." So that's Robin Hood's principle. We should take from the rich and give to the poor. We agree, but should not be taken from the rich, a climate should be created in which all parts of the Republic of Serbia can develop. The Constitution should also be respected in connection with the Vojvodina, not to fight with every rebalancing to get Vojvodina 7%. Of course, the south of Serbia, central Serbia, eastern and western Serbia, Sandzak, the forest should develop and we should achieve as balanced regional development as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21709	Thank you. Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21710	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has major problems today, it has had them in previous years -- the total Saturday of the Serbian economy, great unemployment, many bankruptcy companies, 68,000 companies blocked. Every time there's such a big crisis, it comes out with some new package, new measures and new promises. What is now happening in Parliament, regionalisation, is pure distraction and public and individual environments across Serbia that will come for a better time, that some problems will be solved. Before that, there were a number of other promises and none were fulfilled. I find it very strange that the idea of regionalisation in Parliament is the minister of economy and regional development, the minister who has been running Serbia's regional development for the third year, who said in his statement that some municipalities are underdeveloped, so Montenegro and many others across Serbia say. What were you doing, Mr. Minister, for three years? Why are these municipalities so underdeveloped? Why are certain environments empty? Why is there no resident in the municipality of Kursumli, in 17 villages? Why does unemployment grow every day? Now we're going to solve all this by regionalising, and now the EU is going to get rid of the bag, the money's coming. Well, that's what we heard in the election campaign. Mr. Minister, all your projects are a failure, all your projects here have failed. Let's start with the action, move on to Fiat, a flat regional development, the launch of eastern Serbia -- one big scam, the Stara Planina, the ski resorts, the Književec, the municipalities move, Svrlig starts. People, poor, voted, gave you trust, and where will they go now? What are they gonna do now? How do these open-air companies of yours operate? I can't understand the minister, although he was named the best finance minister in the world, I haven't heard of that title, but I'm glad that one of our men got it, because I expected him to do something, but that best finance minister took the economy, privatisation, tourism, NIP, and then regional development. You've built regional centres across Serbia, you've made a great administration. What did that regional center in Kragujevac do? What are his results? What have these regional centres done throughout Serbia? Nothing, that's where you hired your party sympathies, your friends, you developed a party infrastructure over the budget, and that's already been seen, that's what people's offices used to do. Now you're going back to some story about the regions. Minister of Business, do you know that no company works in certain cities? Can you solve, after eight years, the question of Bor, Majdanpek? Can you solve the question of the electronic industry? What about Magnochroma? What about the "Vagons"? What about Trieste, the First Five-year-old? What about Viscoss? What about Cancer? What companies do you do in Belgrade? What does Belgrade live on? Why did you build a regional center here and call it a center, and you're ashamed to say – Woodland, Pomoravalje? Why did you do that? Because half of the forest and the main forest resources have been attached to the city of Belgrade? Belgrade has reached Topola, bordering with Topola. You took the Kopova, you took the Tamnava, you took everything around Belgrade; the Lazarjevac is cramping in trouble, and the Obrenovac is not talking. Problem with the problem, people can't breathe, they're sick, and it's all going in the register of the city of Belgrade. Now the gas plant, which was agreed to run around Nis, will launch that region of eastern Serbia and start the south, as I read, will go to Batajnica, so Belgrade can take that too. What economy, Mr. Minister, is working in Belgrade? What do two and a half million people live on? Why don't you develop it after all this money and all these stories? Thirty-three percent of Belgrade today has no sewers. It's a shame. One bridge can't be built for 20 years. You, Mr. Minister, for nine years hold the financing of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia, hold the NIP, hold everything, everything where there is money, that's with you. You didn't do anything. There's been a privatisation. The principal just ran away. She's gone. Can we find her to file some bills? What about the Mobtel funds, a billion and 600 million? We once said, Mr. Minister, that it would make corridors, and not even a meter is done. The funds are gone. You don't have a budget charge today. You sold everything that could be sold in Serbia and now that Serbia is poor, naked and barefoot, when it is no longer for its survival, we will now promise it a colorful lie, and these are regions. It will trigger Serbia. What's he gonna get? What kind of money is that? Do you know, Mr. Minister, that this year you've been in charge of Serbia, for the past few months, for four billion euros? Collect carefully the loans that have been ratified, and the one of the three billion that has not been ratified anywhere, where no one knows how these funds will be spent, to protect, to God, the stability of the dinars. We have repeatedly asked a question in this House – how is it possible for someone to give a loan without ratification in parliament, without a parliamentary debate? There's nothing in this regionalization law that's been laid down. You'll do it all on the government. Here you've just listed that we'll get one blessing, that everyone will live better, and that won't be anything. In Belgrade's capital, 35% of the cars are macadam, no asphalt. What about Sheep, Borch, Kaludier? What about suburban settlements? What about the Barajo municipality and the others? Lives like the Middle Ages. There's a slush on the street. It's nowhere to be found. You arrange what you are interested in doing throughout Serbia, spending the budget and the funds received from privatisation. What about decentralisation of power? Why don't the local authorities have any authority? You take away all their means for them, for those who have done good, and you do not return what they should have received, and you take back to them, and there is nothing. Take one Koseric, the other day you were all campaigning there. Two billion are being poured into the republican budget from Koseric, and it returns only about two and something to three percent of the municipality itself, which is failing without talking about other municipalities, the Tovarish, the Žitište, Kursumlia, Prokuplje, etc. Therefore, no factory in Serbia is stable. The economy isn't working. There's no way anything in Serbia will work while you're here. See for yourself, Lola Ribar, take the Thunder, take the Military Industry, First Spark Baritch, take the IMT, there's no way anything works. The Kragujevac used to have thousands of workers, remember the figure of 17. 500 workers, today we are talking about 500 employees in Fiat, and you said – 200,000 "full" this year. How much have you thrown into the market so far, mounted, disintegrated, how much is the participation of Serbian co-operatives in a vehicle being manufactured today? He's gone. How much does this cost Serbia, and why does Serbia give subsidies and push money to the Italian firm, and our businessmen fail? You see that you have every day strikes, problems that are unseen. People cut off their finger in protest, strike hunger. It never was. Why don't you show up at those companies? Now you've come to talk to us here. Do you remember when you presented the actions to the public, all 1,000 euros each? What happened to that project, Mr. Minister? What happened to six billion from the EU? What happened to the corridors? How many years did you do the corridor, here, second year of power? The second is the construction season, one is over, and the other is in half; annual vacations, there goes this calendar year. How much will you do? You bury something small, you start working, there's no money, Mr. Minister. They shut down a concession that was the biggest and best investment for Serbia. You said you were going to make it out of budget funds. Where are your budgets? Who's gonna fill your budget when your economy doesn't work? What company is the full budget today? Where are your cities that you've been telling us are in great development, in great euphoria, the fever is complete? There comes Mercedes, Folkswagen, Fiat, Boing, who hasn't arrived. These cities, now that the funds need to be reduced, gone, no longer mentioned, the cities you've been talking about here are fairy tales, they're all working. Now that these transfer funds are being rejected, they are in more underdeveloped municipalities, Mr. Minister, gone. What are the losses? What's the loss of the Old Mountain ski resort? Why didn't you finish Divcibar? What happened to the other centers? What happened to Palic? How much money did you invest? How many people got a job, what about Golia? How much money was invested? Why does everything matter? All the resistors you took in the government are a disaster for Serbia. Let's take the sport, it's completely destroyed. Alliances don't exist, clubs don't exist. Where are our athletes? They're gone. What about the young man? You'll give them a white Schengen now. You promise to go to Europe? Why don't they stay here? Where are these announcement jobs? Which companies did you open to hire thousands of young people? List one of the companies you've built. The other day, I look at the noise and shame, it's in the morning program of company presentations, investment. You've invested in the Chachak million and 200,000 dinars and the man bought a copy machine and hired his nephew to copy. You're showing this five-minute item in all the journals, and only A 4 can copy. It's a disgrace for Serbia, really, a disgrace. Not to talk about health care. Where's your health care, Mr. Minister? Did you read in the paper the other day that in your health care, which you hold for five terms, you brought in a man who was ill, a junkie, and you took him into the nervous ward, that a man took a fire extinguisher and killed a patient; he started killing in order, smashing his head. That's right. There sits the directors, one cheater who's made a living in health, scattered all the doctors who didn't want to sign a membership card, and they all went away, stayed on top of the best camera, a student who spent 16 years studying and perpetuating that degree, and now sits around all day and throws MPs when they speak. A patient died in a tonsil operation, Mr. Minister, a professor of economics school in Chačka. The wrong leg, the wrong knee. Recently, patients with hip surgery brought him in, dropped him off, and broke his hip again, and returned him to surgery. It's a misery and an accident. Therefore, Mr. Minister, you are, unfortunately, a major pest to this government. You take a long time and you tell us about the economy, and you never enter a factory, you never spend a day in a company, you know what it means to do, take a salary and make a income for someone. All we're saying is, it's a waste of time, the dizziness of Serbia, and you and your regional centres will hire some of your same-minded people. Big word - National Agency, Regional Agency. When you say national, like that national infrastructure council. How many miles of roads have you made, Mr. Minister, through the National Infrastructure Council? How many corridors have you done so far, here, is the second construction season? Not a mile. You didn't turn him in for use. So you turned off what others did. You have been holding back in this House for a year an investment in gasification and the arrival of pipelines, the construction of a gas power plant and the completion of the "Banatski dvor" warehouse. A lot of damage, a lot of accidents you've done to this Serbia and now you're dating a new project, with a new concept, and we all know in advance that none of this will happen, because you don't have the strength, you don't know that, first of all. We've recently heard stories here, fairy tales, I haven't been to Parliament that day, Secretary of Defense. It's all in your weeds. It's all in your two-foot nets. We haven't seen a soldier. We asked where the soldiers were, that our children were photographed in person. You've ruined everything. Did you see a live soldier anywhere, touch him, take a picture with him? He's gone. All barracks are empty and empty. The little pain and the misfortune that was in the barracks, the rest of the nettles and the weeds, the roofs burn, the facades go down, everything falls apart. It's property taken from the local government. What do we do with her today? You can't bring her back because she's too expensive to buy back. You're being recycled, you're talking about recycling the other day, you took pictures of yourself out there recycling the South. That's good, that's positive, but they're recycling your tanks in the middle of the barracks, and nobody noticed. Four pieces were recycled without anyone finding a video. You've got people breaking in with the president with bombs in your hands. What kind of government are you? What's this about? And you spend so much money! Organize a little, Mr. Minister. This was to have some debates, to discuss this rather than come directly to parliament, without committees, without any opinions, without any consultation with political parties. This will mean something to Serbia, but in a negative sense. A new administration will be hired, new funds will be taken away, and none of that will be done. What about private property, whose owners exist today? It's all sold, destroyed and spent. It's all spent. Where are the funds from "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" from the third operator? What happened to the Schlaff you brought here to keep the casinos? They find comfort in gambling. The boss lived here, your great friend, and sponsor, and donor. You see for yourself – you have made Serbia miserable and it will take dozens of years for all these accidents to be corrected. If you could have done something with even regional development, you would have done it in the last three years. Reduce your appetites a little bit. You took everything, you grabbed it. The whole government is with you. I don't know what other ministers do, what do they do? What does the president of Serbia do, what does he do? It's all yours, Mr. Minister, you let us know when the power will pick up. I don't know what Skundric's doing. You're saying the power won't pick up, you say the loans are coming. You were recently in America. You came and said, "The corridors are going to work, the money is secure, the funds are secure." Nothing's going on. Every year's vacation, comes autumn, goes another year, another construction season, into nothing. Gentlemen People's MPs, as long as we sit here and listen to promises, beautiful stories, and that everyone, when a marketing agency jumps at him, can say something – this will be a hit? Come out and say it. Here, now you're preparing a change in the Constitution, you're being held back by a lot of MPs, you need to cut them down, expand a little government, stay more funds for the government, and you don't deal with what you have to do. Serbia is starving. He doesn't have the money to pay for the electricity. The poor are getting more and more every day. Agriculture destroyed, the village completely destroyed, destroyed. There's nowhere to sell. Your brilliant idea of unilaterally respecting the agreement with the EU has shown results, now we see where we are, what we are and who we are. Therefore, this is another fairy tale, that the people, and the new fairy tale, is the change of the Constitution, the reduction of the number of MPs, etc. Why don't you get in the way? You promised here the gentlemen of the Duke's Statute of Vojvodina. You can't... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... You want to tell Serbia – here you are, and you are regional centres. Regional, but no dinars, no nothing. Serbia will be in trouble, in disaster, in major problems, with even more massive and larger...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21711	Mr. Dinkic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21712	To answer these two questions Mr. Balint Pastor and this last one. First, to answer the questions that Balint Pastor asked. He asked about the definition of administrative districts. As you know, it's not the Ministry of Economy's jurisdiction, it's the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. When we were preparing this law, when we defined the areas, we couldn't help but start from the existing administrative districts. However, as Mr. Pastor said, it is possible to change it, even by a legal act. I propose to Mr. Pastor that in the coming days, when Minister Markovic interprets the law on associations, he discusses this issue concerning Kanjiza. As we have found a solution to the chambers of commerce, I believe it is possible to find this solution as well. Indeed, it is not up to this law, but if the Regulation on the definition of administrative districts is amended, it is automatically understood – and statistical areas, in accordance with this law. As for the issue relating to Article 17, I think it is about misunderstanding, because the question is asked – why is the government making a decision on funding from the RS budget in the region's funding programme? Because it's about budgets, about the Republic of Serbia's budget. The government, under the Law on the Budget System, must make a decision, but the proposal is made by those sitting in the regional council. The regional strategy is the basis for a project to be proposed, and the government only adopts it, given that it is financing it. In the Vojvodina case, an AP opinion is required, because this is about funding from republican funds. Of course, when the province funds from its own resources, it does not ask the Republic for an opinion, but invests itself in its own project. The same goes for the city of Belgrade. Of course there's an asymmetry here. Asymmetry stems, unfortunately, from the fact that there is currently only one active administrative region in Serbia, which is Vojvodina. When that changes one day and the concept of administrative regionalisation is established, then this will be adjusted in law itself. This way, we started with the existing organisation of territorialization of Serbia and did not want to interfere with the jurisdiction defined by another law, or the Constitution. As for Mr Balint Pastor's questions regarding the deadline for the adoption of the Statute of Vojvodina and the law on the transfer of jurisdiction, according to my findings, and I am not directly involved in it, however, is my colleague Kalanovic, the job is technically completed. I now expect that this will be adopted in the government in the coming period and proposed to the Assembly. As far as I know, there is no point that is not in accordance with the Law on the Transfer of Jurisdiction and the Statute of the Region. In that sense, I expect it to be adopted in the next period. As for the other MP's comments, I don't know why you're getting so upset. Why am I making you so nervous, not just you, there are other MPs here? I'll tell you a few facts. I know I'm talking about facts. You have your own way of talking, I won't get into it. The facts are the following – there were problems in Serbia, these problems are smaller or bigger. The difference is whether some problems are solved or not. All the problems can't be solved at once, but I can say, on the subject you've mentioned now, the answers to your questions. I can say that I'm doing everything I can to try to solve those problems that are in the power of the Ministry of Economy and never give up on those solutions. As for Fiat and Kragujevac investments, unlike the previous 15 years, when the state of Serbia only subsidized production, and, essentially, Kragujevac did not work and produced a very small amount of products, for the first time we make a car manufactured in Kragujevac. The profit may not be too large, it is 722 euros per full, however, 722 euros is better than loss. When the results of the work began in mid-April, when the installation of the "punta" in Kragujevac began, 1,700 cars were sold during the month and a half, respectively. Capacity is now increasing, along with investments that we and the Italians took in Lakirnica, and the capacity will soon be increased to 3,000 cars per month. With a capacity of 3,000 cars a month, Kragujevac will, after 20 or 15 years, be removed from the list of subsidies from the economy ministry. In this month, June, we reduced by 25 million dinars of subsidies that have been paid to the Kragujevac factory for years, and our goal is to ensure that complete production in Kragujevac is achieved on the basis of the car sales revenues charged. It'll be the first time in 15 years. How many cars will be produced this year? See for yourself, capacity is increasing slightly. As of this month, the number should be close to 3,000 cars a month. Given the great demand that exists, given that exports to Republika Srpska have been agreed, I expect that the contract we made around the "punta" will be exceeded and that this year will be twice as manufactured cars as in the last year, all models – from the "flag 10" to the others. Is that 200,000 cars? It's not. Is that twice as much as last year? Yes, it is. Is this some kind of effort that's being shown and does some people, even now, live from their work there? That's right. Right now, about 800 to 900 people are working on the full. It's not thousands of people, but that 900 lives from work and that number will increase from month to month. As far as Bora is concerned, Bor currently has no subsidy and is self-sustaining from his work. The state is not helping Bor subsidies, because we helped them with the money for certain investments, to make them more efficient, and we intend to help them in the next period to buy new mining equipment, as well as build a new smelter. Why? Because the work of the Borski Basen depends to a good extent on the development of the entire eastern Serbia and because it is a product that is profitable and that is why we want to support it. Bor is working right now. What you've noticed is that there are a lot of factories that are in trouble. However, they are not all in such problems as you say, although I do not underestimate them. It is true that there are over 60,000 blocked companies, of which only 20,000 companies. Of those 20,000 companies, 16,000 have been blocked for over two years. These aren't companies that are blocked today, some of them were blocked during your time as Minister of Government. In other words, we're now going to pass a bankruptcy law, which all the companies that have been in the blockade for more than two years, simply delete and become directly bankrupt, because we have a fake picture of the blockades. There are these str's that go into blockade, start new firms and keep working, so the number itself is big, essentially, the problem exists, but it's not what you're saying. We did what was possible to improve the liquidity of the economy, through the government's programme of measures, subsidized loans. About 400m euros were granted to businesses at low interest in three months. Yesterday, the Central Bank shot down the reference interest to 13%, so now the dinar loans, after a long time, will be single-digit for those seeking liquidity loans, will be 9.5%, since they are related to the central bank's reference rate. There are problems in the car building, as you said, and thank you for asking that question, because that's where we're going to try to do what's possible to help the domestic car construction industry. We had a meeting this morning with "The Railway", with the Ministry of Infrastructure and representatives of all the factories that produce cars in Serbia – from Kraljeva, Nis, Subotica, Smederjevska Palanka and Smedereva. We will create a special programme, which the government will adopt by the end of this month, that the Serbian railway is ordering these and next year's wagons from Serbian companies. It is a way for those who are currently in trouble to solve problems, and it is the King in trouble, because they have been cancelled from France, and Nis too, because by August they only have work to do. The best one is Gosa, which is an example of one of the better privatisations in Serbia, which now have the capacity and production and plasma provided; ten million have so far been invested by the Slovaks in modernising the factory. However, we will help everyone through a special program to stimulate car construction, to provide work for workers, because these are intensive factories, employ a lot of people, the Iron Factory in Smederev – 1,500 people, in the King 900 people are working to get a job and to buy cars from the domestic industry. Unlike the period when "The Railway" was under your authority, Mr. Ilic, and when she exclusively bought transportation from abroad, you can talk to me about patriotism, but you've never made any effort to get local people in the car building to get a job. Maybe what we're going to do right now isn't maximum, but we're trying, and we're going to help these people have a secure job in the next period, even one factory that hasn't been working for a few months, which is "Brothership" in Subotica, this way we try to raise, as we did, after all, IMT, IMR, which until recently couldn't sell their tractors. With the government's programme of subsidising tractors, 2,000 of the invoices have already been built and sold by the first 200 pieces of tractors. In this crisis, nothing is easy, but we will try to help all those who have perspective. If someone has no perspective, such as, for example, the textile combination 'Raška', I will be fully open, from Novi Pazar, which has not worked for 10 years, there are two solutions – if the company does not work for 10 years, it has nothing to do with the crisis, then it will either be transferred to the municipality if it wants to, and then they will have that property and decide what to do with it, or they will have to go bankrupt. There are no dilemmas. We offered the municipality of Novi Pazar this combination. I think we need to separate the problems that occurred 15 years ago, like, say, that combination "Raška" from those problems that have been embodies with the consequences of the global crisis. Because this thing with Gossa isn't related to any past, they doubled the amount last year, but now they have, unfortunately, a reduced offer due to the crisis. Foreign railways buy less cars, and then it is a solution, when foreign railways have focused on buying smaller cars, that the Serbian railway, which requires cars, both in freight and in passenger traffic, is being remonted, either by repairing, or by purchasing new wagons, from domestic companies. We will do a similar program for parts of the textile industry, such as Jumko in Vranj, to establish direct co-operation, in the government programme, with our military and police, to sew uniforms for the military and police in Vranj, but at some prices that are appropriate. So to hire people; there can't be profit, but to make people a job. These are the unconventional measures the government is taking, and will take, but help to mitigate the effects of the crisis. Credits, globally, for liquidity, and in certain sectors of industry, such as "punto", such as tractors, such as wagons and parts of this textile industry for the purpose of production, we will go with targeted support. We'll also support the dedicated industry now. Special attention deserves your thesis on corridors. You're saying I've been in charge of the financial system for years. It is true that I was in charge from 2000 to 2006, both for monetary and fiscal policy, and I am proud of the results that I achieved then – from the budget surplus to the stable dinar. When you mentioned corridors, I can ask you, unfortunately, now I know a lot more than I knew at the time when I was the finance minister on road construction, why sometimes, even if you don't ask yourself, what did you do about national projects? No single project, none left in the government's inheritance. You'll see, when tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in three years, in eight years, some new government, how good it will come from the previous government. I can tell you about your area, because now we're all working together to build Corridor 10, today there is no final project for Corridor 10, regardless of the first 200m euros foreseen in the 2006 NIP budget. The money was provided for the Mobtel sale, like you said, but there were no projects. You can't make way if you have money, and you don't have a project. It's a reverse procedure, and I learned it by doing it at the National Infrastructure Council. First, an idea project has to be created, then a major project, then an expropriation project, so when the country goes out, then a tender is announced, then the road is built. Now, unfortunately, we have twice delayed the realisation of the contract with the World Bank for the construction of Corridor 10 in southern Serbia, on the first path we want to start, which is Dimitrovgrad, because, believe it or not, there is no project of that part of the road of eight kilometers. It's not a road of hundreds of miles, there's no project for the first eight kilometers. None of it was left for inheritance. When the government came, we gave orders to the projected institutions to do these projects, not to mention that no expropriation was completed and that it was now all done in walking, that the first tender, finally, for the southern part of Corridor 10, from the World Bank's loan, would be published in the "Fincial Times" list by the end of this month and that it would then go, in turn, tenders for the rest of the shares. Believe me, daily, and Minister Mrkonjic, Prime Minister Cvetkovic, I, Verica Kalanovic, are pursuing these road institutes, which are to be designed, to finish the job. I don't understand what they were doing from 2003 to 2006, when you were talking about building Corridor 10, when, as finance minister, I provided that money. For what money? You can't use money if you don't have a project. The fact is, you may be a good talker, but you weren't doing that job. You left the 38 billion-long "The Way of Serbia", which we now have to pay back, and this assembly has given, just today, the consent that 185m euros, based on the debts made during the time you were in charge of this company, are coming back. I don't know what it's made of, because no national corridor has. When you mention the concession, you wanted to get this country into having to pay the concessionaire out of the budget, because the project was such that it couldn't be achieved through the concession. It wasn't fair for any construction firm to offer her a concession and for the part that's invaluable. What was the concessionaire's bill? Let's get into that contract with the government, which you've concluded, and then, when it's been a year, as it has happened, we're looking for an amendment to the contract, to change the contract, so instead of the concessionaire paying for everything and building a highway, he's asking for it to be paid out of the budget. You probably knew it was an idea from the very beginning. Now the government has decided to make the highway from Horgos to Novi Sad exclusively its own funds, from the budget. We split it all into smaller lotions, introduced so-called. A set of criteria. What are the fiddic criteria? While you were a minister, you weren't interested in what kind of contracts travel companies with the state made. They weren't obliged to respect the deadlines, if they were late, they didn't pay for the penalty. On the contrary, in the end, the state remained in debt, with all the interest. Now it's all completely changed. Now all contracts under international FIDIC criteria, which means that if someone is late with a certain deadline, a serious pen has to pay the state; if they do not pay the penalty, another performer is introduced instead of him, the one who was second-ranked in the tender. It's the only way to seriously build roads. We're also late as a state, and I'd say, and as a government, because we haven't inherited any single project. We're not late for money. It is a great error, I say openly, that no roads are being built in Serbia because there is not enough money. No roads are being built because so far it has been a desperate organization in preparation and road construction. Our builders are good, when you pay them, build a road, however, prepare a project, exploit the country and get there to start building, for the builders to get a job, that's what the problem is in Serbia. It is a problem that I am personally nervous about, I must confess to you, but this thing will be resolved and we want to build Corridor 10, all the straight directions to Corridor 10, except for those in the enemas, will be completed by the end of the term. As far as the road to Montenegro is concerned, of course it is important and no one has ever slowed down the importance of that road, but it was obviously unrealistic to expect that anyone, just because it is worth the economic construction of the highway from Belgrade to Ljiga, would take the concession for it. That's why the concessionist asked, precisely because it's an invaluable share of the League and beyond, to finance it from the budget. That's why the contract was broken, because the state didn't want to finance from the budget something someone else would charge through toll. Now that principle has changed, it will be built next year, if these projects are finished, because I can no longer trust these people who are doing the projecting. If they do projects, we will secure in the budget the money to build the first section of the road to Cačka, i.e. Montenegro. We'll build that highway out of our own resources. The state will issue a special bond, for which business banks will be stimulated to buy it under favourable conditions. It will be a three-year bond, with interest of up to 8.5% a year, in dinars. If the dinar bond purchased by business banks, and the central bank exempts them from the mandatory reserve, we will thus ensure that the construction of the highway from Belgrade to Cačka is financed, and is now being speeded up to complete the projects for the highway. So for two years you've talked about Corridor 10, I'm talking about the fourth, sixth year, that period and this concession, and no project has been completed. People don't know the first project has to be completed to build a highway. That's the way it is. Unfortunately, I didn't know it either, nor did some other people in the government, because it's not a financial job, it's a building business. Now, unfortunately, we had to learn how to build a highway, which is all the stages in building some time. It's not complicated, but it must be well organized. As for Belgrade, well, ask yourself how the salaries in Belgrade would be the largest in Serbia if we didn't do anything? It's demagogy. Of course, in all parts of Belgrade, it is not a great situation, I agree with you, but where it is fortunate that other parts of Serbia work and that they are employed as they are now in Belgrade, otherwise the salary would not be four times higher in Belgrade than in other parts of Serbia. I answered these questions because I didn't last time, because I had a meeting in Republika Srpska. As for your remark that this law quickly arrived in the process, I must tell you that the public debate on this law lasted over three months, it began in November of last year. In November of last year, we completed the draft. We held a public debate in Kragujevac, Zajecar, Užica, Nis, Novi Sad, so in Serbia's largest cities, we also talked to the professional public, so you probably didn't follow that job. There's one thing you're right about, Mr. Ilic. There's one thing I promised that I didn't keep, it's free action. You're absolutely right. Whenever you're right, I'll tell you that you're right, no matter who you are, but I want to tell you that I'm someone who doesn't give up on goals. The law we passed a year and a half ago couldn't be realised in that form because of this global crisis. I'm not guilty, no matter what you blame me in front of the citizens, that the stock prices on all the stock markets in the world have fallen, and you know it well. You know very well that the stock prices of the world's largest companies are much less valuable than today, but I will supplement that law and this assembly will, I'm convinced, adopt it by the end of this year. The citizens will get action. Will they be worth as much as they'd be worth if it wasn't for the crisis? If they sell those stocks right away, it won't be worth it, I'll make it clear that they're not worth it, but it'll be worth more if they're guarded and if it's over. I advise you not to be nervous. Always, each of us, of you, can get a chance to do some work on behalf of the citizens. Citizens at the end of the grade and what you've been saying and what you've been doing. That's how they'll appreciate it with me; for all the projects I've started with my associates, with the government, which I don't meet, of course I'll be punished by the citizens in the election. I'm not afraid of it at all. It's not about being in power, it's about not lying, it's about having a moral, it's about being human, and when you're human, then you get less upset and then you're healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21713	Mr. Ilichu, you have the right to reply within three minutes. It's my only chance to give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21714	I also have additional time for our group, which I will use to give certain answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21715	You can't, Mr. Ilich. At this point, as the heads of the parliamentary groups speak, you can only be within these three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21716	It's a little awkward for me to say to the Minister right now – don't lie, but what I'm going to say is that you, Mr. Minister, don't know anything. I can tell him that. How could it be... .
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21717	Mr. Ilich, I ask you to pay our respects to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21718	There's a very heavy charge here. How can an international concession tender be opened without a project documentation? Is that you, genius, the biggest finance expert, you know? To report to the world's largest firms and the tender has 22,000 pages, how can it be without documentation? Are you going to tell me, I'm very interested, you're an expert on everything, so I see that you're also a great expert in the NIP? How can a Vinci, a Buick just call in if there's no paperwork? You don't know, firstly, which projects exist – idea projects, general project, project implementation. Performance projects are done when you get a job. So there's no performer, which is the obligation of one who performs the work to do it, and the review committee to accept it. The second thing, projects for certain routes don't exist because you've skipped a hundred times to pay for project documentation and expropriation. I've given an advance as minister for what you're taking down, according to the Macedonian border, but no agreement has been reached with the Albanians, it went to court because we didn't have the money to expropriate, and you didn't provide it this year either. The road company has losses, and that's true, but you know well that, when the Directorate, as a budgetary user, is registered to a public company, you made a promise in the Serbian Parliament that within three months you would cover the loss of 10.2 billion. You lied, you didn't do it until today. That's what you've been paying interest on for six years, Mr. Minister. You remember when the IMF said we had reinvested and the contract would break, that five billion were rejected. You came to the government and asked that five billion works be refused from the passengers, so that not all ministries would be shared, which the government accepted, and in the next financial year you would return it to the budget and you planned to return those five billion. You lied. It hasn't been returned to this day. You gave a warrant from the NIP and accepted that it was working; there was no money in the NIP, six billion, you told the Director of the Road not to be invoiced, because the tolls had to pay the VAT to raise the loan. Of course, the passengers agreed to transfer to the next budget year, to pay six billion from the NIP. You lied, you didn't pay until today. It's a total of over 20 and a few billion, to which the tolls paid interest for years and came into the situation where they came. It is true that when I handed over my duty here in Parliament, I ratified the compensation... (President: Time, Mr. Ilich. )......................................................................................................... 340 minutes... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21719	Three minutes is a replica, it can't be longer. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21720	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, is badly under discussion. This is for LDP, first of all, for society, a very important law, and that's why I think we all need a much better, better quality atmosphere than the one we found ourselves in. Among other things, you contributed to that. It all turned into a semi-private debate between two men who had been worshipping themselves for years with the title of the best ministers. Let's go back to the law itself. That's another confirmation of how right we are when we say that your government is often well-intentioned, but incompetent. You said in your explanation that this is the most important law with which your ministry comes before Parliament this year. How did the ministry treat Parliament by preparing its most important legislative project? You've scheduled us for less than 24 hours since the law presentation session. It is true that around December 23rd, you conducted this public discussion on the law on regional development, but it is also true that you changed the law in the government on Thursday. We're not familiar with these changes. What is essential is the fact that it cannot run away from the hard work that must be done in Serbia. Why are the data as black as you yourself? Why do we have such huge economic decomposition? Why do people want to live in Belgrade and not want to live in the area they come from? Why is Serbia so tragically inefficient today? How are we going to change this country's organization? It's not just a question for your ministry, it's a question of the concept we think we're living in the time ahead of us. The first step we took was political. It's that constitution from 2006. Here we are today, three years after that constitution, instead of giving Serbia the right content that we have established in the Constitution, we are the hostages of this wrong constitution. You said the government had already passed the Law on the financing of local self-government. You know exactly what local self-government thinks about the way they finance themselves. You said we lack the law on the return of property, the statute, the law on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, the law on regional development, but before that you have to answer the question – why are we starting from the wrong point? Is Serbia sufficient economic decentralisation, or is political, above all? What kind of decentralisation is this really about, if the character of this law is absolutely centralistic? You have united in your ministry and economy, and economic relations with abroad, and regional development, and tourism, and privatisation, a whole series of agencies; your ministry has the highest number of state secretaries. Look at your commitment to this law. We tried to record them. I don't think we've been able to record everything, because we've been left with a little time to work on the law. The minister determines the degree of development of the region and units of local self-government, the methodology for calculating the degree of regional development and local self-government units, a unique list of regional development and local self-government units. The government, on a proposal from the Ministry, is working closer on the structure, production methodology, method of coordination, how to conduct public debates, as well as how and deadlines for public awareness of the development of documents. The national plan defines the basis, development and priorities of the regional development of the Republic of Serbia and how they are achieved. The National Plan is being prepared by the Ministry. The regional strategy is brought by the government, on a proposal from the ministry. Take note of this authority by the Minister – the programmes for projects to be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as from other sources for the financial year, brings the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, etc. Absolute centralization. Is that the answer to the simple truth that life in Serbia today describes ineffective, because people are unable to influence their lives specifically? That is the essence of Serbia's collapse. Will this come back to life again a form of thinking and political work that, through your example, would suffer complete failure? The ministry is today trying to do what was incapable of doing through the NIP Ministry. We said you couldn't spend money like that. It turned into part of the 2006-2007 election campaign, and today nobody knows what to do with what's left. We want to have an effective country. We need to implement, if we are talking about economic decentralisation where you insist, fiscal decentralisation, property decentralisation, we need to make these regions capable of governance, availability, decision-making. They can't be transmissions, executioners of your orders. Why are we playing with something so important? I'm talking in the clearest way about the effects of your policy, not just your own, but your government's policies. What kind of government does every minister come and speak for himself? Where is the Prime Minister to tell us now, together with you, about such important laws? What is more important to him than the law introducing regions in our country? Where is it to answer political questions that follow such a thing, to criticism of the opposition that the country is falling apart? More than many in your ruling coalition want this project to succeed, but in order to be successful, it has to be different. You cannot, Minister, equalize the province with the region, Belgrade with the region. If the point is in the subordinate position of those endangered parts of Serbia, such as proudness, how unacceptable is the view that there are differences in the rights of the Belgrade and the Vojvodina regions and these other regions, with this completely incredible description – the central, southern, eastern, western. You got the most votes in the Woodland. Is it a problem to call him that? What's wrong with Nishu? The Republic Statistical Institute cannot do the job and it should not do that, because statistics cannot be a cover for the establishment of a region in Serbia. If we think about establishing economic regions, and having administrative regions on the second level, some administrative regions, we're just going to increase the chaos we're in. Here's a simple example. Novi Pazar and Tutin – Eastern region, Sjenica – Western region and one area. Too much paradox and chaos, and we don't need that. If I'm wrong, then you can imagine just how much this law will be understood by those who, even, don't have the strength or time to listen to this debate. And you yourself are confused here by listing all these regional councils, agencies, associations, national councils, the national agency, how much administration, what red tape of bureaucratic life anyway, so imagine now that what will not be adopted, because you don't have the strength for the political reforms that the country needs, say, the Statute of Vojvodina, in the proposed form. We have in the territory of the Duke's Republic County, so we have provinces, so we have areas of your law, so we have a region, and then we have a national council, so the national council will make a decision that Vojvodina will implement. Who has a majority on the National Council? Most of the National Council has, of course, the Government; there are nine ministers, the Fund's director, appointed by the government, the Serbian Development Fund, and the Director of the EU's Association Office, appointed by the Serbian Government, and then by the National Development Agency, or already as it is called, the Serbian Government. It can't work, Minister Dinkic, and that's our common problem, because what you're talking about is something we're talking about, that people in this country have the right to a normal life, no matter where they live. The state is obliged to create a chance for them, not to try to live a more normal life than they could do themselves. That's why there's no excuse to run away from essential decentralisation. Why is there no law on the return of property to local self-government? That's why people leave. What does the elections in Koserić mean to us? What can Koserić municipality decide? What have local campaigns turned into? To buy votes in the best way ever, as it has ever been in Serbia's history, because the people have been defeated more than ever, in any way. I'm not accusing you personally, but these are facts, so if you're not capable of buying, you can't politically exist. How can a policy be achieved if people do not participate in it? That's a big problem. We think this law has to come back and it would be good if you did. I believe you'll have some kind of majority, but only to vote on him in the assembly. You will be alone when you face Serbia that should live in accordance with this law. No one's gonna be there for you, and that's our problem again. If you make a mistake, you will compromise one project that cannot be successful, such as the failure of the process of European integration of the country, as it must not be a failure to deal with the past, as it must not be a failure to resolve everything that is wrong in our society, because, if we are talking about values, we must be talking about common values. You yourself said you didn't know enough as a finance minister when the international contracts that are now binding on our country were adopted, which is why we're withdrawing from world courts. I'm sorry, if you as finance minister didn't know something like that, if you've all been defending us from seeing the concession agreement together, then you're responsible for something like that together. I'd like to see who from the government, next to you, takes responsibility for this law. Our order of moves is different. We propose that the law be returned, that this law be adapted to what Serbia's real needs are and that the law be discussed in Parliament at the same time as the debate will be held and the law returning property, and the law establishing a logical territorial organisation. The government, Minister Dinkic, cannot define regions in Serbia on a proposal from the Republic Statistics Institute. The government can't give them names. The Law on Territorial Organization is passed by the Assembly. What's it gonna look like, say, the Vojvodina Council, if it's made up by representatives of all local self-government, not just them? That's the advice that 60 people sit in, at least, plus the other ones, that are meant to be. It's one big body. That body is, at its capacity, almost directly to the District Parliament. What are we gonna do about Belgrade? Belgrade municipalities are not units of local self-government. Voždovac and Zemun municipalities do not have the same character as the Kosjeric municipality or any other municipality in Serbia. The local self-government unit is the city of Belgrade. I don't think we're gonna get anywhere unless we can honestly tell our society that it's not the state that can solve the problems that society is in, it's just citizens. The state must not create any further problems for them, and this law, unfortunately, opens up one such possibility. I'd like to see who of your coalition partners believes in him, who's ready to defend him, and whether this will only be spoken in a way that represents paying back debts for some previous support you've provided to a coalition partner, or by running for support that you'll be obliged to give tomorrow. This is a first-class political issue. What will Minister Ugljanin do? We have a minister who is obliged to deal with the development of undeveloped areas. That's a different name for what you were talking about today in your exposé. Is he capable of running that policy? I don't think so. There are many incompetent ministers sitting in your ruling coalition, because it was the price of its formation. Unlike others, who are criticizing you today, and a year ago they were ready for anything to form your ruling coalition, I don't think that's why we're digging trenches here, but where are those who will compensate for it? When we talk about essential problems, then we can't avoid a debate about the causes. Why do people leave the municipalities you've been counting? Will a regional agency, or an area, or some agency advice, association stop them? Of course not. These people are leaving because there is no life in that space. Since there was no life, because life has disappeared because of a bad economy, because of poor political opportunities, or because it is a process that is characteristic of Serbia itself, we cannot artificially establish that life. We can't keep people on artificial lungs. If they can't develop there in a normal way, if they don't have good schools, if they don't have good health care, you can't invent a job for them. The cities you mentioned as cities whose population grew in the meantime have exploded. These are not only migrations from the interior of Serbia, there are many people who have been bleached from the former Yugoslavia, exiled from Kosovo. That's the truth. These cities had the capacity to absorb such migration because there is real life in them. We have to tell society the truth, and then try to adjust our needs to that truth. We can't be so ossions. The distribution of aid, that's the essence of everything, the money that doesn't have enough anyway, will not be one liberal way, but everything will be strictly centralised. You're making plans. All these tips, all those agencies, end up at your door. Is that good? It's not. We think that the money that is created should remain at the addresses where it is created. If there's a few, people will know it's a little because they're doing it badly. If there's enough, there'll be positive examples. Today there's little money for everyone, and no one has the feeling that he doesn't have enough because he's doing bad things, but because his country took it from him. See how the National Investment Plan is realized. Three hundred million for Wet Gora, for Emir Kusturica, and zero dinars for Priboj, where 60% of people are out of business. Big mistake. There are dozens of these cases. We don't have anything to say here. We need to solve the problem, and this isn't the solution. This is the way to take some of the EU's funds, from which we are mostly talking about when we need her money. We would European money, we would European standard of life, but we would not European values. We don't want to establish civil society. We don't want to ask a question of responsibility, first of all, in politics. We don't want to face the results of our own work. We did not score on young people in front of the government, on those camping in front of the presidency of Boris Tadic. We said that the transition in Serbia must be effective and must be fair without being fair, even if each of us were an angel. Citizens of justice can look for justice in a church, if they're not waiting there to spread out with the aces, but together we have to offer society an effective program, and this isn't it. We have three standards for regions. From 150 to 800,000, from 800,000 to three million, from three million to seven million. It can't be a statistical institute, chasing that standardisation that came about in Europe by respecting real life, now it's artificially doing it here. We know what kind of regions we can set up. It is known that Belgrade is so important in itself that it deserves special attention, but not by taking care of Belgrade, so you are proposing and running, but by returning to this city the right to manage and decide. Belgrade is the hostage of a knot that has been built by breaking the jurisdiction of municipalities, the City, the Republic. You don't know who's keeping Gazela. When Gazela is part of an international road, it is the jurisdiction of the state, when every day the Belgraders are struggling on it, the city's government is guilty, so with Gazel, so with Pancheva, so with every mile of asphalt, with telecommunications, with railways, with the airport. What we have to do together, it's to get these relationships back to the point from which they can be implemented in a good way to the goal, which, I guess, is common to everyone, which is a modern country. (President: Time. I'll be done in a minute. First, here is a serious discussion of the country's constitutional reform. Not a campaign, a pointless campaign that traumatises our mutual relations, but a serious discussion of the country's constitutional reform, and then of Vojvodina, the rights and obligations of Vojvodina, Belgrade, every local self-government and message to people in Serbia – join together and organise yourself and tell what the state should do. That way this will be a successful job. If the state tells them what they need to do, the state will be alone, just like you're in the O.R. now. There's no support for a law like this from the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21721	Thank you. I'm setting a break by 3:00. Mr. Dinkich, you have a word after your break.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. Minister Verica Kalanovic attends this session, and the sessions will be returned, according to a business obligation, and Minister Mladjan Dinkic. The word was sought by the People's Messenger Mile Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21723	Madam Vice President, today we are having a debate on a specific law, a matter governed by this law. It draws particular attention, so it can be considered a genis regulation, but it would not be good if the claim of this law was greater than its name, that it regulates regional development in Serbia, i.e., more clearly and more specifically, this law should not be too far ahead of the regulation of the regionalisation system in Serbia, which I believe is not the goal of its adoption. The problem of regionalisation in Serbia is, by the way, subtlely, complex and very important constitutionally and, I would say, a couple of excellent political issues, in order to settle any law that is not a fundamental law in this area by the way. The possible problem of this kind can be met already in Article 1 of the proposed law, which suggests that the law will regulate – the names of the region, the way in which regions make up, how units of local self-government are determined, etc. It would not be good if the law on regional development of the office of matter which, in principle, does not belong to this area, and I think that certain formulations should be carefully reviewed before the law is definitely passed. This law, in my opinion, can only be directed to one aspect of regionalism in our country, which is economic decentralisation, i.e. regional development policy, and this should be maintained, because regionalisation is a much more complex problem than the economic aspect of regionalisation, which is one component. Because of the need to clarify the many misunderstandings and controversys that may arise in connection with this law, I have the impression that no other political issue at this time is holding so much attention to domestic political issues, I would say, and to the general public, such as the issue of decentralisation and regionalisation in Serbia. It would be said that the global economic crisis, which, like all other monsters, does not select victims, has helped significantly. The largest, in my opinion, among the local victims, were local self-governments, cities, municipalities of Southeastern Serbia, which have been exposed to economic collapse for a long time and whose majority of citizens are on the verge of total poverty. Some kind of rescue light at the end of the tunnel, so to speak, the domestic crisis could be, right now, decentralisation. But in modern democratic states, there is also a strong process of regionalisation, which implies the transfer of certain central authorities to certain regional or lower authorities, but which will continue to have a state character. There are, as is known, many definitions of the region and I think it should be said very precisely that regions are often of their own kind, and geographical and historical, clearly recognizable internal formations, which are characterized by certain ethnic, cultural and linguistic and dialectic specificities, but also by a whole series of other features of political, economic, demographic, socio-psychological order, which cannot be precisely recognized in this law, probably because it speaks of only one function of the region, which is a development component. In the case of Serbia, regionalisation would be adapted to the specificities of our legal-political system. Since such regionalisation of the state must rest necessarily on the accompanying principle of demetropolisation, the form would also be applied to regional centres towards local communities in the region, thus preventing overdominating one environment from being dominated by others, which is a very common case in Serbia. In order for regionalisation to be successful, it must necessarily be followed by decentralisation in the field of fiscal policy, which means that the money collected from taxpayers would be significantly more justly deployed than is now the case, so all regional environments would have the same chance for accelerated development in all areas of social life, which I hope is the intensity of this law. The regions, in any sense, should by no means have the attributes of autonomous statehood, because they would be clearly and unequivocally subordinated to the Constitution and to the law envisaged in the state. This means that there must be no talk of regionalisation as a prelude to the fragmentation of the state, nor would the creation of a region motivate the operation of a hidden separatist force, ready to threaten Serbia's territorial integrity. Regionalisation should, in my opinion, be a necessary condition for democratic progress and for the economic improvement of our entire country, to enable citizens to live better and to exercise their rights more effectively. The accent should be functional, not administrative regionalization. This is a European approach and there are good European experiences, which we should apply to us. However, I am one of those people who think that at this point is much more important than the process of regionalisation of the decentralisation process, demetropolisation and strengthening of local self-government, which are the preconditions for achieving both the economic and political policentrism processes in the Republic. In doing so, it seems to me that two processes must be achieved in sync: balanced economic development and strengthening the position of citizens in the country. I think that when we discuss Serbia's regionalisation, in any way, we need to be very careful; we should avoid a trap to impose a country's atomisation process through regionalisation, which could be a latent and real danger. Regionalisation can also potentially lead to further institutionalisation of state functions, only at a lower level, and that must be taken into account. Regionalisation, in my opinion, must not endanger the established classical functions of the state and should not lead to the establishment of so-called. the mini-states at regional level should already lead to the state's effective functioning and citizens exercising their rights in quality. I think we should first pass this law on regional development, which we are now doing, but, complementarily with that, I have talked about this in the context of public debate, and there must be a law on the transfer of state affairs to municipalities and cities, and in a greater amount, more than ever, because if we want to achieve a policy of equal regional development, then we need to give jurisdiction to lower units of local self-government, that they can have mechanisms to achieve this policy of equal regional development. Finally, in Serbia's 50-year-old recent story, there were different forms of regionalism, including the period when there were no intermedial forms of organisation between the Republic and municipalities. There is experience, I think, that they must be carefully analysed, because the issue of a country's territorial organisation is a question of whom they don't approach so often. Now I'd like to look at this component of the so-called. statistical regions, which are in the proposal for a law on regional development, because I think we need to regulate the approach to functional regionalisation through these so-called so-called "regional development" statistical regions as a form of regionalisation; other forms are possible, other modes, perhaps even better than this, but I don't mind such a formulation. The statistical region can exist as a form of economic decentralisation, but in an extremely limited extent. Since this law does not prejudge the territorial order of the state, although it may be understood, which could only be governed by the Constitution, which is clear to all, statistical regions, at least I, consider only as a form to provide EU funds for regional development, in no other way than that. This concept should be seen as an opportunity to reach funds for faster regional development, as any other observation of statistical regions as possible forms of administrative decentralisation is a completely wrong approach. In addition, in Article 4 of this proposal of the law, statistical regions are defined as – statisticalally functional territorial continents and, rightly, because of possible misunderstandings and misunderstandings, it is not about administrative territorial units. In this context, it is specifically proposed for the discussion to be a solution in Article 6 of this Law, that the Government determines the units of local self-government and urban municipalities that make up the area, so, in my opinion, that this can be arranged differently, because this can be included in the territorial organisation of the Republic, which is not good From the third chapter, then the matter of regional development should be properly arranged, with the fact that I do not understand why in Chapter V, which speaks of regional development entities, only the competences of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and the capital, but not the municipalities and cities in Serbia. Whether they are not considered important subjects of regional development, or something else is at stake, I don't know, but if it stays that way, it can create the impression that it is inclining again towards economic metropolisation, not economic politicintriism, which is the basic idea of this law. Finally, with certain adjustments to be made, I consider this law to be an initial step towards Serbia's full regional development, but it cannot and must not be prepared for Serbia's future administrative regionalisation, and it must be clearly said, because then and otherwise it could be talked about the proposed law if the motives were second. It would be better, I agree with those colleagues who spoke here from both the expert and scientific point of view, if you will, that, before this law, some other laws, which regulate Serbia's territorial organisation, were to regulate this system, in a way that would express political will in this country, but since it takes a change of constitution, it probably gave up, which means that it should not give up and that the harmonisation of this law should be done when the time comes. In the end, the idea of this law should be seen not as a crossover of Serbia's territorial organisation, but as a strengthening of economic policentrism and economic decentralisation in Serbia, because by applying it, one process, which will be long-term and long-term, would begin to reduce differences not in poverty, but in the economic status of certain parts of Serbia, which is what it repeatedly points to from undeveloped areas from the south and southeast of Serbia, from areas where the state has not invested enough in their development. The adoption of this law is, in fact, the process of changing economic policy, in terms of even regional development, and this is a good way to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21724	Before we continue with the course of the session in which the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups have the floor, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Article 85(5), that we will be working after 18 hours today, by discussing a point that is currently on the agenda. According to the electronic system, the word is issued by MP Dragan Stevanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. (Zoran Nikolic, from the place: How does he now have a word? ) I said that I was giving a notice during the session when the word was wanted by the presidents of the parliamentary groups, at the time none of the presidents of the parliamentary groups were registered in the electronic system. The MPs apply to the electronic system only once, pressing the key in front of them, once, and the system after a while erases the MPs who have not received the word. That's an explanation. It's no problem. Please continue to work, with an understanding of how the electronic system works. So no problem is you sign up for a word and get it the equivalent size of a parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21725	Thank you for giving me your word, but I thought I'd take it from the Rules of Procedure. So we log in neatly this morning and wait for our turn to discuss this law, and now we hear that the electronic system resets its information from time to time and that we need to re-apply. I don't know if it says that in the Rules of Procedure, I'm not familiar with that flaw in the electronic system, which is obviously the only one you have. This is no longer important, what is important today is that today's regional development law, an extremely important law for our country, but the solution offered by the Resolute Ministry is disastrous, inadmissible, inadmissible, inadmissible, irresponsiblely irresponsible by the competent minister, but also by the government through which this law has been passed. Why am I saying that? Because this law is politically controversial, because in certain provisions it is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it provides for the establishment of eight new agencies, eight new councils, God knows how many district associations, therefore, one massive new administrative apparatus, which one should pay. The one who will pay for it, as foreseen by the law, are citizens of Serbia, but what it is in this law, is that citizens are not asked when forming these powerful agencies, when forming these district associations, but the citizen is deprived of the right to decide on his fate and the place where his money will go and is given to the minister, i.e. the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask you a question: Where do you have the right to take away the right of the citizens to decide who they will associate with, how will they be joined? The state should give the frameworks, that the right of citizens, first of all, to local self-governments, to decide on the basis of economic, economic, commercial, traffic and all other criteria themselves, in which direction they want to join, on the way they want to do so, of course, in accordance with the law. This proposal is unconstitutional because you have dared to enter new terms here – region, area. Tell me, is the area mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia somewhere? What law on territorial organization mentions the term, let it also be a statistical character, a territorial organization? Is there a regulation? I don't think there is. Where do you get the right to throw something that's against the law? A SPS colleague said he believed this was not an introduction to Serbia's territorial, or administrative division, but how did you, colleague Ilic, hope and belief that this was not an introduction? If someone dares to drag the organization units that are not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, it is already sufficient to indicate that this can go in the direction that the proposed regions later become administrative regions. If it's not an emergency to become administrative regions, then why are they formed this way? Secondly, this government has allowed itself to divide Serbia, at least like this territorial functional continent that has only a statistical character, into some seven parts. Where did you get the right to do that? What does Western Serbia mean? From Sava to Montenegro? What does that kind of termology mean to you? The Duke? Kosovo and Metohija? Belgrade? What about the rest of Serbia, what do you call it? Shake the sides of the world – east, north, west, south. It is not Serbia's east, west, north, south, Serbia has its own economic, historical, economic, traffic, cultural continents, which have its names since the ages. So you've made one administrative decision, Western Serbia from Capca to Prepolje, and you claim it's a functional continent. The Sabbath is in the Sword, it wants to develop, first of all, in the sphere of agriculture. The interest of the Mačvanski District is that together a regional performance, let's say, with the Sremski District, it has joint projects on regional deposit, on demand for EU funds, on agrarian business, irrigation, joint projects, the overlapping of agri-industrial zones that are under way. It's the citizens' interest, but you're not asking the citizens of local self-government, you've already made a decision to decide everything and to decide what money you're going to distribute. So if there's a law that's been entered into the assembly procedure since this new council is supposed to back down, it's this law. That, believe me, is an honorable way out of this situation. However, we offer you another solution. To this 56-member law, the DSS Parliamentary Group submitted 44 amendments. You should not be impressed by the number of amendments, but by the content of these amendments. We have managed to change the essence of all these amendments of this law... Madam Minister, is something funny to you? I would ask the chairman not to make the minister laugh ironically as the MPs speak. And if he can't help himself, then come out and have a good laugh and come back. I'm talking about serious things here. It's funny to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21726	Please leave your warning of the respect of the Rules of Procedure to the chair and to treat all participants in the session with respect. I ask you to call if anyone is laughing or not to leave out of your exposure, because it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Do not do the work of the chairman, who will take care of whether someone violates the Rules of Procedure or not. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21727	I thought we were at the same job, protecting the reputation of this House. It is not natural for a minister to laugh in the face of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21728	National MP, I warned you not to use such a way of addressing other participants in the session, whether they are ministers or not, it is unacceptable. I warn you to continue your presentation of the law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21729	I would very much like to hear your opinion of this law, because it would be high time for you to speak of your political position and the political position of the party you belong to, not of abuse of the presidency, but I am going back to the law. So the establishment of such a large number of agencies is out of the question. It's a build-up of administration. You have made decisions – which regions, how regions are formed, how regional advices and regional development agencies will be formed, you name them, you set them up, you give them money, and we need to believe that it will be fair and that it will be a function of even regional development. The law, by nature itself, cannot solve all the problems in the field. We can make an ideal law, the question is whether the consequences will be the ones we expect. Minister Dinkic, as a good EU follower, cited examples from the EU, or countries in transition that passed these laws, but did not say the practical state, that the laws on regional development and regionalisation in many countries did not give the expected effects. Is it in Poland, where the law was passed in 1999... I'd like to ask you to calm down the marble in the O.R. If you don't have eyes to see the minister laughing, I guess you have ears to hear what's going on in the O.R., and if you don't have eyes or ears, then that's another thing, I know you have a language.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21730	National MP, for the third time I warn you to take care of your obligations under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not try to do my job, at least until you are in that position. All MPs who break the Rules of Procedure will be warned and then warned, and I will always be against being considered in this room or anywhere necessary to warn anyone not to laugh. I ask you not to do this and not to warn me of the violation of the Rules of Procedure by other Members of the People, but to do your duty in the time you have received, and not the work of the chairman, whoever is chairing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21731	You're wasting my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21732	You don't have to warn me in the time that belongs to you. No one has been denied the time it is due under the Rules of Procedure or for warning when it violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21733	Obviously, the truth hurts, because what I'm saying about this law is, obviously, contrary to your political views, which is why you act and abuse your function...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21734	National MP, at this time you are in violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the ban on giving views relating to the private life of other persons. You don't leave me any room but to give you measures. Please don't do this and behave yourself. Your manner and intention to, by breaking the Rules of Procedure to the brink of acceptance, endanger the dignity of the National Assembly, will be prevented. This is the last warning. Please concentrate on your presentation and give reasons for whether or not you accept the draft law which is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21735	Are you done? I hope that we will agree at least in one way – let the citizens who watch this transmission assess who is decent and who is not and end this. This law is unconstitutional, as suggested, and according to the organizational bodies that you propose here. The law clearly points to political trade within the ruling coalition, where the G17, Minister Dinkic, receives what he wants, which is money, funds and the possibility that through regional development agencies he can restore his infrastructure on the ground, and the DS and President of the Republic of Boris Tadic are using this for reasons that he does not have the courage to admit his party's error with regard to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, cannot put him in the assembly procedure, so he is trying in some way to relativise a major delay in the regional development law regarding the statute. If you specifically and taxively tell the AP Vojvodina, the city of Belgrade, that their authorities, that the executive bodies of the AP Vojvodina participate in the work of the regional council, in the national council, then in the beginning you put two of the most developed regions in a position that is unequal to other regions, and you have an impediment to develop Serbia evenly. The law is politically controversial. The organisational units you are predicting are not in accordance with the Constitution, i.e. against the constitution and, in essence, this law is centralist law. He gives authority to you, the Ministry of Regional Development. With you money, you have technical opportunities to influence the composition of regional councils and regional agencies, which is why those elements, i.e. entities that should participate in regional development, are not asked in the way they should, and these are, above all, local self-governments. You bypass local self-government, you intend to, I'll say it openly, to blackmail them, by setting them up, because if it's your will, they'll get the money, and if it's not your will, there won't be any money. Why should we trust you to be truly identified for a balanced regional development? Minister Dinkic said today that around two billion dinars have been allocated from the NIP so far. As far as I know, 185 million dinars have so far been invested from the NIP area of KIM. Do you know where 135 million were spent in the municipality? In the municipality of Leposavić, where you have a president of the municipality. It's the criteria by which you operate. Municipality of Leposavić – 135 million, all other municipalities on KIM – 50 million. We've been victims for years when transfers are distributed to local self-government. I'm afraid local self-governments in which the presidents of the municipalities are representatives of the G17 receive more funds than the other presidents of the municipalities. So that's what was involved in the abuses, and that keeps us convinced that on the basis of this law, you're also going to commit huge abuses. I said this is a good law for Serbia, but this is a terriblely bad proposal for Serbia if it passes. First of all, I appeal to DS MPs, but also to the SPS, as I see, on the basis of the presentation of the mandated proposal, Mr Ilic, that there are certain reserves, to pay attention to the amendments that we have submitted, 44 amendments fundamentally amending this law, which at the center of regionalisation, the potential of regionalisation, puts local self-government, namely the citizens who finance this local self-government, to organise themselves in the best possible way in accordance with the law, respecting economic, economic, economic, cultural and historical proximity, and not in such an administrative manner, at great risk, the possibility that these divided regions will grow one day and into administrative territory. I appeal that, with the adoption of the amendments we have proposed, this law is something that is good, which can free the potential of local self-government and that will affirm the regional principle, i.e. the principle of regionalisation and all that is good. I say to the MPs and to the National Assembly, forget about this law. This isn't the law. This is a political trade. Pay attention, read the 44 amendments submitted by the DSS. If you want a real law on regional development, we adopt all 44 amendments, we'll have a good law. This law is no good, serves to only continue to centralise political and financial power in the hands of one party and the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21736	The time available, as an authorised representative, is another five minutes. The word was sought by Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21737	Ladies and gentlemen, the profession and the place from which I speak to you requires me to answer these objections to the law in principle to answer the facts. In 2007, in August, a group was formed to draft a law on regional development, headed by me, as State Secretary, then at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which gave me the right to only manage facts when it comes to the proposal for a law on regional development. I can tell you that before we take this law into our hands, we need to be aware of three facts. One is that Serbia is the country with the biggest regional differences in Europe, the other is that Serbia is one of the two countries, the other is Bosnia, in a Europe that has not passed a law on regional development, and the third is that modern, stable and territorial and economically developed countries in Europe have defined regions. Everything else represents insinuations, conjectures, thesis, phrases, whatever you want, and it has nothing to do with either the cause or the facts that are laid out in this law. I want to tell you that regional development is a burden that this country carries tens of years ago and is a long-term process in which we must participate, not one party, not one man, not one working group, not a lot of partners, not this moment, it's something that we must all work on for a long, long time to achieve results. That was my goal when I came to the post of Secretary of State for Regional Development. I came from the fact that Serbia's Regional Development Strategy was adopted for five years from 2007 to 2012. The strategy was brought by a government whose prime minister was Vojislav Kostunica, technically not participating in G17 plus. The strategy is a good, serious document, which was submitted by an institution called the Institute for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. As one of the most serious partners in lawmaking, Mr. Jakopin, Director of the Development Institute, participated. How did the DSS say about the Strategy at that point? Mr Lončar, at a press conference on 11 January 2007, said the objectives of the Sustainable Development Strategy, raising regional competitiveness, reducing poverty, stopping the decline in birth, continuing decentralisation, economic integration of Serb communities in KIM, building institutional regional infrastructure. The document, which he called epochal, also includes the adoption of a new law on regional development and new regional policy and the establishment of central and regional financial institutions to assist in implementing measures for balanced development. That's what the potter said. If you look at the Strategy and the Regional Development Act, you will see complete compatibility. If you turn the Strategy around, you will see that NUTS 2 and NUTS 3 methodologies on the first few pages drew Serbian maps. It was neither Mr Dinkic nor the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. This was done by institutions, based on well-known, statistical criteria, which they agreed with Eurostat, but also on those mentioned by Mr Ilic, historical, geographical, cultural, infrastructure, economic and future developmental, comparative criteria. Of course, there were many criteria on which institutions, which in their jurisdiction were tasked with doing so, worked. This map, which is drawn today in the paper, is nothing more than a proposal from the Republic Institute for Development, the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which has to adopt the Government. It's not a map drawn by one ministry, it's a map drawn by the waist. The second thing you're talking about is that citizens are not meant to participate in institutions. On the contrary, if you read in detail the law, you will see that in both regional development agencies, and in district associations, citizens have the greatest role to play in the decision-making process and the purpose of this law is to lower their competence to decide citizens, to decide whose needs are solved by this law. When you talk about the NIP, I want to tell you that you have completely abused what Mr Dinkic said. Two billion dinars are foreseen from the NIP for 40 of the most vulnerable municipalities, as a state-run infrastructure development programme. Let me remind you, in 40 undeveloped municipalities, the presidents of the municipalities are from all parties. The most money was given to the Prepolje municipality, I know, because I run this program, the Prepolje municipality whose president is from the SNS. In 40 of the most underdeveloped municipalities, one is from G17 plus, and that is the president of the Municipality of Trgovište. I can tell you that there is no politicisation in regional development, nor in NIP projects, nor in measures and support that must be given to mitigate regional differences in Serbia. Today we are talking about regional differences as something that is Mr Dinkic's legacy. No, it's a legacy that's tens of years old and, with serious measures, incentives and instruments of the state, it has to have an impact on the reduction of differences. One of them is the NIP, but there are many that will be defined by the annual funding programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21738	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21739	So everything Mr. Lonchar said isn't disputed. I don't see that what I said here is contrary to what he said back then. So, the DSS stands for even regional development. We say this law is good for the Republic of Serbia, but that the solution you have proposed is disastrously bad. You can say that the profession here has determined what these seven regions will look like, but give me some information. What waist? Come on, say right here, when I'm done, state your expert opinion, on what professional criteria are these regions divided this way? Tell me an expert explanation of why the Region of Vojvodina is called Vojvodina, and central Serbia is called Central Serbia and not Shumadija? Give me the answer right after I finish my replica, if you're already calling on the waist. The amendments to this law have been tried and, hopefully, we have succeeded, again I draw attention to the MPs to pay attention to all these amendments that we have submitted, to bring the law closer to local self-government and to citizens, to limit you in that part to have an impact on both regional councils and regional agencies, and on money, and thus to devise the principle of even regional organisation, or the principle of decentralisation. This is centralist law and it's the essence of our criticism. You've come up with the principle of decentralisation with this bill of law. This does not lead us to the Council of the European Regions, this leads us to further centralization, that you, who have decided on the funds in the NIP, decide on funds that will be charged for even regional development. That's the point. I would ask you once again, if you are already referring to the facts that you are allegedly ruling and to the profession, which you have relied on in your presentation, to give me now, on the basis of your expertise and professional data that you have, a concrete answer. I'm sure you won't be able to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21740	The word was sought by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21741	I want to give an answer. If we look at statistical-functional regionalisation as predicted by the Republic Statistics Institute, according to Eurostat criteria, but using others, we come up with a response to the profession. So, the Republic Statistics Institute has officially drawn maps based on statistical criteria, using others, not just numbers from 800,000 to 3 million. Is it logical that the administrative regions of KIM and Vojvodina change their names because they are both statistical regions? Is it logical that the city of Belgrade is called NUTS 3? It's perfectly normal that these are the names that are up and there's no need to be changed. As for central, western, southern and eastern Serbia, as you have seen, statistical regions affect territory that is not only related to traditional names, it is not related to Machva, nor to Šumadija, nor to Pchinj, nor to Timočka krajina. These are territories that cover a larger area and are traditionally called eastern, western, central and southern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21742	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Prosperity Group, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21743	The SNS has hosted the ambassadors of many countries accredited to Belgrade over the past few months. What we noticed in Western diplomats was that they were asking about Kosovo and Metohija, The Hague Tribunal, the regionalisation of Serbia, and we realized that something very serious was being prepared, which is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and what should be hidden by some law. You are now forcing us to divide ourselves here as individuals, to accept that this is not regionalisation, convinced that you are, in fact, trying to fool the EU's regional development funds, which you believe is regionalisation, and that we, citizens of Serbia, are not regionalisation, but a statistical territorial continent. The president of Serbia who said that, in fact, we just want to share wealth better. If we're so rich, then why do we need even regional development? What, then, are we talking about territories that are completely undeveloped, empty from the population? I think that here, by harsh translation of the word'regional development', there was the creation of a region. Let me remind you, SFRY was a country of the region. They were called republics, and they were regions. Today it's the states. Serbia-Montenegro was a two-regional state, today they are independent states. Here you make a clear distinction among Serbian citizens, demeaning some citizens of Serbia by declaring Vojvodina a statistical region. Excuse me, please, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina is an autonomous province. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I do not read to you Article 176, which mentions only provinces and units of local self-government, Article 183, which says that the Autonomous Province, in accordance with the law, regulates issues of territorial importance in the area of spatial planning and development, and that is its constitutional authority, Article 184, which says that the Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to Serbia's budget, with three quarters of what I think must be invested in financing capital expenditures. You can't touch that. Don't tell me anything about being allowed to touch it, it's constitutional categories. How does Vojvodina not now have an unbalanced regional development? Are you saying Banat is just as rich as Buck, that there are no regions that need further help, that the population does not go out of them and develop further? Do you even know how poor you live in Vojvodina, in Banat, especially? Banat is the poorest part of Vojvodina. You place it in a developed part of Serbia, because within the region, the region receives money as developed or underdeveloped. If you'd shared your statistical continents differently, if Banat had been classified as undeveloped, he'd have gotten more money, if he could have developed a little better and more evenly. You say this is because many villages and cities in Serbia have relaxed. Now tell me, what kind of programs did you make? Will you give the population back? Who analyzed how many residents are returning to this division and the Shop, and to Bosilegrad, and to all the cities you mentioned, for which all of Serbia and small children know that they are no longer interesting for housing? How much money do we invest there now, according to the population today, according to the population of 30 years ago, or according to the expected population? What is the expected number of inhabitants to remain a comprehensive territory of the Republic of Serbia? How's the migration going? You know very well, people from the village used to come down to the first city, and today they skip, they arrive in Belgrade or Vojvodina. Serbia is moving to Belgrade or Vojvodina, to these two regions you cannot touch. You talk in vain about the East and the West and the South and central Serbia, and I listened to that while the Albanians said they were something special, so Serbia was without the AP Kosovo and Metohija. That's what the central Serbia is called. Now you've returned to our fear that you're preparing something like that for us. Why does Europe decide what the regions of Serbia are? Why did Mr. Minister say in his first sentence that this was an important step towards decentralisation? What decentralisation? Territorial? For me, decentralisation is the descent of power from republican to local self-government, not on five transfers to local self-government, and all that within the G17 Plus firm. To be clear, you'll probably hire a lot of your people in all this fiction. But these people, they need to know -- how they got the job, they're gonna lose it. With their commitment to the G17 Plus party, by inventing bureaucracy and administrations, they bind their life's interest to your party and no one has any moral concerns about them at the time when you leave the government, and you'll leave quickly, since I've heard you won't forgive the DS if he ever cooperates with us. I became engrossed and suggested to our authorities in Zemun that they offer a coalition to DSS, NS and SRS, of course, there are those who are euthanasia, some who are imprisoned in self-insulation, no matter, but if I knew that Serbia would be saved by you leaving the government, I would now propose to DS to make a coalition in Zemun, because, Mr Dinkic, in the stands, when you mention poverty, even the KIM, The Hague tribunal, the people are in disreputable, and when you mention Mladjan Dinkic, the sky and the earth is broken. All of Serbia is against you. How many council seats have you won in Zemun and on Vozdovac? When will you try it, you Serbia's savior, you who have all our money from the budget, when are you going to try somewhere in that Belgrade, at the republican level, just to get to the polls? How long do you get us as a swine flu virus? It just appears after the formation of the G17 Plus Government in power. No one expected you, no one voted for you, and you are now proposing some kind of regionalisation, which will not be regionalisation for us, and for the EU will be regionalisation, because they are going into a balanced development of the region rather than even regional development. You're making us regions now, you're in the way of the Constitution. What bothers me in my life, but please approach the amendments to the Constitution. Don't embarrass us with the Constitution. The constitution is good, it was brought by citizens of Serbia. Whoever has a better one should suggest that Serbian citizens declare that better constitution. If the G17 plus has 50% of the electoral bodies to change the Constitution, suggest, please, changes to the Constitution, don't make up all kinds of stories here and give us extras. How am I, as a citizen, who is related to both Kragujevac and Belgrade, to Kragujevac more, and root and origin, to accept that my region is called Central Serbia? Historically, it's never been called that, ever. If I had a region in the East, West, what are we? Sides in the stadium, east, west, north, south? There's a more expensive map somewhere. It's cheaper somewhere. That's how you share us who know nothing about Serbia. The Duke must not be driven, because Nenad Canak will not establish the quorum. Yesterday I almost ended up in intensive care – signed by Nenad Canak as president of the National Council for Equal Regional Development. What's national about him? What's Serbian about him? What about him? He who curses the mother of Serbia is the president of the Serbian Council for Equal Regional Development, for which only Vojvodina exists! Here comes tourism, gives you quorum and gives you a voice. The one who doesn't appreciate us as a lousy bob. When did you pick him? Now you want me to believe that you are able to determine the exact limits of those statistical regions. You say -- we don't know how those cards were already published, but science is behind it. What are we here for? We have no right to see that science? We have no right to see the borders of those regions, and they have the right to see journalists. First, press pressure, then give it to the MPs. What's not an integral part of the law? The government will determine which region Valjevo, in which Zajecar, where Vranje is to be, will determine everything the government will determine. Then why do we need the law? The law could only be written – the government is obliged to care for balanced and sustainable regional development, and almost, there's the law. How many new agencies have you invented, how many new tips? What is the mandate of members of the council? Five years. Will you be in power for five years, Mr. Dinkic? What do you think, when we win now, by the fall, that you will remain in charge of this council, that you will sue some court for not fulfilling your five-year term? What are you playing with? The MPs are four years old and Dinkic is five years old. Don't you realize that there are no more areas where you can be a minister? You've ruined everything, Mr. Dinkic. There is a large list of DS and majority Dinkic here. When will you Democrats go to the election on your own? When will you assess your strength against the SNS? What are you collecting these little political parties to bring you some more votes? Let's see who will lead Serbia – Dinkic or most in the election. You bring him into parliament, he immediately changes the government law, gives half the budget to himself and his ministries. He thinks it's what the people want to put up with. He started with the National Bank, ends with a balanced regional development. What development bank will help from Serbia, Mr Dinkic? What bank did you leave behind, at least one to get out of the enrollment, from the record? What insurance company, what's left of you Serbian? You're saying we have the best banking system, you say -- we've got profits on "puntu", drug profits. It's the best profit on customs -- you just pay one customs officer, he fills out forms, charges 20%, that's more than 700 euros, much more. Your one job at the flag costs a million euros. Find me an industrialist who'll invest a million euros in one job. How many billion for a few thousand workers? How much did we give this Fiat for one employee? All this looks good, your mouth is full of praise. You will develop Serbia evenly, take care of the poor. How do you take care of the poor girl? When we started affairs about your directors of public enterprises, you pressed 'yellow', published a few things about them, and they all shut up. No one can announce the salaries of your officials anymore, as you, as an orphan, work for 70,000 dinars a month, and you have a director who has 18,000 euros a month from your break. So, who's the party president here? What a philanthropist you are, I never thought there were such good people. It was all given to you by Serbia, Mr Dinkic, because at some point in time, you had a machine gun in your hand. You didn't need the brains to break into the National Bank with a machine gun. Scare the socialists, take pictures with you, hug you and kiss you. This handover was quite correct and fair; so in Carin, so in the National Bank, so in all institutions. Today you're criticizing some of your former coalition partners, but when I heard that you hadn't heard how to make projects and roads, then I realized that you should actually be given a test. Choose whatever test you want, just pass it. You can also test physical endurance, but at least pass some tests, Mr. Dinkic, so we know you knew something and that you could do something about it. You didn't know how to build roads. You've had a lot of work to do, so you've learned it, you've learned it, you've figured it out – God, there should be projects, there should be expropriation, there should be machines. This law must not be passed. This is a new division of Serbia and you want to tear us apart. And you're a part of it, a socialist. I've heard you praise this law. It's an honor. Vojislav Kostunica gave up regionalisation when he realized what it was leading to. Now new regionalists have appeared. How much does Serbia have to be to be small? The Duke already has the Dukes, and the Duke's tongue, and the Duke's staff, the Duke's budget. They've been blackmailing you here for months. You can't pass any laws without those who don't care about Serbia at all. How can you even an autonomous province with the region? If there were three, four regions in that province, I would understand, but you are equating the constitutional category of the province with your statistical functional continent. How is it found to be statistically functional? This is a fruit of compromise. Belgrade must not be touched. Terrace and Furious Fox – at the same level of development. You don't even know where Mad Fox is. When did you go to the campaign? Anyone who cares about the state can't be for this law. He who cares about the party, his political career at the station, but he who cares about the state, can't plead positively about this law. This is something similar to when Badenter declared the republican borders to be interstate. One day, the border of these statistical regions will be the border of new regions, and then the regions will join the EU on their own. You divide us into the rich north and the poor south. You say there's no division like that. There was this in Italy, it barely survived Italy, but they had more reason and more people patriotically defined. They have Italy in their heart. What's in your heart? Where are your G17 personnel now who ended their political careers? In European institutions. Did one of them take a job at one of our companies? No, it's nobody, you don't care. For that reason, mind to the head. Don't push us too hard. I am for a peaceful, democratic, absolutely developed Serbia, but there is no room for DOS politics. Change that policy of yours. There is no room for revolution, there is no room for crisis headquarters, there is no room for what Mrs Gordana Komic told me on a TV show – when you have 126, do what you want. What, the one who doesn't have 126 shouldn't live? Don't be surprised you're losing the election. You guys keep Dinkic by your side, I'll be partly happy, we'll beat you everywhere, but because of Serbia, I don't want it to last too long. If it's not enough to test Zemun and Vozdovac, call the election wherever you want. Put some kind of choice on the terraces. Do you see what the people want? Do you react to what the citizens of Serbia want, or do you just care to count your titles and your skills? It is clear that Serbian citizens want a change, and you are not trying to give them a change. They might believe you if you changed, but you're the same as you were nine years ago. 15 days ago, I'm warning you what's going on on the administrative border with Kim. Pretend nothing's going on. Yesterday, the KIM minister is just responding, so he says -- we're going to be giving severe denials; we've had deficits for nine years, and KIM has been like scissors in the area that will no longer be part of Serbia. So you're going to do it for Vojvodina, so God forbid, some part of the region in the west. We'll be against it. We've put an amendment to such a pointless law, we don't know what to erase with the amendments. The basic idea needs to be destroyed, the idea that there's some kind of transmission between the government and local self-government, the idea that there's advice and there's agencies, so the National Agency, so the regional agency, and then the areas will get involved, the idea of hiring another 1,000, 2,000 officials, so they need to get paid, they need to be provided. If you, with your ministry, would move, say, to the Shop and let me understand. You don't care, you live in Belgrade, for Belgrade will always have, for others they won't. We'll be up in voting day... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I apologize, we will appear here in the voting day, if you have a quorum, and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21744	Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21745	I was not there to respond to the opening statement of the president of the LDP Parliament Club, here, now, and now the Progressive Party, which has one part that is professional, and one part is moral. As for the professional work of dilemmas, remarks, benevolent or unfavorable understanding, I would like to repeat once again that Serbia does not have full administrative regionalisation at this time, for the simple reason that our constitution implies only two administrative regions, one of which has full responsibility, such as the AP Vojvodina, and the other is KIM, which is defined as autonomy in the Constitution, but you know that, essentially, they do not have their own budget and have the right jurisdiction to have one autonomy, in accordance with our constitution. Therefore, it was not easy to find solutions, what to call other statistical regions, and we deliberately used names that are statistical, precisely because we did not want to prejudge the future territorial organisation of Serbia. A territorial organisation is being discussed when constitutional changes are being discussed. Some here believe that constitutional changes in that part are necessary, I belong to them, others believe that they are not, and a broad public debate will be conducted, I am convinced, in the coming years. It is absolutely certain that it is difficult for only one part of Serbia to have such rights as Vojvodina today. Vojvodina has those rights as inherited and they must remain, however, others must get those rights. The unsustainable situation is that southern Serbia, southeast, southwestern Serbia has no jurisdiction, no own resources, and only Vojvodina has them. It's not the Dukes' fault, of course, that they have inherited it, but it's unsustainable on the long term to have the same, or similar rights, because asymmetry and regionalization models are possible, they don't get the rest. So, to be equal in rights, because citizens in whatever part of Serbia have the right to use the same opportunities as, say, fellow citizens in another part of the country. In that sense, I am sure there will be serious public expert debates, ultimately, political debates on administrative regionalisation. However, the question has been raised whether to wait for this debate to end and only then go with the Regional Development Law proposal, or to go ahead of this debate and offer something that exists in all other EU countries, to offer a law on regional development that defines statistical regions? In EU countries there are both statistical and administrative regions and there is always a debate on what is better to be done first – administrative or statistical. Theoretically speaking, it would have been better if we had done administrative regionalization first, then we wouldn't have had these dilemmas why we call Vojvodina a statistical region. This is not because we do not submit to Vojvodina, but simply, we have to have a nomenclative framework for co-operation with the EU, for the withdrawal of pre-accession funds. I had this presentation at the Vojvodina Executive Council, in Novi Sad, they supported it unanimously. So they don't mind, because they know what this means, what is the benefit of European integration, which the Vojvodina itself, as a province, can have if this law is passed. As for others, I think that, in any case, this will make people think about whether we want Serbia to be territorially arranged and organised by the reputation of other European countries, and by the reputation of which countries, because they are different examples. Certainly, Serbia does not fit the administrative regionalisation system Germany has. Germany is a large state, a federal state, and it is certain that a country with eight million inhabitants, like Serbia, cannot go that way. If you look at other countries, each one in its own way has been regulated by the area of administrative regionalisation, which also means the transfer of rights and responsibilities to regions. Regions don't rule out the municipality, but they are, right, one interstep to the central level of government. In some countries, which are larger, there are as many as four intersteps, and that is probably not good. Italy, for example, has a central state and local self-government and specific autonomous areas and regions in Italy, and it is indeed a system that, as far as I'm concerned, is complicated. But in most countries there are at least three levels, one is the level of the municipality, the second is the level of the region and, of course, the central government. Administrative regionalisation will also mean that the collection of certain tax revenues is left to regions, such as now one part of the tax revenues of the AP Vojvodina, regardless of whether we have the provinces, or we will have one province and the other areas. Whatever it is called, the essence of regionalisation is that these people living in the locals are allowed to raise funds and be responsible for developing their own region, and that is then a motive for these citizens to choose their local and regional authorities to develop their own region more quickly. Another jurisdiction is, as a rule, transferred to regions in administrative decentralisation, which is the competence in the adoption of certain rules. Ecology regulations, from areas related to local culture, are passed in regions, not central congregations. Central congregations make decisions regarding peace, security, the central budget, for areas of importance for the whole country, while regions determine some important issues for them, and relatively irrelevant for the central level, because environmental issues are not the same, for example, in southern Serbia and in the north of Vojvodina. There are different problems, and each one settles his problems with his own regulations. Of course Serbia will someday come to that. Why? Not because I want to, but because it's inevitable. It is not normal for only one part of Serbia, which at this time is Vojvodina, to have, I say, such a privilege that its citizens can pass such regulations, have their own budget and essentially use money from the republican and regional budget. It is not fair that in southern Serbia, in western Serbia, southeastern Serbia, they do not have similar opportunities. They don't have to be the same, but they must be given equal rights to everyone if we want to have no tension in Serbia, if we don't want Mayor Nis to come forward with the question – why in Nis only 5% of the privatisation remains in the city, and in Vojvodina 50%? These things, believe me, will cause tension in the future if in a proper way, after a big public debate, they don't solve it. We can hide in front of the team, but it's got to be solved. In doing so, all EU countries have regions; this does not mean that these countries are split. The countries can be torn apart if they are unitary, if the political elite is not up to a certain historical moment, and vice versa, they can be ultimately decentralised and regionalised and that there is no division of the country, if the political elites are up to a certain point. It's up to us politicians to be open here. There are those who have these qualities that want to build something, and there are those who want to break it down. This is not determined in the time in which we live, unfortunately for our citizens, it is found only in some historical period. Once again, the names of the statistical regions were deliberately given statisticalally, and the Central region does not cover only the Shumadi and Pomoravalje. It covers wider areas. That's why we didn't know what to call him and, of course, if the majority of citizens in the referendum tomorrow were for some of the administrative regionalization models, then there would be a change in this law, so the names would change. It's not about names. It's about the point. It is important to create a mechanism that will help more even regional development and help directly co-operate Serbia's statistical regions with EU statistical regions, i.e. withdrawing pre-accession funds. Will this solve all the problems of Shop, Bosilegrad, Major and others? Well, it goes the same way with all the other laws. The laws give opportunity, and those who enforce the law determine whether to make use of the possibility to a greater or lesser extent. It's an absolute truth for all the laws that are passed, in any country. Here I have not heard any irrelevant remarks from the aspect of the law, here the remarks refer to doubt whether this one or that set is capable of applying the law. I must say, I am very pleased that there are no fundamental objections to the law itself. The proposal to withdraw the law to withdraw itself, to criticise it, is not a serious proposal, it is a political proposal. This law has been written in professional circles and therefore I am convinced that the governments, of course, along with the amendments, as time goes on, will use it and will help the citizens. Now let me move on to the moral part of what Tomislav Nikolic just said. I don't know if you're doing this consciously or unconsciously, but at some point it can't be for a European idea and against European values, and when it's appropriate for your voters, it's against European ideas and against European values. It can't be in the EU when you're trying to get close to some ambassadors, so you're going to pick up receptions, but if you're really for the EU, as you've been talking lately, you need to apply European values. One of the European values is regionalisation and the law on regional development. I don't mind when, say, this parliamentary group says we're against Europe. That's fair. It's not fair if you say we are for Europe, but we don't like it, we don't want those values, and you go to those receptions and everything. That's not fair. What else isn't fair? Mr. Nikolic, it is not fair for you and your colleagues to call me for money, and that you are a party that has its own list behind it, while a party whose head I have never had anything to do with a single list, let alone owned. How can you be so immoral, because what your "Justice" list does is something that crosses the limits of every normal, professional, I won't say, good taste. You'll say, we have nothing to do with "Justice." (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I will not. ) But I will ask you, if you have nothing to do with the list "Justice", why is this editor-in-chief, Aleksandar Vukic, taking her everywhere, and even when she goes to drink wine in the Goriška hills, Slovenia, to taste? I know a man likes wine, that's fine. I know he's a patriot, and that's okay. Then why is he secretly taking him along the mountain hills to drink together wine and admire the good wines of Slovenia? As far as I'm concerned, I love Serbian wines, and good wines, wherever they are, but you pretend to be a patriot and everything that's European is foreign to you, as you just said. Well, he can't do both, either one, or the other. I know that sometimes in politics this double game gives a short effect. You're older than me, you have more experience, but I can tell you, as an inexperienced man, that you can never make a long-term success on immorality, and what you do is a difficult form of immorality. You call upon those who have nothing, that they may have, and you have so much money that you have even your daily newspaper, that I do not speak of property. On the other hand, I have to tell you that there really are some boundaries that aren't worth crossing to be in politics, and you've crossed them long ago. I'm not just talking about these lies that you told while you were in the Unique Party, about the incursions to the National Bank, which are why Vukic was sentenced to pay a fine of a million dinars after the trial, but you're repeating it now. What you did yesterday over your list is the bottom of the line, as our people would say. You call upon the grave for me. You call upon my execution. Mr. Nikolic, I can't believe you're ready to go as far as you can, because you can't appreciate me, that you think I'm bad, that I don't know anything, that I'm bad, that I'm bad, like this, and that you're telling me in person, but that you're using a means of public information to call for the execution of any person, that's beneath all the honor. I can only tell you, for you call yourselves a people's man, that the people's proverb should say, "Whoever digs another pit is himself in it." I don't want to, but stop crossing those lines that you've crossed a long time ago. You can call me for anything. Do you call upon this Dinkic when he is the most dishonest man in the land? Well, so as not to believe those readers of yours, when you pay to write that Dinkic is guilty of being this hot in Belgrade, that I am guilty of everything and everything! Of course, it's politics for you and I can understand the limits of politics, but endangering the lives of my family, my associates, I think it's excessive. You don't need that. What do you need that for? You seemed to me like a man with at least that kind of integrity. Going so far is something that's just... I don't know what to say. May it serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21746	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21747	Mr Dinkic, I really didn't read the "Justice" list yesterday, because it's not a party list, it's a private list that's attached to the SNS, but now I'm telling you, in front of the whole Serbian public, I've never wanted anything bad in my life, and I'd nurse you as a little bit of water on your palm just to stay in politics, along with Boris Tadic; it's the only way I can beat Boris Tadic. I apologize if you have connected me in any way to this, I have never in my life wished you harm, except for the political, for you, evil, and for Serbia's salvation, to disappear from the political scene. Don't tell me I want your death. I can't be cold about it, because if you're really convinced of it, and you're not faking it, then it hurts like a man, because I didn't wish for anyone, and I wanted to. If that's how you feel, I know how you feel, I'm sorry, please, I never wished you any harm.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21748	Mrs. Susana Grubjesic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21749	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, I'll deal with the bill, I don't want to continue this debate, I think it's quite said on this subject. With the 2006 constitution, Serbia is conceived as a centralised state, both politically and financially, with the province's scarce competencies and the very small competencies of local self-government. Modern states, in turn, are decentralisationd because experience and theory have shown that a complex state cannot be managed successfully and managed from one center. Vojvodina has received certain powers compared to the rest of the country, so that Serbia today is a centralised state, in which Vojvodina is the only defined region, or autonomous province, while the second province, Kosovo and Metohija, as we know, has been under international administration since 1999 and based on UN Resolution 1244. This system certainly cannot survive in the longer run, as decentralisation, regionalisation and even regional development are a prerequisite for future development of each country, including Serbia. The first concrete step in regionalisation, but unfortunately insufficient, is to adopt exactly this law on regional development, as the objectives of creating such regions should be balanced regional development, a greater degree of competitiveness and functional integration in the environment. This kind of regionalisation does not have political motives, because regions are statistical, not administrative. I've got to kick some ass. Statistical regions are not a condition for Serbia to move closer to the EU, but countries that want to join the EU are expected to align internal division to regionalisation regions within two years of signing the SAA. The European Union does not force any country to do so, nor does it give criteria and suggestions on how to do so, but offers carrots for such a reform, and carrots are European funds. One of the commitments Serbia has made by signing the SAA is to deliver data to the European Commission on the level of gross social product per capita, harmonised at NUTS 2 level of the region, over a period of four years. The existence of a NUTS division in the accession phase allows for more efficient policy-making of regional development, since it provides clear indicators of the state's state of development and thus creates a space for selecting the most vulnerable measures to address regional proportionality and underdevelopment. We need the regions not only to meet the standards and requirements for the allocation of EU funds, but to have the necessary preconditions for the overall development of our economy within one territory. Statistical regions cannot possibly be political regions, as the law does not foresee the formation of regional authorities. You can't see anywhere that the regions will get government, assembly, administrative authorities. Such regionalisation does not involve any autonomy, but the marking of cities and municipalities entering the remit of regional agencies, which will co-ordinate their projects with Belgrade and with EU funds. Euroregion will not be administrative territory, will not have legal subjectivity, but each will have its own regional development agency, which will be in charge of implementing regional development policy. Above regional levels, three more levels of national agencies are foreseen to carry out and control the same area. The government of Serbia, its institutions, will have full control over national agencies, i.e. regional agencies, so that the statistical Euroregion will not have autonomy, even of the funds approved by European funds for regional projects. The regions should themselves develop regional programmes and projects financed by money from European funds, which means developing appropriate administrative capacity, programming capacity and financial management. Statistical regions, already said several times, are formed according to the nomenclature of territorial statistical units of NUTS, which is the new EU statistical model, as the statistical services of the EU candidate countries agreed with Eurostat as early as 1997, which is the Statistical Institute of the European Community in Luxembourg, to establish NUTS nomenclature 5, according to the number of inhabitants, i.e. the size of the territorial community. This was later established by the European Commission Regulation since May 2003. The NUTS country's adaptability makes it easier to join the EU, enables access to structural funding funds for the programmes, which has proved essential for the countries of Eastern and Central Europe. According to the draft law we are talking about today, there are relevant levels 2, that is the region, and 3, that is the area of the nomenclature of statistical territorial units prepared by the Republic Statistics Institute and adopted by the Government. Let me also say something about the EU's regional policy, as little has been said about it today. The main purpose of regional policy is to help less developed regions, help with their development, which should bring the EU's overall development into line. Regional policy also includes cohesion policy, as well as parts of social and agricultural policy and, in a narrow sense, concerns reducing regional differences. As a common EU policy, regional policy was launched in 1975. At the time it was launched, the biggest income difference between developed and undeveloped regions was exactly 7:1, as is the case with Serbia. The most developed region was the province of Hamburg, and the most underdeveloped was Calabria. Today, the lowest income of 271 NUTS 2 regions, as many as there are in the EU, has the lowest income in the Southeast Romania region, with the highest income in London. Regional policy is based on several principles and these principles can be applied without any changes and additions to Serbia. It is, above all, an additionality, which means that, in addition to the Union's funds, national or local governments, they should also secure their share of the funds. The second principle is proportionality, which means more funding is given for projects that are considered more significant. The third principle is a partnership, which means that projects are implemented under the leadership of bodies, which, in addition to the representatives of the Union, are attended by representatives of the interested party, whether by state, region or municipality. Regional policies are implemented by means of funds concentrated in two funds, which are cohesion and structural. In addition to agriculture, these are the largest funds in the Union, which account for 36% of the total Union funds, but for countries such as Serbia, which have not yet won membership candidateship, the Union set up an IPA fund in 2007 – an instrument for pre-accession assistance, replacing, previously, several funds that have been abolished, such as PAR, SEPARD, ISPA, KARC etc. IPA assistance is given for the following purposes: firstly, for building institutions and rule of law, secondly, regional co-operation, thirdly, cross-border co-operation, fourthly, human resources and, fifthly, for rural development. The candidate countries, which are Croatia, Macedonia and Turkey, can apply for funding within all five items, while other Western Balkan countries, Serbia, BiH, Albania and Montenegro can only compete for the first two items -- building institutions and the rule of law and regional co-operation. Statistical regions should gradually learn to manage themselves, so that they can serve as the basis for future political regions. Everything is said in the Condicional – it could serve and could also lead to political regionalisation. This regionalisation of Serbia is still an open issue, although it is increasingly present among lawyers, especially constitutionalists, politicians, sociologists, and most of all among politicians. In the professional public, this idea has both advocates and opponents. That regionalisation leads to federalization, and federalization towards a possible collapse of the state, is one of the basic thesis of opponents of regionalization. Of course, demagogue politicians use much harder words, so every attempt to regionalize is called breaking the state, betraying something and someone, but I won't talk about it much, we've heard a lot about it from my predecessors. Economists express another type of reserve, ask the question – how much will regionalisation cost? The complex system of the organisation of the authorities entails higher costs of administration and funding of work and services at all levels, as well as the danger of jeopardising the single market. I will add that there is also a danger of feudalisation, of provincialization, of strengthening localism of all kinds and of multiplying administration and bureaucracy, but all this is being resolved and prevented by good legal solutions, and even more by implementing these same good laws. There are internal and foreign policy reasons for regionalisation, but problems in Serbia's regionalisation can and must be approached only by looking at the overall territory, inherited experience, the experience of countries that have been past, or by similar problems, and especially in view of the process of integration on the European continent. The existing social and territorial arrangements do not allow the fundamental principle of equality of all citizens of Serbia to be achieved for regional organisation. So far, solutions have given this right only to some citizens, and it is a vertical division of each other's powers, compared to the other. Serbia has since its first constitution, i.e. the first postwar constitution, in 1946, to this day, been an asymmetric state, with two autonomous provinces, Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija, of which the second, as we know, is under the protection of the international community. The territory between is undefined, is often referred to as the rest of Serbia, or remains nameless. Regardless of the fact that this so-called. The rest of Serbia has no such express historical, traditional, cultural, ethnic characteristics as Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija, it must in no way challenge the legitimate right of citizens living in that territory, which connects geography, economy, energy, traffic, natural resources and the like, to regional organisation. Asymmetry is dissatisfied with citizens living in the provinces and those living in the so-called so-called area. the rest of Serbia, because such imbalance is unsustainable in the longer term. This asymmetric status, which was pre-guaranteed only for parts of the territory, was, and now, not to lie, the potential factor of disintegration of state territory. Such unbalanced economic and social development and huge differences between rich and poor areas, 7-1, the differences between the richest and poorest municipalities of 15:1 cannot be reduced without regionalisation and without the transfer of competence to lower levels of government. Local and regional democracy is the basis of a democratic society, as Serbia wants to become at the most recent time. For foreign policy reasons, I'll mention the following. The process of European integration for which Serbia has been defined is inseparable from regionalism. The European Union is now resting on the philosophy of Euro-regionalism as a form of cross-border integration of neighbouring areas, districts or regions. Many countries have been on their way to the EU through the process of structural reforms and adjustments, achieving different regionalisation models. Brussels supports the creation of the region, because they are a prerequisite for using EU funds, both for Member States, those are the structural funds I mentioned, and for candidate countries, they are pre-accession funds. The European Regional Assembly was established back in 1985 and numbers 250 regions from 26 countries in Europe and 12 interregional organisations. The Council of Europe, which Serbia joined in 2003, cited as one of the main tasks as decentralisation of state authorities, improving local and regional autonomy. One of the most important bodies of the Council of Europe, in addition to the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers, the European Court of Human Rights, is the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe. The Council of Europe seeks to influence the regionalisation of European states through this congress, especially the newly admitted countries of Eastern Europe and the Western Balkans. The institutional integration of the region through European institutions opens up the possibility for citizens of these regions to influence European policy-making through their representatives, but such a possibility is given only to Vojvodina, as a member of the Assembly of the European Regions, while so-called The rest of Serbia must priorly be territorially and administratively reorganised in order to gain such rights. So, the regionalisation goal is to ensure greater control of the authorities' representatives and ease of exchange, and, in the end, regionalisation is also a democratic response to the separatist aspirations that could eventually arise in some parts of Serbia. So, to conclude, this statistical regionalisation, in fact, involves no regions in the right sense of that word, but the marking of municipalities and cities that are entering the competences of regional agencies, which will co-ordinate with Belgrade and EU accession funds. As long as the region is not administrative, until it has its own account and its own administration, it is only a geographical area, under the direction of a centralist-oriented state. As far as the G17 Plus party is concerned, we are starting with the fact that Serbian citizens can meet their real needs and interests through the authorities and institutions closest to them, which have the greatest democratic potential, or whose control and exchangeability is easier. All Serbian citizens must have the same right to regional organisation. The vertical division of government in Serbia cannot remain a privilege for one another. To repeat, this means that historic, cultural and ethnic traits that have led to the territorial autonomy of Vojvodina do not mean giving up the right to regionalise other parts of Serbia. The creation of the region should have pragmatic goals, which would benefit society and the state as a whole, but we are all aware of the fact that Serbia's decision on regionalisation cannot and must not be made to a shortcut, but with which it extends political and social consensus, because Serbia must not be a state in which people are divided into the citizens of the first and second order, because all of us living in Serbia have the right to dignity and equal conditions. For such a Serbia, G17 plus advocates and therefore we support the adoption of a law on regional development, as the first, though I repeat, insufficient steps to regionalise Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21750	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the afternoon debate, Mr Dinkic, you said one finding that represents the backbone of our resistance to this law, which is a sentence that the political elite is not up to the regionalisation of Serbia in an adequate and constructive way. You used today's debate about this law, in the afternoon section, for your personal promotion. You've been talking for an hour, and in the first half of the hour, you've been reading what you've sent to us, along with the bill, in an explanation. You didn't have to, the one who was interested in the law, he probably read it. For the other half of the hour, you talked about everything, just not the essence of this law, the essence of the law, which, in its structure, represents its malignant part. When you were talking about the law, it was about the other one, the benign part, which, in principle, is not controversial and is not much worth the attention. The SRS really wants to know if you are ready, and when you will be ready, that as President G 17 plus and Minister of Government, you send a constructive law to this parliament, a law that will not cause controversy and quarrels within the assembly majority, rather than in the highest legislative body in Serbia. Mr. Minister, if in Serbia economic, social, political and all other conditions were ideal, or, if I didn't say ideally, at the level of Switzerland, Germany, Italy, and don't run away from them, the effects of this law, means, I'm abstracting the political disease that this law carries with them, you wouldn't be able to feel more than five years ago. This country, far below the European average, far from European standards, has absolutely no capacity to deal with regional development in the way you predict through this law. The Serbian Radical Party also expressed an extremely negative view of the law in its first few sentences. We believe that the 2006 constitutional solutions absolutely create all administrative, political and any other conditions that all parts, or parts of Serbia, develop evenly. Even when reference is made to the region and regional development, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 84, this is defined only in the geographical context, at least in the political or administrative context. In your absence this afternoon, Mr. Minister, some MPs who discussed as representatives of the parliamentary groups expressed, above all, concern that this was an initiation in state destruction, that was my interpretation, and these were representatives of the Socialist Party, in principle, and the DSS MPs wanted to hear the DS's position on this law. And on one and the other point, that is, after today's interview with your colleague Milan Markovic from the government, the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, no one should have a dilemma. He removed them with the following sentence: "The law is a trigger that will quickly lead us to constitutional changes, to regionalisation of the state in the administrative sense." That's the answer to all, possible, dilemmas both in the SPS and in the DSS or anyone who has made a reservation under this law. We will strongly oppose the debate in principle; we will strongly oppose the debate in particular. We find the law, in the context of the amendment, irreparable. The amendments don't change its essence, and the intention can't change it. That's why through our amendments we've provided for the erasure of all members. You, Mr. Minister, are proposing a law that is, in its essence, the least focused on economic aspects, and mostly on political aspects. But today, in this debate and in explaining you and those who support this law, you are trying in a very perfiduous way to withdraw analogies between regionalisation, regional development, even regional development and decentralisation. If you're essentially dealing with this question, these four categories are four different things, but you've abused them, whether in your political, or someone else's interest, it's time, and maybe this debate, too, to show, in any case, these categories have nothing to do with each other. It is especially pointless and absurd to talk about decentralisation through an extremely centralized law. Through a new model and an administrative concept, you give your party, or the government you belong to, an absolute opportunity to abuse and exploit a very serious and useful area of equal regional development of all parts of this country and some very bad ones, with a bad background, political goals. I don't think this initiative is just yours, it follows a globalist concept of EU institutions, which in this way wants to centralise and that part of the territory of the European continent that doesn't control fully. Later, during this principle debate, we will comment on this through examples, through models used in Europe, through examples and models of regional development agencies of the countries you mention here, which are not exactly arranged as you predict that regional development agencies in Serbia define, from Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Ireland, and so on. We'll deal with it a little later. Our political message in this part of the debate is clear. The law is extremely destructive, it is an initiation in the destruction and collapse of our state tissue, a national being, or Serbia as a whole. We will challenge him from the aspect of the Constitution. The law is unconstitutional and is challenged by the members of the Constitution which you have called upon in your reasoning. The law on regional development in the Constitution justify members where the category of region is not mentioned at all. We accept and respect sustainable development, it makes sense, but you here abuse regional development for politically corrupt and destructive purposes. The law is indeterminate in a nomotechnical sense and, I repeat, extremely destructive. Maybe he is, like some others who have been on the agenda these days, because in such an atmosphere in the government he was adopted. Was it a harmonious atmosphere in the government when you passed this law? A lot of what's happened these days points to doubts about this law. First, the "great President" opened the story of the need for constitutional change, about the alleged reduction of the number of MPs, and then we began to bring into the context of Vojvodina's autonomy with the regionalisation of Serbia, and then you were visited by your friend, the vice president of the United States, and then you held both meetings of the main committee. Then you probably buried the axes around this bill on those boards. I think your main committees are the only institutions where you've had a public debate, a serious public debate and controversy about this law. In some other public debates, seriously engaged people, in the context of regional development, defining the realisation of regional and sub-regional projects, did not really have a chance to give their own court, their opinions. Later, through the story, Mr. Dinkich, you'll recognize what I'm talking about. There are people who will never accept and support your political concept of regulation and regional development and the state, but were leaders of regional sustainable development at the local, regional, or level of two or three administrative districts, just as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, through its provisions and members, defines. This all reminds us of the atmosphere in which the Chamber of Commerce Act was adopted, it's absolutely similar, identical. And there was a problem, here, and now there's a problem here. Today someone said this is the triumph of Mladjan Dinkic and G17 plus. The SRS believes this is a defeat of the rest of the government and an absolute indication of all the weaknesses of the coalition partners of Mladjan Dinkic, or G17 plus. But this is defeat and all of us whose lives you manage, while you pass these laws and while you exercise executive power in Serbia. And you who are doing the government and the assembly majority cannot hide behind Mladjan Dinkic, and your political responsibility is that you did not oppose and that you did not withdraw this law from the procedure, so in some completely different format you brought before the MPs. It'll be good if time shows, God forbid it all comes down to political responsibility. Remember, everything that's going on here suggests that you will bear historical responsibility for this, but let time judge, we, as contemporaries, still can't. Now I'm going to be really rough in a political way. I think there is once again a demonstration of the political insecureness of the coalition partners of Mladjan Dinkic. I'm really interested in whether there's a measure, is there an end to it? What is it that Mladjan Dinkic and G17 plus, so that the rest of the ruling majority, led by DS, cannot oppose the bad laws? More than half of you sitting there do not support this concept of regional development, the concept of creating local and regional pastures. Now the one in Zajecar will understand the needs of that gentleman from Dimitrovgrad, or that man from Kučev. Yeah, right. This is proof that you really do not want to deal with regional development, but all that it should represent is that you want to politicise and compare your cheap political interests, or the interests of those who, definitely and finally, have to be managed by you, and through you and the fates of all of us who live in Serbia. When it comes to the fact that this law represents G17 plus, Mladjan Dinkic, just before Mrs Kalanovic, we consider it expected, on the one hand, and on the other hand, irony. Why is it expected? Whenever destructive legal projects were sent to the Assembly or discussed at any forum, there was Mladjan Dinkic and G17 Plus, from the National Bank, insurance companies, Serbian banks, chambers of commerce. Here, today, Serbia's regionalisation and there is G17 Plus and Mladjan Dinkic. Again, I repeat, there is no will and strength to stand up to all this, but it is much more interesting for this part of the story of irony. Why is the irony of what this law represents and which on behalf of the government is represented by Mladjan Dinkic? Mr. Dinkic, you've been in government for nine years and, in the spirit of today's stories, you've been acceptable to all governments, and, for God's sake, all governments have been acceptable to you. Now he's wondering what the price of all this is? You and your foreigners have been mouth full of even regional development, European values, European standards, pre-accession funds, etc. for nine years. You, exploiting this topic, have completely devalued it and disfigured it in nine years, and the monuments of your insistence on even regional development will be discussed later in the principle debate – we will remind you that in your direction, Serbia seems to be having a balanced development. You today, and after nine years of government in Serbia, give yourself the right to point out the drastic differences between the urban and rich north and the rural and undeveloped south. Here you remind us of the differences and disparities in municipalities, 1:15, and 1:7 at the level of administrative districts, which is truly hypocritical and tasteless, not just for you personally, but for the entire government. Come on, say, "Who is responsible for this? Is it the opposition or you who exercise authority?" Why do we today only have the concept of equal regional development in terms of Serbia? And these were more initiatives coming from local self-government and administrative districts, or from institutions outside, and at least from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and those most responsible for the concept of a balanced economic or, however you will, but in the spirit of the Constitution of development. It's ironic, it's hypocrisy, I repeat, nor in this House can you convince anyone of honesty when it comes to regional development. Of course, I'm saying this abstractly, independently of the political problem this law has itself. At the end of my first presentation, I'll show you just a few more things. The SRS has nothing against the concept of balanced and even development, but it believes that it can and should be implemented on some completely different, above all, political, then economic or other principles. You must, if you want to deal with regional development, balanced development, policy to exclude it from all of this, to leave it to local self-government, administrative environments and other institutions that act, which do not have a destructive character, or those who want to, and can, as their economic interest, recognise partnerships at local level, the county level or at that sub-regional level. This is a completely missed concept. Our proposal and our suggestion is that you withdraw this law and that in a general public debate, providing political consensus, a completely different law on even development, you bring before the Assembly, a law that will be defined and set exclusively on economic principles and interests, not on political interests and politically destructive projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21752	Mr. Minister, come in. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21753	Thank you, Madam President. Here, you've been talking for 20 minutes, and you haven't really said anything. I would really like you to have some specific objections to this law, so we can answer them. You've asked some seemingly mystical questions. I'll tell you -- it's very simple answers. Why should I defend this law today? Because I'm a minister of economics and regional development, because it's been described to me in a government job. I certainly can't defend the law in the field of ecology or in the field of health care. The second question is – why Verica Kalanovic? Because Verica was in the first year of my term as Secretary of State for Regional Development and because she started writing the law, and was completed by current State Secretary Dejan Jovanovic, along with consultants and expert associates from the ministry and outside the ministry. That's the secret. Secondly, for the sake of the public, I would like to say that this law has been unanimously adopted by the Government, that no law, and especially this law, can neither be written nor implemented unless there is unity within the framework of those working together on it, which provides that in national councils there are ministers from various resolutions, precisely because this area is complex. As in the term of one government it will be one name, in some other mandates there will be some other names, but from these multidisciplinary portfolios – from finance, through environment, spatial planning, to construction, or infrastructure, and, of course, regional development. Why hasn't that law been made so far, and why do you say I did something marketing to do? I'm also asking myself, why hasn't it occurred to anyone in the past 20, 30 years that one ministry is assigned to the regional development sector at all? When we formed that previous government, it was the case that we really felt that we needed to have a regional development sector in the government. Just one brief recommendation for you. You keep trying to find something in the ruling coalition, and if we have agreed on this, and if we agree on that. My recommendation, which applies to everything, and to you, whenever you want to solve a problem, rely on yourself. Don't look at others. The other let him solve his problem, you rely on yourself. When you do so, then next time you will cross the censorship in Koserić, as you are not now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21754	Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21755	Mr. Minister, the difference between you and me is, you know what? I've been talking for 20 minutes, and maybe I haven't said, you've been talking for an hour today, nine years terrorizing this country, and you haven't done anything. It would be really good if you showed us what you've done in the spirit of even regional development in nine years. How is it possible that you object to me, and the difference between the Shop and Belgrade is 1-15%? At the Shop, your president of the municipality made his own contract and bought a 50 square-square apartment for 55,000 dinars. These are the principles and manners of G17 plus. You're giving me lessons whether I told you something or not. Explain and explain essentially - why Serbia needs balanced regional development? I'll ask you later - who's responsible for "Zamber" in Vranj? Is that your concept of even regional development? Where did you get the courage to talk about "Junk" after nine years of closing your eyes in front of that factory and fate ten or how many thousands of workers who work there? You are selling fog, Mr. Minister, to the public to both Serbian and this parliament and mine is credible and whatever right to doubt your positive intentions and your relations with the government, because you've been talking one thing all day, and Mr. Milan Markovic is saying another today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21756	Mr. Dinkic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21757	Well, here, to answer for the "Zumber" you mentioned. Of course, it is always the idea and intention of the government to help as many people as possible in Serbia. It is on this basis that a programme has been developed to encourage those who want to employ workers, especially in less developed areas. Some 70 contracts have been approved on that basis for the last three years. One of them was this British firm in Vranj, which was supposed to build a factory and hire people. It was supposed to, it went, it didn't, but the state protected it the following way. For what is given in the form of a subsidy for the construction of a factory, for the purpose of hiring people, as participation of the state, a bank guarantee has been sought. The moment they stopped carrying out their contractual obligations, the threem euros they were granted in the name of the subsidy, they were charged in full. Serbia's budget has returned that money, has not suffered any damage. I agree that the people in Vranje did not get what was promised, but not because the government was guilty, but because, simply, that investor was obviously not serious enough to do the project. However, if you are looking at 70 projects, one just went by in Serbia, and our role was to protect the budget and give an opportunity to those who give a bank guarantee that they can do so. Of those 70, 69 projects worked; they hired people, they got subsidies. The way these subsidies are given is that no one can get ahead of time, but gets on a spoon, which would be said; only when he hires all people will he finally get, and until then, gives a bank guarantee, so that in case he doesn't meet the banking obligation, the state withdraws his funds, so he can't fail that stake. Of course, there's always a question, is it better to try, even if sometimes you don't succeed in one place, you succeed at about 69, or try nothing? There are different philosophies. Some are for it, afraid to try anything, to run anything, and then absolutely nothing happens. That's the answer to "Zamber." As far as the Shop is concerned, the Shop is the poorest municipality. This president of the municipality isn't here for how many years, but he's only been at the head of the municipality for a year. Meanwhile, the children's cot factory has begun to reconstruct itself, has received a loan from the Development Fund, will buy new machines, employ people, have concluded a contract to deliver children's beds "Ikei". We try to help less developed municipalities as much as possible under these circumstances. What we've done now is that two billion dinars, I apologize, two and a half billion dinars, as far as we have in the Development Fund for these 40 most underdeveloped municipalities, we approve of the interest that is only 0.5% a year, which was never so low an interest rate was never, with the idea of helping less developed areas to make it easier for people. Can this solve one ministry and one government, the problem of decades behind in development? He can't. Is there an imbalance in development in other, much richer countries? There is. This is the area where the government responsible has to look for solutions to help balance development. We find these solutions in the law appropriate. Of course, it is never easy to achieve complete success, otherwise you would not have uneven development in Italy or even in Germany. You see how East Germany stands compared to developed parts of Germany. If it were a simple question, there would be no need for specific laws to be passed about it. What I think should be an objective criticism, is to say – that and that member are not right, because of that and that, and we propose that and that. It's something that's a constructive approach. I've already told you that everyone has the right to their views and their own way of thinking, and, in the end of the line, since we're talking about this example that I was just talking about, if you're not in favour of regional even development, my question is, why didn't your party cross the censorship in Koserić, and our party went on its own and crossed it? You can say whatever you want, after all, the citizens in the election say theirs for me and for you and for everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21758	Mr Dragan Todorovic, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21759	I'm advertising Article 101. And now, and in the previous presentation, Mladjan Dinkic expressed himself in an offensive way about the SRS, therefore, I think I have the right to replication. And if I do, give me back my time, since you asked me for an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21760	Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dinkic, you say you didn't recognize the presentation of SRS MP Dragan Stevanovic what he meant to say. You did not recognize, because you did not want to, and the matter is very simple – what lies behind this law on regionalisation of Serbia? Twenty days ago, US Vice President Joseph Biden came to Serbia and he mentioned five regions. You've listed seven here. One of those regions is further and further away from Serbia every day, which is KIM. They've been operating customs at the crossings for a long time, and a new state is being established. Vojvodina, which you only gave your name to, is also trampling in that direction, and you will probably, under pressure, adopt the Statute of Vojvodina in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and it will be a new federal unit, and we will stop at these five regions that you have defined here. Why are we bringing this up? Because we have a very bitter experience when it comes to Serbia and Serbia's interests. You say you're young, you don't remember many things, you don't know many things. As Mladjan Dinkic, you have the right to do so, but you do not have the right as minister. I would remind you of 1971, when amendments were made, in 1974, when the Constitution was adopted and, thanks to the Constitution, Serbia received two tutors on its own territory – Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. At the time, a small number of people were against it, but the people of integrity did. I would remind you of Professor of the Faculty of Law Michael Djuric, who had to go to prison and lose his job because he realized what a step it is for Serbia and what it will mean. Not right away, but, look, we now have a chance to see how fatal it was and how much damage it was. As for the elections in Koseric, Mr Dinkic, or anywhere, above all, I don't remember when you went out on your own, as a party, to parliamentary elections, and in these local elections when you come out, you come out with only one single argument, and these are the loans you promise... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... You give and that's how you buy souls... (President: Time, Mr. Todorovic, please finish. )......................................................................................................... Serbian citizens, to vote for you. When you go out on your own for parliamentary elections, we'll talk, until then, cover your ears.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21762	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Todorovic had the replica, you were neither directly offended nor misunderstood. There's no basis for replication. Here you go, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21763	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing the law on regional development and what is characteristic of the discussions in Serbia is that the most common debate is about what is not the topic of the law on which we are pleading. The majority of these statements were about the issue of regionalisation and decentralisation of Serbia, which neither by content nor by purpose nor by solutions is the topic of this law. Whenever a discussion is held on the issue of regionalisation and decentralisation, there is no doubt that two completely different attitudes are polarized in this assembly. On the one hand, it is those who believe that any form of decentralisation of government and the approximation of power to Serbian citizens means breaking the state, as it is most often said, endangers the country's integrity and integrity. On behalf of the DS Parliamentary Group, I would like to say that, when it comes to regionalisation, we stand for the principle of regionalization, deeply convinced that this principle involves several important things. The first thing is that it allows the original sovereignty of citizens, which they transfer to local self-government, to regional authorities and to the state in a better way and to achieve their essential interests. At the same time, the issue of regionalisation is also important because of the more even development of the country. We deeply believe that a country that contains huge differences in the degree of development is a country that is unstable, is a country where disintegration processes are strengthened, not weak. Since the law we are discussing today is not a law on regionalisation, but rather a law on regional development, I will stick to what this law regulates and what it actually refers to. The reasons for the adoption of this law, in our opinion, are, above all, in the fact that Serbia is a country that is extremely unevenly developed. The relationship between developed and undeveloped regions is 15:1, which by all standards and criteria is considered extremely unacceptable and presents a serious problem in the country's overall economic development. We all know, and that's what everyone here has been saying, these are the facts, that in Serbia, due to uneven economic development, parts of the country are empty, that huge centres are being created that have no capacity to develop naturally, therefore, and the whole country has no capacity and the ability to develop economically faster. We have been defined for Serbia's entry into the EU and all we are doing in this assembly is, among other things, achieving that intention. One of the assumptions of Serbia's faster entry into the EU is even regional development. So this is not only the indirect interest of Serbian citizens, it is also the interest of Serbian citizens because achieving the objectives of European integration is related to balanced economic development. The European Union attaches special importance to the equal development and co-operation of the region in Europe, and this is also confirmed by the fact that it is making huge resources stand aside for the more balanced economic development of the country. In this way, we create legal assumptions that Serbia is creating legal conditions for more balanced economic development, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to allow European integration to approach the funds that are intended for more balanced economic development in the process of European integration. This is where the proposing's intention is questioned, his good or bad intention to abuse something of this law. I would not be particularly concerned with this, because I consider it a purely political category in all our polemics, not arguments, but a political reckoning with political inexperiences. For us, this is a law sent to the Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we have never discussed who is in a formal sense, which the ministry is proposing. The law was passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we view it as the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So this law is not about Serbia's regionalisation, this law is a law on even economic development. What we could ask as certain questions related to this law is the fact that there is a difference in the position of what statistical regions are. While Vojvodina and Belgrade give an opinion, other regions do not have an institutional framework to participate in how funds will be planned and spent in their regions. We believe that this is a matter that is still necessary in the course of this debate to resolve, to find a way to amend and define it, because one reason was that Serbia is a country that has one part of its territory defined by the Constitution, which is defined as autonomy, both political and territorial autonomy, and has more competences and rights when its citizens are concerned than citizens from other parts of Serbia. In our deep belief, the most important issue, which needs to be specified by this law, is how other statistical regions will also be able to influence through some institutional form, how they will be organised, what representative bodies will be, which will also have the opportunity to influence how the region's development plans will be made, and how funds will be spent, which is one of the key issues. Unless the issue is defined, we will not equalise the position of all citizens in Serbia with this law and again citizens in Vojvodina and citizens in Belgrade will be privileged to the citizens of other statistical regions. Indeed, it may be a matter of precision, or definition of Article 1. If this isn't the regional law, then we think Article 1 should look different. Given the need for Serbia to develop more evenly regionally, given the need for Serbia to accept all the values that are in force in the EU countries, which we are seeking, by accepting the fact that the issue of access to funds intended for equal regional development is very important for Serbia, we will support this law, but we think that some of these issues to the day of adoption of the law must be defined, in order, first of all, to remove the dilemma of what this law is and, secondly, in order to remove this unequal position of Serbian citizens living outside Vojvodina and outside Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21764	Thank you. We move to a debate in order to apply for the word of the MPs. The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21765	I can say that for us, this law is acceptable and that we will vote for it, because it has been the programme definition of our coalition for 20 years, because for 20 years we have been talking about regionalism being a solution for Serbia, the right solution in the political, economic, social, health sense, in all the parts where the state, according to the principles of the EU organisation, needs to come out of some kind of centralisation, that is, the way the EU does. I would like to remind you of the European Commission's recommendation, addressed to countries 10, before Bulgaria and Romania, have entered Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and these 10 countries. The European Commission, about a year and a half before their entry, wrote a recommendation and directed it to these countries. She said these are what they say are "good experiments" - good experiences of European member states, which have had this experience for decades. The key recommendation is that the decentralised and regionalised state recipe for one country's stability and cohesion. You have many examples. Today is the most stable state, the image of stability, Switzerland, which has 26 cantons. You have Austria, you have Italy, you have all the other countries that they have, somewhere they're called regions, they're called provinces somewhere, they're called cantons, you can call them whatever you want, but that means a decentralised state, or a state that's passed on to regions, municipalities of many powers, where citizens can participate and feel like political factors and influence their socio-economic development. Today in the UN, the Commission on Human Rights, talks about the fundamental human right to socio-economic development. So the individual has a fundamental human right to do it. In our last constitution, we predicted that the state would take care of regional development. (Dragan Todorovic, from town: Give us this right. We started, just a little bit... (President: Mr. Todorovic, please do not disturb the speaker. ) (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I agree with the predecessor. ) (President: You do not have to express consent in this way, interfere with the speaker and disrupt the atmosphere. Go on. ) Therefore, this good experience in the EU and what we have heard here today is why we will vote for this law, and that is to get to pre-accession funds and all those funds that are meant for regional development, and I would say those projects for cross-border regions. Because we don't have defined regions, we don't get hundreds of millions of euros today for projects of cross-border regions, and projects of cross-border regions have their own economics, I can say, and the political character, what matters to us with the countries of the former Yugoslavia -- to set up cross-border regions, to fund the EU, and to in some way affect the overall development. I'm sorry Mr. Jovanovic isn't here. He, as well as a few MPs from the opposition who are here today, discussing the regional development law, mentioned that Mr. Ugljanin was supposed to be the legislator of this law. I would like to remind you that Mr. Ugljanin is a minister without portfolio, that the ministry is proposing a law and that people should know the Law on Government and Ministry. Secondly, I wanted to tell Mr Jovanovic, after 2000, he was Deputy Prime Minister and then, as an opposition, I asked him to draw up a report on a few billion dollars that we received from the EU, how far it went into underdeveloped areas. In fact, very little, or not at all. What's important now, what we missed back then, is that when we get to these pre-accession funds and these statistical regions, the way they are, we have control of these funds, that these funds are directed to the most underdeveloped regions, because that's the essence of this story. And it is no accident that Mr. Jovanovic left, as well as colleagues from his options that spoke about Priboj, the care, everything he could do for Priboj, for Novi Pazar, Sjenica, for Tutin, for the Shop. As Deputy Prime Minister, he had an absolute majority, two-thirds had in this parliament to change the constitution, to pass a law on regional development, to return property to municipalities. He didn't do any of that. On Sunday, he received confirmation from citizens from Zemun, Vozhdovac, Koseric, so it will pass everywhere in Serbia. In the last election, he received several councillors in the entire Sandzak region. As regards the cost of the Office for Sustainable Development, which has powers in this regard, the Office and Mr Ugljanin, because he was worried that Mr Ugljanin cost the government a great deal, to inform you, in 2008, the Office for Sustainable Development spent 18 million dinars and I, as a national MP, said that in the Republic of Serbia's budget, for sustainable development and the Office, needed much more resources. That's what I'm looking for right now, in budget rebalancing. Now the office has 154 million, 40 and some municipalities have responded to a competition that has been called by the people in this office, they will receive funds for project documentation for certain projects. Our opinion is that the RS government, in terms of sustainable development, especially 40 of the most underdeveloped municipalities, should form a special fund for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas. I expect that, when we propose, we get support and positions and opposition, to be a good fund, a strong fund, to be one of the funds that will apply to the EU and agree on this issue. The question has been asked – what is Mr. Ugljanin doing? With 18 million in last year, you know what he could do; in the first four months, from January to April, he spent seven million dinars. What did he do the other day? Two months, the director of the Air Force Directorate failed to resolve the 200,000 tourist issue that wants to fly to Turkey, and Minister Ugljanin has resolved the issue and since yesterday, our tourists have been flying to Turkey. The minister was in Turkey the other day, our Minister Dinkic, and I would like to commend that, along with Mr Ugljanin, he made a loan to Eksim Bank... (President: Your time is up, so you'll have to finish thinking. You have eight minutes and 24 seconds. Finish your thought. ) I would like to say that this credit arrangement agreed by Mr Dinkic, in collaboration with Mr Ugljanin, is an important thing for Sandzak and road reconstruction and to remind you that there will be no foreign investment in Sandzak, nor in the most underdeveloped areas, because there is no infrastructure. Why is there no infrastructure? Just because we don't have a consensus at the state level.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21766	Thank you. Mrs. Judita Popovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21767	I would just like to remind Mr. People's MP that in the time he spoke of, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic was Deputy Prime Minister and also a member of the DS, if I recall correctly. I would remind you that you are currently in the coalition with the DS. So if Cedomir Jovanovic was Deputy Prime Minister, he could only act as one of the team members. Therefore, all others who did the coalition government are equally responsible for everything that happened during the time period from 2000 to 2004. Obviously, you've forgiven everything and forgotten, as the forwarding of funds to undeveloped regions is, when you so warmly came to this coalition where you are at the moment. Therefore, I believe there is no reason to be misunderstood in any way and to treat the situation then and then the influence of Mr Cedomir Jovanovic in the government of the late Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21768	Mr. Omeragic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21769	I'm sorry the vice president of the assembly didn't understand what I said. I didn't say Cedomir Jovanovic wasn't a member of the DS. Probably one of the reasons why he's no longer a member of the DS is because I asked – why he didn't invest in underdeveloped areas? May I remind you, are you in charge of the Democratic Party in Belgrade, are you in coalition with her? Whenever I'm late here, like 126, your three MPs are waiting to put their cards on, ma'am. Let me tell you, the office spent 18 million dinars. Sandzak citizens voted for the European option, not for 18 million or 100 million dinars. That's what I'm trying to tell you. We weren't blackmailing this government that Suleiman Ugljanin has two or three billion budgets. If he were lucky, he would have, we hope, but I'm telling you, the Sandzak citizens want a developed Sandzak, a developed Shumadi, a developed Vojvodina and all the regions. That's what we stand for. I finally missed one thing. If we were talking about statistical regions, maybe the regions should have defined themselves as the north, and as the south, and as the northwest, that none should have been named after any territorial unit. That was our opinion. It would be easier for the citizens of Sandzak, or for the forest, or for someone else to explain why some have a territorial, geographical name, and some have a north-west. However, given that it is really statistical regions, it is not a dilemma for us, because we discussed it yesterday and today, and we will be working on getting a new law on the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible, and that we clearly define it there. As far as the county is concerned, I'm asking the government to make a decision, or a regulation on the county's schedule to replace it. Here, take a look at the county map in the Republic of Serbia. It was then by the government because of the majority system and more about the election decision than about the districts. The session is conducted in one region, Prepolje in the second, in the third – Tutin. What do I want to tell you? Just look at the map, one district has the shape of a snake, the other – square, the third – rectangle, the fourth one looks like a mountain, the sixth one on the valley. These are the unnatural associations of these municipalities and, worst of all, no one, ever, by passing that regulation, asked if those municipalities wanted to enter that district. I don't think that's a big deal and that it can be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21770	Thank you. The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21771	Dear Presidents, respected Serbian citizens, the very name of the proposal for a law on regional development represents a kind of logical and Semantic nots. How can the law define development? Mr. Minister, I don't want to be too dangerous. I would ask that you honor me and wait here, and you, President, do not refuse me this time until we see if the minister will attend or not. (President: Mrs Kalanovic is here. Here we go again. ) The very name of the proposal for a law on regional development represents a kind of logical and Semantic nonsensus. How can the law define development? How the law presents a set of norms, i.e. a system of rules that determines the behaviour of individuals to each other and towards the social community, and development – sustainable, regional and socio-economic, represents a process and a state which, above all, is governed by the state, rather than by the citizens and individuals themselves, remains unclear as this law is addressed in general, to whom it is addressed. Is this the state's law that will regulate its own behavior? Does this mean that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development has no confidence in his colleagues, e.g. from the Ministry of the NIP and the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, or perhaps Minister Dinkic does not trust his fellow minister without portfolios in charge of balanced regional development? Perhaps the minister is aware that even in his ministry, IPA funds are being abused, so he would put the sector under additional control. Is this law proof that individual ministries and institutions in Serbia are not doing their job? He explained that it is necessary through this law and through the formation of institutions that he envisions the unity of all who have so far been engaged in regional planning and regional development, so that Minister Dinkic would become some kind of modernator and head of other ministries, institutions and agencies. The impression that comes after the analysis of the Regional Development Law proposal is that Minister Dinkic is in a great hurry because he needs to take control of the funds, therefore, the money, where the money is – there is also the G17, which will be able to be obtained from the EU, which is intended for the development of the region. The regionalisation of one state is a complex issue and concerns both administrative and legal functions, which are not subject to this law. By way of regionalisation, inter alia, the establishment and decentralisation of the state, by transferring certain functions from national to regional. The regional level, in this sense, is a link between local and national authorities, i.e. countering the centralist tendencies of the state apparatus, because the municipalities themselves are not strong enough to oppose it. However, the regions, as defined by the law, represent only an extended state hand. Trends of mixing concepts, multiple functions and mixed competences are just continuing and confirming this law. Why is it not possible to establish a new administrative division of Serbia first, so that laws concerning certain continents are passed in accordance with it? Although Serbia has already experienced the consequences of poor administrative divisions, which it has been exposed to in the past century, even today authorities are not ready to discuss the issue more seriously. The administrative division of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1931, when a decision was made on the division of the country into banks, among other things, resulted in Serbia's territorial dispersion. Then three of Serbia's most vital spatial works, Podrinjska, Zlatiborsko-rakski and the Kosovo-South Sea, were found within other territorial continents and were simply removed from the queen, both in ethno-anthropological and socio-economic terms. The second interesting division took place in 1949, when the entire republic was divided into eight regional areas: the city of Belgrade, two autonomous provinces, Vojvodina and Cosmet, and five areas. As far as is known, Vojvodina and Cosmet have received autonomy, but regionalisation of central Serbia has never been achieved, even when, after 1970, so-called. the inter-municipal regional communities. Except for the statistical registration of phenomena, it is not clear what was the objective of this regionalization, when it is known that two basic things, the outflow of the population and the outflow of income, were not prevented. In the light of such examples, it is completely unclear what this current division of regions can do. At some point Einstein thus defined stupidity – repeat one action in the same way and expect a different outcome. Respected citizens of Serbia, due to the shortness of time held by the New Serbia Parliament Club, I will give a few more arguments why New Serbia's MPs will not give confidence and will not vote in favour of the bill. You know, statistics can show everything, depending on the political factors that are in power and which you need statistics on. Do I need to remind you that in the last decade, the rulers of Serbia have said that we have bigger growth than the state of Japan? Therefore, it should be made clear to the Serbian citizens that this is no decentralisation, that this is no regionalisation, that this is a waste of fog and dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens, to avoid a debate on the Statute of Vojvodina that is not unlawfully put on the agenda here, to employ the staff of G17 plus. Does anyone remember the People's Offices of the President of the Republic? Does anyone remember who the director of the National Office was, and I know about 23 cities where these people's offices were opened? If MPs, against the interests of citizens, support this law, above all, I mean the ruling coalition and MPs of the ruling coalition, some offices will be formed again, in fact, party branches, where G17 personnel will be employed, and all of these will be paid by Serbian citizens. As an inheritance, the AP Vojvodina issue is also accepted, and this leads to another illogicality, that is, the contradiction of this law. It is said that regions are a functional category, without administrative and legal elements. The question arises, then why is the basic criterion for their definition of the existing administrative division of Serbia? Then why are the regions composed of areas defined by the existing borders of the administrative districts? Mr. Omeragic, let me tell you, under this law which you will support and which you will vote for, you no longer live in Sandzak, you live in the Central region. That's what you need to understand. That's what the law says. If we don't know enough ourselves, some people learn from mistakes and smart ones learn from their mistakes. Not to look at neighbouring countries, to look at BiH, as it is arranged. Are there regions in that country? Yeah. The country is composed of Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. The Federation is made up of I don't know how many cantons. Just to remind both you and the citizens of Serbia and all the MPs that the Federation recently went bankrupt, that there is no idea how many governments, how many congregations, or how many MPs they have. Therefore, the adoption of such laws is a dangerous thing for the citizens of Serbia, first of all, Serbs, I must say openly; it is a call of separatism, the formation of new states and the fulfilment of the conditions of Europe and of those who were 20 days ago for further splitting and dispersing of our country and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21772	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ivan Andric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21773	It's an incredible morale of the ruling coalition, based all day, when it's trying to present this law to us as some kind of progress, and it's particularly an amazing statement from this gentleman who's been a member of all governments since 2000 to today. You, to remind you, were not personally, but as a party, in all governments, in every government since 2000 until today. You always have a grudge over the last one. So far, you've always had something to say wrong about the previous one, which, I guess, justifies your position in this one. Now that you have these faces, it won't help us forget how, firstly, illegally, in our time, you became Secretary of State and People's Parliament, and the first decision you made was to assign your official car and go to Novi Pazar, to remind you. Hence our suspicion of the Suleiman Ugljanin budget, it's based on experience, sir, it's not based on I don't know what our assumptions are either. The second thing, as far as your commentary of the election is concerned, it is your right to judge our success however you wish, is our right to participate, but at least we are participating and not departing from what we always say, from 5 October 2000 to today. We're not one day with Kostunica, another day with radicals, or advances here, our third day is a good DS again. What prompted me to report is one of your findings, which speaks so much about your policy that there is no need to comment further, which is that you, as far as I know, are the only man to have ever accused the government of Zoran Djindjic and the government from 2000 to 2003 of not working on Serbia's Europeanisation. I really congratulate you on that. It's probably a unique attitude you have. Now I'm going to pay attention to what you still have to tell us, although I don't know how you get a word for it at all. That's what I'd like to ask the President of the Assembly to explain. If I'm not mistaken, there was a replica on the line just now, so I'd just like to pray that we get the same right as the MPs of the ruling coalition do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21774	There's no replica on the replica. Mr Tomislav Nikolic is advertising his Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21775	I recognized myself in exposé of the predecessors, after accusing Mr. Omeragic of being both Secretary of State and People's MP at the same time. Since I was chairman of the Administrative Board at the time, I claim that this is not true, that everything has been done in accordance with the law. I don't accept criticism from the representatives of the national minority party that he's been to every government. I wish our representatives of the national minorities were in every government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21776	Please, we're doing very serious legal matter. It's a very important law. You're right about the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21777	Mr Markicevic, it is not a replica of the replica. I have one thing to say. (President: Just say which member of the Rules of Procedure, please. ) This best, Article 104. I want to say one thing. Mr. Andric, remember when someone on the Bosniak list was having an affair with Mr. Jovanovic. Today, it deals with Mr. Ugljanin, whether he is able to be in that government or not, how much he spent the funds and how much the budget of the Office for Sustainable Development is, and why he is not a proposing. However, you have no reason at all and no one has challenged you to this controversy, nor have we ever dealt with your party. I had to answer what Mr. Jovanovic asked, and that's what I answered. As for something Mr Markicevic said, whether the citizens will be in Sandzak or not, it does not regulate this law. We said these are statistical regions and they don't have regional parliaments, they don't have regional institutions; they'll be agencies, they'll be advice, but they're not representative bodies, something we have in most European countries, and that kind of decentralisation will follow. Therefore, in the end, I would like to tell the LDP MPs that the Bosniak List has never been particularly concerned with the LDP and that Mr Jovanovic has not begun to deal with Mr Ugljanin and that is not what Mr Andric was saying, I would not speak either. Now the president of the former board of directors has said. I'm telling you, you've got more to do than deal with the Bosniak List. We're a minority list. All minorities in Europe have an interest. There's something else you didn't say. We weren't in the government in 2000. You said we were in all governments. Minorities have a life's interest in integration... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in all state institutions and as far as Zoran Djindjic is concerned, he was our friend and we had the best relationship with the late Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21778	Now there's been more of you. It's probably a replica. There was nothing offensive, you have no right to a replica. Mr Markicevic, on what basis are you answering? He didn't insult you with anything. [[(Intruder from the site, Ivan Andric: Not offensive, but incorrect. He mentioned me.]] He didn't insult you, there was nothing vague about it. Mr. Andric, you have the word "injuring the Rules of Procedure" here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21779	Please don't do that. You gave the gentleman your word, in response to Markicevic. First, the name he mentioned was mine. It's an injury. You should have warned him if you wanted him to stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21780	Mentioning a name is not a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21781	But it is the interpretation of my words, according to Article 104. You're misreading what I said. It's a basis for replication. First of all, it's surprising that you can't even remember what you said five minutes ago. We didn't mention any of you. It is unnatural for us that the minister representing the national minorities and director of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Office for Sustainable Development is not proposing this law and is not here today. It's unnatural. If you think it's natural, then say it. You, in response to our criticism of a banal thing, Cedomir Jovanovic spoke for 20 minutes, and that was one sentence, came down Furiously and some kind of attack there, I don't know what. In your eight-and-a-half-minute speech, you talked about us for eight minutes, and then, after five minutes, you said you never mentioned us. That's really amazing. What we've said is that it's unacceptable for someone to be in all governments by now. You may not have been formally seated, sir, in the government, but hiding behind a coat of national minorities... Well, if anyone backs any action or any idea of protecting national minorities, it's our party, so it's pointless to hide behind that when you're having an affair with us. Think about it, if you are giving us advice to think about what to do, what rights you represent when Tomislav Nikolic defends you from the LDP. Think about your position, sir. It may be a success for you, I don't want to get into it, but if we redefine our positions, then redefine yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21782	Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21783	I am also reporting under Article 104 - the dignity of the Assembly. Today, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic did not criticise Mr Ugljanin only because he is a member of a national minority, but because we have a duplication of functions, duplication of ministries, duplication of agencies, everything proposed by this bill. In the LDP, it is really not clear to us what some ministries, some agencies, or offices for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, if we establish some new agencies, some new advice, all that additionally consumes the budgets of the Republic of Serbia. Also, we think it is hypocritical that someone advocated the rights of national minorities and the participation of members of national minorities in the government of RS, and represented one policy that led to large halls in the Sandzak region in the 1990s, both the North and Strbac, and Kukurovic, and all those disasters that my fellow citizens in Priboj were exposed to in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21784	You cannot call on the same breach of the Rules of Procedure and the same content multiple times. I'm warning you, or I'm going to have to say the measures. I'll give you a measure if you speak on the same subject. So I'd better not give you my word. You have your word, Mr. Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21785	I'm advertising an article. and 103 and 106. Indeed, there is no greater injury to the dignity of the congregation than to invent and talk about 90 years of this kind of dictionary. No one here spoke of Cedomir Jovanovic as having a negative attitude towards national minorities, nor did anyone mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21786	Mr. Omeragic, I give you a warning. You speak exactly the same way. Please, I give you a warning, you have no word. Mr Tomislav Nikolic. What's the base of the call? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21787	You injured, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Rules of Procedure, Article 100, when Mr. Andric said, he objected to Mr. Omeragic that he should be pictured over the fact that I defend him as a representative of the national minority. You're missing it, just like nothing's happening in the assembly. I don't know what Mr. Andric meant. On what basis does he discriminate against people, that some can defend members of national minorities, and some cannot? I'd like to defend Mr. Andric by some of his credentials. I'm really ready to defend everyone, regardless of their commitment, let alone the membership of a minority or a nation. Therefore I ask you to protect me from these, this is not an atmosphere for the People's Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21788	I don't think you need any real protection. I really didn't realize that anyone had an attack on you, and you seem to have a lot of strength and you don't seem at all fragile. Mr. Markicevic, come in, on what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21789	Madam President, I didn't know how else to get the word. I was looking for a replica. Some fellow MPs received it three or four times. If you'll excuse me, I'm ready for a warning, and it's for people, MPs, just to draw attention to Mr. Omeragic that he didn't understand me very well. I'm Cachanian, some say Grbic. I may also be of origin, but I'm not a member of the Western region, as you Sandzaklia are, I say, Raška area, and you're not a member of the Central region. I'm surprised the Shumadins are quiet here. I'm surprised. I'm worried about you, too, ma'am, and I think you're proud of yourself for being a Shumadinian. I think you'll be the first to come forward as a member of the Parliament to discuss, and here we are reduced to statistics. You know, when it comes to regionalization, it's not just about territory. That, first of all, applies to people. It is true that there is a European Commission's recommendation in 2008 on countries in transition and regional creation, but the one who prescribed this law, or those recommendations from the EU, has not been well prescribed, has forgotten one part – that these regions must also have their legal and administrative capacity. This is just the letter on paper, Mr. Omeragic, and for the employment of the current ruling parties, members of the ruling parties, and, as Mr. Nikolic said, we don't know what the day is and what the night is. When they lose the election, and I hope it's very soon, they'll lose that undeservedly earned job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21790	The statistical regions are in no way related to the violation of Parliament's dignity, and I could not detect a causal and consequential relationship. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21791	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable ministers, Mrs Kalanovic, the respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, must be one of the most important legislative proposals the Serbian Parliament is considering this year. The importance of this law is great, because in Serbia there are major problems with regional development. I would like to say that in principle we will support this legislative proposal, because we consider it the first step in Serbia to approach these problems in one system way, with the first step in relation to the importance of the issues that they want to address. Also, I would like to say that any proposal aimed at ensuring a balanced development of Serbia as a whole, any proposal aimed at a more balanced economic development, a reduction of existing regional proportionality and proportionality and faster economic development, and that, in doing so, does not mean that Serbia's federalisation will always have the support of the SAA. There are a lot of reasons why they wanted to pass one of these laws. I'll only come up with some that I think are particularly important. Today, four out of six Serbian citizens live in cities. This is due to the industrial development of the country so far, and long-standing agricultural neglect. When we talk about the territory of the whole of Serbia, it is divided into endings that are very underdeveloped, poor and without people, then, cities and districts that barely survive, and cities where the situation is somewhat better, such as Belgrade or Novi Sad, which, in one word, came across during this transition period. The differences in the development of certain parts of Serbia are expressed through several very, in our opinion, essential characteristics – the economic backlog of undeveloped areas, the demographic discharge of the entire rural area and the large intra-regional concentration of the population in cities, and completely uninhabited settlements in undeveloped parts of Serbia. On this basis, we can say that Serbia today is the country with the largest regional differences, and by many indicators, not only in the Balkans, but also in Europe. This is confirmed by the fact that the number of underdeveloped municipalities has doubled and that some 30% of our country's population lives in conditions of insufficient development. The extreme differences between the underdeveloped and developed parts of our republic are extremely high. The ratio, for example, between the most developed and underdeveloped areas, measured by national income per capita, was, for example, 11:1 in 2003, and today, as we heard, 15:1, which is a very serious problem for the country and its stability, too, and further development. Therefore, when we consider the objectives and scopes of this law, we need to respect one difficult problem, which is that the entire industrial base, which was once the motor power of development of certain parts of the country, today in major economic problems and looking for better solutions, are either to start with the Borski base, Leskovec, Kraljev, Nis, or, let's say, from my Valjev, the Neighbouring Capac and Loznica. We face another division, because we have a large division that separates cities from villages, but also divides in the cities themselves, which separate cities from their suburban settlements, and that is the general characteristics of Serbia. Normally, not only villages, but cities also have major problems, communal, public and other services that should work in the citizens' interest. If we want to continue to talk about the reasons for such a legislative proposal, they are more than those listed, they are more than even those who are presented in the light of this law, but what we consider to be the fundamental intention of this law, it is the definition that Serbia should redevelop its entire territory, because it is unacceptable to allow so many villages and agricultural municipalities to fail, as this would ruin Serbia's great developmental chance in agriculture, as a major producer of healthy food, development of tourism and services. By measuring the value of these legal solutions in relation to the problems raised, I think we can agree that the objectives are well set. When it comes to the principles of incentives for regional development, two things are particularly important – decentralisation in doing business and the principle of concentration of financial resources, in order to actually achieve maximum effects. What I think is not clear enough is two expressions, with the corresponding consequences – regions and areas. When it comes to regions, it is understandable that a European orientation is used here, but if we look at Serbia's history in the management of the territory, I think that our area is considered a whole range of territory from the region. I note this more, believing that European values should be respected, but also respect the tradition Serbia has. My opinion is that the big question is whether the regions, as stated in the law, will be just a statistical space, because I don't think it's realistic, or whether it will be economic, and tomorrow, perhaps, politically. It might be more useful to discuss issues of decentralisation of Serbia, linked to this law. On the other hand, it should be pointed out once again that the draft of this law was made in accordance with European regional policy standards, and that this is an obligation arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically, from the provision on equal and sustainable regional development, and, of course, the obligation arising from the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement. When it comes to the degree of measurement of regional development and local municipalities, I think it's correct. As for the development documents, the law shows that there will be many. The issue of coordination and synchronisation is a very open question. When it comes to regional development entities, it is seen, according to the institutions listed, that there are many. I'm afraid we're not multiplying the institutions and their administration. I think it is a very open question – how will the function of the ministry and newly established institutions be synchronised, I mean agencies. In financing, two are sources, domestic and international. Perhaps it would be better if it were more encouraging, in a certain way, to have a public and private sector partnership, which today is very much applied in Europe, though, where we do not have, or we have some bad experience. Essentially speaking, this legislative proposal should, in fact, create an opportunity for competition, when it comes to EU development funds, pre-accession funds, and later structural funds, which we believe is extremely important, if it has in mind what is heard, among other things, that by 2013, there will be 231 billion euros for undeveloped regions and 41 billion euros for developed areas. However, the legislative proposal does not make it clear that there will be redistribution of funds. As I said at first, this law is necessary, but it must be followed by a number of other development documents, projects, a good organization, in order to have success in one, I thus understand it, a completely new policy. I would like to say, at the very end, that we believe that the fact that this very important legislative proposal, over the past period, has been a high quality public debate and, indeed, we want to believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal will allow Serbia, above all, to be decentralised, in order to make important decisions concerning economic development, above all, at the level of the region. We want to believe that this legislative proposal will allow citizens to play a greater role and participate in making decisions for the environments in which they live and work and that much better than so far will be seen local needs, and that it will allow better co-operation with EU regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21792	Thank you. Mrs. Judita Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21793	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP cannot support this law. There are several basic reasons that have defined us not to give consent to this law. First of all, since 15 October 2008, we were looking forward to reaching the agenda of this assembly of the Statutes of the AP Vojvodina. With greater impatience, we have been waiting for the law to arrive to determine the jurisdiction of the Duke. Since October, the Statute, which was otherwise a sublegal act and which had to be brought into line with the Constitution by the end of 2008. However, it is obvious that the government does not even respect its own constitution, so the Statute has not yet arrived on the agenda, let alone been discussed by the end of 2008. Therefore, if we agree that the Statute and the Law establishing the jurisdiction of Vojvodina have nothing until the end of this year, then we can continue to discuss this law on regional development. Obviously, she felt the need to put this law on the agenda, if no serious decentralisation is being done, which in some way would draw attention from the serious problem in which Serbia is located, because Serbia, back in the 20 years, is a seriously centralised state and that centralisation is literally cemented by the 2006 Constitution. When we advocate EU values, it is not enough to be purely declarative. Advocating decentralisation without any serious shift in this matter is only a declarative commitment to European values that determine the decentralisation of a country. Without decentralisation, there is no serious and valid involvement of citizens in the governance of one state, in the management of their own destiny, above all, at the local level, where it is most needed to have participation in the authorities and to decide how his life will become serious and take place. This law on regional development, in the opinion, mostly of all today's participants in the debate, does not refer to decentralisation, does not refer to regionalisation. In fact, it all comes down to statistics, but also, as the law provides, the territory of the area and the region is determined by the Republic Bureau of Statistics. Is that serious? In doing so, Article 2 of this Law provides precisely what the objectives of the law, which are quite serious objectives – targets that are affecting socio-economic sustainable development, reducing intra-regional parities, reducing negative demographic movements, etc. I would like to remind the Government, the legislator and the ruling coalition that we already had certain agencies and certain institutions dealing with regional development, sustainable regional development, etc. These are, for example, the Republic Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship, the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, the Development Project Implementation Sector. The responsibility of all of them shall be assumed by the Agency for Regional Development. Now we come into a situation where we need to sort things out, whether it's statistical regions or whether it's some kind of decentralisation. If we accept the variant that this is about decentralisation and regionalisation, I would call it octrossed regionalisation, in a centralised way controlled by decentralisation, and thus we get a result that cannot be satisfactory and does not go in that direction that should move the territorial organization of this country. Unfortunately, by the current laws and by the Constitution, we have both provinces and administrative districts, we have local self-government, we have cities, we just still lack these statistical units, statistical regions, for which the law specifically indicates that they have no administrative significance, that they have no more serious meaning, but, nevertheless, they represent one territorial continent. When it comes from how these statistical territorial regions will function, we get another worrying picture of how central Serbia is in fact. In fact, if we start from Article 5, he says the regions are determined by the government, on a proposal from the authorities responsible for statistics affairs. When we start from the stage of regional development and local self-government units, Article 7 also says that the degree of development of St. 1 and 2 of this member, once a year, is determined by the ministry of regional development. Article 8 when it talks about the methodology for calculating the degree of development of the region and the unit of local self-government, it also says the government is responsible for the methodology. When we talk about a single list of developments, who determines that list – Government. When the National Plan is established, who determines it – the Ministry. When it comes to regional strategy, who is therefore in charge – the government brings it. When we talk about the programme of financing the development of the region, who is in charge – the government. Other development documents, Article 8 – Government and regional development entities, Article 19 – Government, etc., Art. 24, 25, 27, 29, 30, etc. Therefore, this law probably had to be proposed, in order to show European partners that, behold, Serbia intends to do some kind of decentralisation and regionalisation, it is written, there are really some elements that talk about that some intention existed, but when all these members that are part of the law are read, it is obvious that it is a document that is solely based on a centralised way of controlling, first of all, the funds that are intended for this regional development. If, literally, disable the one in local self-government, or those in regions that make up regions to influence the way they plan, compete with projects for these funds, and in doing so yourself, who are you going to indicate these funds to, this kind of regional development can be expected, why are you so optimistic that you will achieve equal regional development? In these areas, back in the 50-60s, there was a lot of talk about more developed regions and less developed regions, a lot of talk about solidarity, about having to help, and what's been going on all these years? Generally, there remained diversity, there remained a difference in the development of many regions in Serbia. What are we going to do with this bill, this law? Anyway, nothing, but I think you expected this way, first of all, to prove some of your Europeanism, some of your definition of European standards. I can tell you that the trend in Europe is precisely to decentralisation in all countries, to be a serious decentralisation. If you felt that this could not be done without constitutional changes, then it is no reason to pass this law, because this law only draws attention from the serious problem that exists in this country. I'd like you to explain to me how you think, in this law, I didn't find it, that the local self-governments that are interested in certain projects, which are purely their projects, you educate, learn what criteria are needed to meet in order to even participate with their projects in front of some European IPA fund committee, how will they be able to withdraw, control, direct where they need to go? There's nothing in the law. There's no word on how you're gonna do it. Therefore, if everything is left to some future regulations, and we have very bad experience with regulations and this Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which are often unconstitutional, illegal, contrary to the law, we cannot trust that this will be realised as provided for in Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21794	Thank you. In the words of Mr. Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21795	Thank you. Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why is this law important? When I read this law, I had a few keywords that came to me and I wrote down to conceive this speech, and these key words are – the economic growth of infrastructure, employment and greenfield investments. Today I read the news that IKEA will invest in Serbia with its Greenfield investment. What does a greenfield investment have to do with even regional development? Well, to attract any greenfield investment, you have to have developed infrastructure. What's the problem of the region and what's developed and undeveloped in the region can recognize the region itself, the municipalities, the man who lives here in that space. That greenfield investment, if you have developed infrastructure, will come to your region. It will, in particular, employ 2,000 people in the case of IKEA, create chains of producers that are associated with small and medium-sized enterprises, which will work for this production system, place the product, export will be ours. To reach that mile, the investment-friendly place, the ministry has done a lot to provide a framework. This framework implies that, through free association in chambers, among other things, and regional producers, in principle volunteering, we have facilitated company registration, which lasts very briefly, a Fund for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises has been created to help individual producers. I say to the individual, because you have to take responsibility, you can't rely on the state, the state can't finance or create factories, as I heard in one speech today, which is a completely wrong logic. If you want to take responsibility, then you can't cut your finger, for the simple reason, because you need all 10 fingers to develop your business and you can fight. The state must provide a framework for this free market fight, which is governed by clear and defined rules, which we standardise with laws. By law on regional development we define statistical regions and the biggest problem in this country was – what is a developed region, and what is not, how do we recognize what is and what is not developed and what is guaranteed for it? In this law, the basic advantage is the recognition of these regions, which is the NUTS nomenclature, defined by EU statistics standards, that is, its specialised Eurostat organisations. I will remind you that the EU has gone the farthest in its regional policy, its regional development fund, recognising that balanced regional development best guarantees safe economic development, starting from individual to general, starting not from the even development of countries as members of the EU, but from what is the soul of each country, starting from the street, the municipality, the region, the area, the province. This is best discussed by the objectives of this law, which are well defined. Encouraging the development of underdeveloped industrial and rural areas is an objective. We have a strategy whose backbone will be small and medium-sized enterprises based around industrial zones, whose backbone will be made up of local cooperatives, associations, local chambers, organised on the principle of volunteering, organisations that will best recognise the interest of the region, advocate for the region, joining and joining local knowledge, which represents the liquids of the natives, and modern technologies, which represent the liquids of civilization. The reduction of negative demographic movements, defined by this law, is an effort to prevent the death of the village, and regional policy must provide an opportunity for staying in the country, with the desire for Serbia to be a country of strong hosts, aware that staying guarantees association, but also that they must take responsibility for their end, for the end where they were born, with clear competencies that will be able to solve any problem that arises before them. We have people who are willing to solve problems, but they lack jurisdiction. Often, citizens get together, appealing to the state to solve the problem, but each country is in the nature of the trom, and understanding disappears in a network of regulations, often in a self-sufficient state apparatus, which exists only because of itself. As a result, the ministry is entering a breach of regulations, thus reducing the state apparatus and proposing this law. Of course, competitiveness is the most important in developed market countries. This law will allow the region to compete. This law is only a legal framework, but regional policy, most importantly, does not mean breaking up the state, for the simple reason that the region itself is not sustainable without other regions and any tendency to raise a barrier is impossible. It's impossible to divide the body so that the organs work for themselves. What we can underline is that Serbia will fight our citizens, primarily, for its building, for its end, for its street, for its kindergarten, for the school, for the municipality, for the city, and for the village, for its stable and for its cooperative, for the plump, for the apple, for the family, for the tradition and for our differences. For all of this, we will fight, aware of our differences, which we finally recognise by this law, for starters, statistically, until Serbia's final victory as the countries of the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21796	Thank you, Mr. Ivanji. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21797	President-in-Office, honourable Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a long announcement on the adoption of a law that would implement the constitutional principle of equal regional development, we have the opportunity to discuss today a law that is passed in a very strange atmosphere, although its intentions and intensities should indicate something else. I am talking about the strange atmosphere that relates, on the one hand, to this government's policy towards local self-government, not only to politics, but to concrete decisions that are the realisation of this policy and, on the other hand, in one atmosphere announced by the President of the Republic, and today we see the ruling parties in the Assembly, which is the change of the Constitution and regionalisation. When you look at the aspects of this policy and this atmosphere that's being created, then reach, intensities and goals of this law certainly can't be the way the Proposer here wanted to present himself. When it comes to the government's relationship with local self-government, it is most specifically indicated and expressed by the decision to reduce the transfer funds, not to enter into any serious business of restoring property to local self-government. The other day, we had a debate on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, where an additional part of the competences that had local self-government in this important area is being taken away from local self-government, and then we see through this law, when it comes to the role of local self-government in regional development, when it comes to new obligations and new commitments to local self-government relating to the field of association, which I will say something about in the course of the discussion, i.e. This shows one direction of this government to essentially give up the concept of decentralisation and strengthening local self-government. Although the Law on the financing of local self-government has suggested a time of decentralisation in Serbia, the shift towards new centralisation took place by the government's coming to power. Now we have another case, most local self-government has the problem that, when it comes to harvesting income from local self-government, which has been passed over by law to jurisdiction, government and state authorities in no way help local self-government take the new commitment at full capacity. When it comes to the announcement of an amendment to the Constitution, which at this point, in terms of economic crisis, does not work for any country in the world, it is incredible; instead of dealing with the problems of the economic and economic crisis in which Serbia is located, we are dealing with changing the Constitution, new problems, new costs, new divisions, and in no way have we been given a valid explanation of what these amendments would have won, except, possibly, new marketing victories of the ruling coalition. In this atmosphere, a law on regional development is proposed. It is even weirder today in the National Assembly that the regionalisation is a done deal; although we are talking about statistical regions here all the time today, today the exposure of the Deputy Prime Minister, that the regions will have tax responsibilities, that they will have the full capacity of the authorities in the regulation, says this is only one introduction. As my esteemed colleague Stevanovic said, the local self-government minister himself today confirms that this is just a trigger for the process of changing constitutional regionalisation. We shouldn't be talking in gloves right now, or in masks. We are talking about some statistical regions as something that will contribute to regional development. No, this is a step towards the realisation of the policy announced by Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic, for Serbia to be regionalised. There are no key instruments for regional development policy here. Why are we saying there's nothing here that's crucial, epochal, to contribute to regional development? We don't have the key objective of this law. What is the purpose of this law? When you look at all the members, you see only one thing – multiplying new institutions. This is the law on new institutions, not regional development policy. Here we have inflation of institutions, which even the minister couldn't count as he spoke, he couldn't call the real name of an institution. That's the essential thing. Now the principle of savings and rationalization has been deliberately abandoned, is not here. The government swears to save and streamline at a time when it cuts itself off by local self-government, when the government is reportedly saving, and here we have a flood of new agencies, associations, new imposes on local self-government. Let's see what's going on here, where's the key problem, when it's trying to create the impression that something's changing around here? When you look at the part of the institutions you have here, one part of these institutions already exists, it's connected, it's agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship and parts of the ministry, and on the other hand, you have new institutions at the level of the region, regional agencies and new burdens on local self-government, which should finance the area of association. What's with the local self-government? Why do we impose a new obligation on them? What are they going to solve? When it comes to these institutions themselves, the new agencies you are talking about, which should contribute to the establishment of strategies, policy-setting, programmes, projects, new documents, then we see a further problem; none of what these institutions should be doing, but also the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Government, which has so far worked within this global ministry. What powers the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises has, these agencies will now have – none, for all will be asked by the Minister and Government. Basically, there's no way he's transferring any authority to those agencies that we've been talking about here all day. They here, mostly, give opinions, advice, even, regional advice, which should establish key development projects, appoints a government, be careful, the government appoints them, and that is said – half of these councils will be composed of local self-government. Can we now imagine, in this politically heated atmosphere, what local self-government will be in these regional councils when the government appoints them? It will hardly be one in which opposition parties have power. So, there's going to be a fight inside local self-government in certain, as we say, statistical regions here. So, on the one hand, we have new institutions. These institutions are not given jurisdiction, but are still detained by the Ministry and the government. I'm going to impose myself on the local self-government. Regions are created for which we have no idea in which way and which criteria are listed here, unless they are supposed to be political regions tomorrow. It is said here – the region is being sorted according to the level of development. The first, second group of developments are listed and said to be underdeveloped regions, and then lists the regions. No one in Serbia can say at this time what degree of development the Vojvodina, or Belgrade region would be, and where it would be in the southern or eastern region. Are we supposed to write what regions are here to tell us what level of development they're at? It's really unserious. What level of development is Majdanpek, or Bosilegrad, or Black Treva, which are in the southern region and which is New Sad or Sombor? Besides, there's a huge illogicality here. The government in the definition of the region says this – that they are statisticalally functional territorial units, but are not an administrative territorial unit and have no legal subjectivity. Let's see what Belgrade is. What is Vojvodina? What's KIM? The regions were, in the beginning, placed in an unequal position. Who brings regional strategies to central Serbia? Government. Who brings strategy to Vojvodina? The Duke's organs. Who brings strategy to Belgrade? Belgrade authorities. So one will bring its strategies based on its capacity, because they have legal subjectivity, and for others, that is the key deception that we have here decentralisation, continues to bring the government. So, the development of the region in Šumadija, Kragujevac, Nis, will not bring Nis and Kragujevac, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and Belgrade will bring its own development, as Vojvodina will also bring for itself. That's the key trick. That's why there's no form of decentralisation here. The key danger of this law is what is said at the very beginning, when it comes to changing the Constitution. But there's one more thing, we didn't get a serious explanation here, it's just said -- we have to have regions because that's what the EU said, to attract funds, funds from EU funds. Let's ask at this point how many local self-government funds have withdrawn from European funds, knowing that they are co-financed? The mass of this co-financing goes through the NIP, so we don't lie. What capacity do we now have to withdraw these funds from the IPO Fund or, tomorrow, a fund relating to financing regional development? In terms of the economic crisis, very little. That's where we didn't get an answer from the government. So, all of this, in a way, represents one introduction, as it is said, to constitutional changes, but essentially, this law will not solve anything in regional development, especially not evenly regional development.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21798	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21799	Ladies and gentlemen, President, dear colleagues, we view this law as a first step. The SPO, perhaps the first, adopted three years ago a programme declaration on decentralisation of government in Serbia and even regional development. The document was preceded by the intra-party work of the section for the state administration and electoral legislation. We have based our programming on an initiative for Serbia's balanced and even development, aware of the sad fact that Serbia is shutting down south, southwest and southeast of Belgrade. A huge number of my performances and performances by SPO officials, newspaper texts, debates and public debates in which we pointed out the necessity of a balanced regional development, that this is a struggle for richer Serbia. Finally, there is a beginning today on the agenda of meeting another segment of the SPO programme. Serbia needs power, money, investment, development projects equally to all parts of it. Decentralised Serbia, with additional powers and a higher budget of municipalities, would be able to rapidly develop, as without strong municipalities and regions there is no strong Serbia either. The government in the hands of local officials provides the best relationship to obligations and responsibilities to protect the interests of its environment. Local officials are best aware of the problems in their environment and will do anything to solve them, because the punishment in small areas is fast and efficient. The first next election brings an election crash to anyone who has worked badly in their environment. So the government is easily controlled by the eyes of its neighbours, and it is difficult for anyone to treat it irresponsiblely. Of course, with all this, it is necessary to quickly reach EU funds aimed at financing the even regional development of Europe. I will remind you that not long ago, undeveloped Portugal, Ireland, Spain or Greece transformed themselves into countries of European quality and standard of life. In February, I visited Spain with a parliamentary delegation of Serbia and could each of the MPs, and there were almost all of the parties represented in this parliament, see what it means and how the decentralised state works. That is why we need to use EU funds to develop Serbia evenly. Therefore, the SPO insists that most of the funds of the Brussels Development Funds are directed towards the poorest regions and municipalities in Serbia, because demetropolisation, politic development and strong local self-government are the fundamental principles on which modern European countries rest. In order to put the state on its good feet, it is necessary that this European law is followed by civilization norms. The kidnapping must be returned, therefore, to restitution. We must fulfill our obligation to ourselves and to the truth, i.e. open a secret file and perform a full rehabilitation. We can't live, make houses, walk, play on mass graves of murdered people before the end and after World War II, not knowing that they are, nor whose graves are beneath our feet. It is important that everyone knows, and there are many who do not want it, Europe is not anti-Serbian and we cannot go to Europe wearing anti-European flags in our hands. By accepting the European way of thinking and obligations, and we are part of this integration process, and geographically and historically, we must level the development of all parts of Serbia, we must hire the unemployed, help the poorest, as our path to the EU will strengthen Serbia, alleviate and eliminate poverty, poverty, therefore, establish a social justice order. Perhaps most importantly, it should be noted that the resuscitation of the Serb village is the only time to stop the nation's biological death and make Serbian agriculture one of Serbia's most important supporters. As many times as we have spoken so far, we were the first to talk about the necessity of a balanced regional development and decentralisation of government in Serbia. Our share in making decisions that will affect the better future of Serbia's citizens is not considered something to be praised, but we believe it is our obligation to the first order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21800	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21801	Thank you. We're talking about the Regional Development Act. I wonder if this is a law on regional development and whether, in essence, this law is equating the differences in regional development, or whether it's in the middle of something else -- an attempt to take on this seemingly harmless and well-intentioned law, in fact, the teeth of all those who are fighting regionalisation, in the first step, and in the second, perhaps separatism. And let no one call it the paranoia of anyone who expresses justifiable fear, for many of us who could say, fear the signs. It's like that bass where a fox doesn't like to enter a sick lion's invitation, because it says: all roads lead to the cave, but from the cave, no trace can be seen. I'm afraid the story of regional development for us, as a state, is not such a clue that we see ourselves a little further, or that we're a little bit more responsible, really scares the way to that cave, but there's no sign of it. What can we make sure that these regions that are called statistical functional territorial units, today without legal subjectivity, don't one day become something more serious? All those who have read the "Little Prince" know what the Baobab seed means - dangerous trees whose roots have destroyed the earth the moment it becomes so great that no one can face it anymore. Such fear, right now, stems from the Minister's presentation, which at no time did not use the word 'decentralisation' with – economic decentralisation. He said very consciously that this is the first step towards decentralisation, wishing that those who have left hope for regionalization that this is so, and the others, who are afraid that this is the seed of some future separation and traces of historical, which bear painful and visible consequences, would not at any time convince us that this is some kind of economic decentralisation. The one who advocates economic decentralisation was against the collection of income in the territory of those who collect it at the time of the constitution. Today he said something else, but that inconsistencies for me is not enough evidence of bad intentions, or the cover-up of these bad intentions is not worth and strong enough to free us from that fear. Everyone knows that once you create a form, a shell for an institution, which is the boundaries, even if they were drawn on a map that we don't have, but they have journalists, we as MPs have to vote and decide but we don't need to see those limits, so when there are borders, offices and advice on this kind of decision-making level like regions, the question is only when and by what law that form will become essential. This is a law which does not satisfy regionalists either, but neither do we who fight for the decentralisation prescribed by the Constitution, which, at this point, until someone changes it, is the Holy Scriptures for the way of decentralisation in every possible sense. This bill, not by my court, but by the way in which I'm going to strip you of the facts, has only one purpose – it should serve the author, I say, not the promoter, but the author, the minister responsible for regional development, to extract funds from the Regional Development Funds. For Europe, Serbia should be shown as a reportedly regionalised country, with an acceptable goal of easing regional differences, and a local public that opposes regionalisation – to make it clear that the region, which was called by the end of 2008, is now called a developing statistical territorial functional unit, is not an administrative unit and has no real subjectivity. Everyone's happy by something, everyone's got some objections, just exactly who's gonna decide who's gonna make the money and where that money's gonna come from. The money will arrive and will be decided by the National Regional Development Agency, which will be formed by the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises and the work of the Ministry of Regional Development which deals with the infrastructure project. By the already tried method – change, so as not to change you, or by the method of a woman who constantly changes furniture around the house to confuse everyone she wants and can confuse, so that Mr Dinkic, without submitting final accounts, lists of done and unworked jobs, connects and separates the ministries, so that we cannot compare the costs and effects in the final budget accounts. And this time, skillfully, very skillfully, in order not to file such an impact report, the National Development Agency forms from two parts of the administration's authority under his jurisdiction. This is a law with serious consequences, creating new institutions, the National Council of 19 members, which is, in fact, a paramount institution that needs to satisfy vanity. The fact that it was formed for five years, i.e. the term of office of members for five years, is complete nonsense, because it is related to the mandate and members of the government and local self-government, and we have submitted an amendment intervention for it. What's real influence and real power is, in fact, the National Agency, which forms a network of lower organisational continents. So as not to swallow a hollow story about the transfer of jurisdiction, it even defines a term of subordination at a lower level, because all these lower levels can only carry out, plan, provide, but not distribute funds, and it clearly states in this law. Even in defining the concept of subordination, where the terms used in the law are defined, it is only done consistently to ask, decide and distribute money at the level of the National Regional Development Agency. What I haven't heard of is someone pointing out, and for me it is a problem, it is – all these agencies, districts, regional and national level, issue public documents; so, on behalf of the monopoly of the state, some paper on the fulfillment of the conditions is issued and charged, they deal with publishing. It's for believing you or not. Publishing deals with each of these agencies and at the moment when modern trends are to separate all secondary actions from basics, this agency should leave everything under one paw and within the house. No job will ever be given to anyone, to earn, but to keep everything here, under the control of those who imagined this, to adopt, to hire, to decide and long to be master of fate, not just financial resources, but through them, and the lives of many people. What is a very interesting activity that is designed to be done in these agencies? The training of instructors and consultants. Mr Dinkic filmed it nicely that certain projects at this stage, and at any later stage, no longer go through the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises. These channels are exhausted, but the new one will go into public documents and training instructors and consultants. He learned a great story about what channels flow funds from pre-accession funds, spilling into side sleeves, someone's pockets, and it looks like it's legal and it's not. The purpose of these laws may be unfulfilled, but this part of the job will always be fulfilled, as in today's regret for free action, Mr Dinkic cannot provide them, always for reasons beyond his power, but the law has defined the fee of brokers to carry out the business of free action and they will not, on behalf of the greater state interest and the interests of the citizens, deny their commission, but will be provided to them in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In the same way, there may be uniform development or not, but there must be money for those who will organise training, in this case, consultants, and at lower levels, it will be training entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. Whether there are professional organisations dealing with this, or under the cover of the story of regional development, we will set up some educational centres in which intermediaries and guides and those who ask themselves to earn good money again, and that is not doubtful, these are the responsibilities defined in this law. Where's regional development here? This people know too well that the division of roles is never performed on the public stage, but behind the scenes. This is the insistence of one of the main players to make him the first in that division and to pick up Kajmak first in this business. What I am interested in, and I believe in the citizens, is, where is the DS, as a coalition headquarters? They will remain responsible, regardless of their skillfully letting the first flag, the one who runs this game, wear Mr. Dinkic. The handwashing to pour money into these paving sleeves and the failure of the job will still be borne by the Democratic Party. One of the competences provided for by this law is that public promotion of regional development is carried out. I ask – does this regional promotion mean the existence of a budget for advertising these jobs listed in the law, in the same way, every night – respected citizens, you look at the advertisement for cutting the rules, which, by means of a budget pool, from the pockets of Serbian citizens, is the money being poured into advertising campaigns, or directly to some media, which are being provided with financial resources at a difficult time, can have a very nice and direct impact and, indeed, impact? It has been said that there are no concrete objections to the law here. Is it a concrete remark when I say that there are three agencies above the regional, one of which has the authority to implement, the other to implement and plan, and the third, again, to implement regional development policy? Is it just a multiplication of the administration or is it a conscious confusion, in which the decision-making and deployment remains with the Ministry, the ministry which provides for Article 7 to determine the stages of development and cities and regions, the users of the funds? He who determines, he wonders, and whom he prays, should not be angry with him. This is the principle on which there are subsidies that the G17 shares, encourages the development of the economy, the establishment of new profitable branches, greenfield investments, etc., and as long as they suffer and citizens do not understand all the transparency of marketing lies in which decision-making is reportedly descending to the lowest regional level. What else is interesting? Twenty-two legal acts you gave at the end of the argument, as a review of the rules, and it doesn't say which legislation should be passed in order for this law to be applied at all. Twenty-two, and the key ones -- the methodology for determining the degree of development, the decision on appointments, you've already been vengeful. There's no "office messenger" without it being some new advice, an organ, where people are satisfied with the vanity, but you're left with a concrete power of choice. Now I'm asking -- how dare you make a decision about a bill that says there are regions, and we don't even know what the criteria are. They say they've drawn in Europe. Even the text says – the competent statistical authority will give the elements for it. It was only today that I realized that it could be hidden behind it that this competent statistical authority, even, is a European body, not a national house, the Statistical Office. I ask, clearly, nice and Serbian – do you have any information on how much the gross social product per capita is? I, by my skill, by knowledge, and it is not insignificant, have not been able to find in this country any information on gross social product per capita, except for 2005. This is a criterion for you to decide on the degree of development. Do you keep it secret, like a lot of data you're investigating, just for your own purposes? You've given the adoption of laws that don't know what regions they are, that municipalities enter regions. What kind of gross social product is that? I found it on the Ju-Es-Eid site as projected data for 2008, but there's no official data on the Statistics Office website, no government, no other. We gave you an amendment to announce it to us in the current year, for the previous year. You know what that means? That you can't apply this law at all, because you don't have the basis to measure the degree of development. You didn't bring twenty-two acts, and you dared to go public. We believe that we are the public, and that qualified public, to talk about this kind of law. If we had the strength, which we really do have, but valorized in this home, we would ask you to withdraw this law. We do not have that power yet, but we warn you that your strength is not so great that you are introducing Serbia into a problem that doesn't seem so big today, and I'm telling you it is. Just look at it from the information given to you by Mr Tomislav Nikolic – is Vojvodina so homogeneous by its development or do you think our fear is unfounded when mentioning the asymmetricity of this state, in fact, indicates that you are already conducting this asymmetricity through this bill? Do you know what life looks like in a cut, for example, compared to the New Sad? Is this what you can see through a bill like this? So, your good intentions are not to be seen, I'm sure they're gone. The future has lost its glow when you talk about it, when you talk about the future through this law, it carries more threats than promises. That's why we can't vote for this law and our attempts to change it are merely pointing to the hollows with which you went out of this house with the best of luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21802	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have your word. Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21803	After this moving talk about predictions about what's going to happen in the next period with hollows and sleeves, I'm going to have to explain a few things to the facts again. First of all, considering whether there is one, even a small, thing in which the G17 Plus policy agrees with the Serbian Progressive Party's policy, I went to your site to see what your ten principles of action of Serbian advances look like. I read this article 10, which I will read to you now – even regional development and decentralisation of Serbia are the condition of its progress. If measures are not taken urgently to prevent the depopulation, the immigration of the smaller population in Belgrade and other major cities, Serbia will lose its comparative advantages and reduce chances of a serious economic recovery. I said, here's the point where I agree with the Serbian Progressive Party. The Serbian Progressive Party envisions the adoption of legislation on regional development, decentralisation, the use of comparative advantages, the prevention of migration, the depopulation, that's what G17 Plus stands for. But listening to you today, Mrs. Tabakovic, I see you haven't read the law enough. It's not in the hands of one party or money or sleeves. In the hands of the government and in the hands of the National Council are policies and in the hands of the government are plans to fund the region, annual plans for financing the region. It's not about one man, it's not about one ministry, and then we come to a situation where you say to the media, I guess, wanting to justify my party president's brief statement and the minister of economics and regional development, who told you -- we're not a rich enough party to manipulate the media and we have our papers, we come up with that to say -- today they're funded from the Council for Regulatory Reform of Advertising on TV, and that's a World Bank programme, which has nothing to do with either the budget or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is an independent regulatory body that makes reform of Serbian regulations, which has an unlimited amount, so people can't deal with regulations in the woods. I'd like to say one more thing to you, although I can give you a detailed answer on every sentence and, if you'll excuse me, I'll write you a letter, by reading the stenographic notes, about where you've all made an oversight of the law on regional development. You're telling me about the underdevelopment of municipalities in Serbia. Dear MEPs Tabakovic, the 40 most vulnerable municipalities in Serbia, are the subject of funding the National Investment Plan programme. In the last three months, I was in 28 municipalities, and representatives of my ministry, in all 40. We, together with representatives of local self-government, sat down and discussed their priorities and projects. Ask your president in Prijepolje, who was not allowed to see me in the municipality, because he would not receive the ministers from G17 plus, not to be seen with us in the municipality, but to receive me at the bar. Make sure these things are correct. He took me into the bar, and I went to ask what priorities were in the underdeveloped Prepolje. They told me – bridge over Lima, and he won a 56 million dinar project to build a bridge over Lima, because it is an undeveloped municipality. Not only him, but also Bosilegrad, where the president of the DSS and Surdulica, where the president of the group of citizens, and various other presidents from other parties met with me and discussed undeveloped projects. Unfortunately, three municipalities in Vojvodina, but it's not Secnaj, but Zitiste, Plandište and Nova Crnja, which I also visited, are municipalities that are lagging behind in development and falling into 40 undeveloped. It is not true that the programmes run by this government are not aimed at easing regional development, but they are so deeply rooted and so deep a problem, which has arisen from a long-standing poor policy, that it cannot be solved one day and one term of government. It's a long-term process in which I hope we're not the only ones involved, but so are many who come behind us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21804	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21805	Mrs. Kalanovic, Mr. Zindovic received you in the only room that could have cost as many associates as you and he had. The municipality doesn't have such a room, but it didn't bother you to come to the bar and even change in the toilet. You see, I know everything that's going on... (President: Mr. Nikolic, I would really like to ask you to take a little care of the way we talk to each other. It really doesn't make sense. )......................................................................................................... I'm telling the truth. (President: I know you're speaking frankly, but it's a matter of dignity at home... That's what you were supposed to tell Mrs. Minister when she said the president of the municipality was admitted to the bar. Then you should have warned her, that it was nothing wrong and that the municipality of Prepolje had no money as much as you asked her to finance, to participate in the project for that bridge you're talking about. I closely monitor all municipalities, not just those in which we participate, in some way, in power, because it's very difficult, since you decide on money and investment. It's very difficult to represent a coalition there, in which we participate, because you decide whether there will be funding or not. You say - I gave the money. Whose money did you give, Mrs. Kalanovic? How come you've already taken that money as your own, so you're going, so you give it somewhere, or you don't give it somewhere? That's what I want to avoid. It's not up to Mrs. Tabakovic who gets the money. It's not your money, you didn't sell the calf to take the money to the bridge in Prepolje. It's state money from the budget. This NIP, I guess, that's why he's using it, although I'd like you to invest it in something that will pay back, not something that will raise your fame. Think about this country a little bit differently. It's not yours, and you're not even poor, like G17 plus. You're the richest party in Serbia. Your campaign starts three months after the election. You set the limits of spending money, which others can't follow afterwards. Your money is the money of all private entrepreneurs who have to give it to you. Your money is all those salaries that are above the maximum wage limit in Serbia. All those executives bring that surplus to headquarters G17 plus. Please don't let me feel sorry for your poverty, so let's separate ourselves from ourselves, members of the Serbian Progressive Party's presidency, some money to give, to fund this poor party called G17 Plus. So please, don't speak with any disrespect about the MPs of the people. We're doing our job here as much as possible. We're trying to figure out what's wrong with the bill, that's our job. You've got enough of those to praise you. They'll be holding their heads for a few years when they realize what you've been pushing at them with this law. Because you don't have that much honesty in you to say, yes, we're going to regionalize, it's going to be a division of Serbia, and Minister Markovic confessed today, and you're still pretending, here in front of us you're pretending to be a woman who doesn't know what's going on. You are ordered to carry out regionalization.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21806	Thanks, it's been three minutes. Mrs. Grubeshic. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21807	When we talk about money, you shouldn't talk about money, since you took the best rooms in the centers of all the cities in Serbia. I'll just mention an example of my Palilu municipality, where you rented a house and a bar on the Dalmatian street. That wouldn't be bad if we knew who was funding you, where you get that money from. Mine, as you say, is a rich party. Well, you've been through Serbia, you know it better than I do, see how they're doing and where they live, how they live and do the G17 plus municipal committees around Serbia? We know for sure about you, because we see, you've taken the best rooms everywhere, the most expensive rooms in the city center, in Kraljev, Čačka, Gornji Milanovac. I don't want to talk about Belgrade. You're in the epicenter on Chico Ljubina Street.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21808	Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21809	It's a harshly injured Rules of Procedure. It is said here that we have rented a house on the Dalmatian Street for the Palilula Municipal Committee in Belgrade. The house on the Dalmatian street was abandoned, and it was from the time the former Yugoslavia fell apart. It belonged to a Slovenian firm, then the government gave the use of Hebi from Bujanovac, and then you sold the Heba from Bujanovac, the basis of Serbia's economy in southern Serbia, to some privateer whose assets were not owned and drug users began to collect. The man who has some offices here asked if anyone could come and move in any way, just so he wouldn't look at any more junkies around the building. So we went into that building like an abandoned building. We'll try to pay for the utility and everything that's being spent, stay, and if someone comes to drive us out, and really has the right to drive us out, we'll get out of it. It's not ours, but it's not yours either. That, in some ways, is still an unresolved issue of the assets of the former Yugoslav republics. It was empty for two years. "Heba" didn't know she was ever given it for use. That's all the truth about it. In the King, our member, who has money, rented a business space and he pays for it and supports it. That's right in Chačka and Gornji Milanovac. Our money to fund the party is what we pay ourselves here through the account. That's all. What do you need rooms for, you don't have a party? Where are these rooms you need, for which many memberships?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21810	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21811	Art. 101, 104 and 106. You said it all well, but when I look at the funding report that you delivered to the Finance Committee, I see that you from your modest incomes, you and your whole family, your all MPs, pay 200 and a few thousand each. It is simply not usual for someone who lives on a parliamentary salary, which is now about 80,000 dinars, to be able to separate that much money from the political party. Unfortunately, the MPs from G17 plus failed to do so, so we found donors, we managed to report these same donors, and to you, it's an honor, since you're a wealthy parliamentary group and you manage to fund your own party.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21812	Thank you. You also had a replica and a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I have the right to reply.]] There was nothing offensive. Please, you've been explaining yourself, and Mrs Grubeshic, and we're done. Mr Miletic Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21813	President-in-Office, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking all day about a law that is vital to the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. The SPS believes that these issues should have been dealt with earlier. We would agree with the fact that we have been having this problem for tens of years and that this problem has increased and escalated from year to year in a negative direction, and that the drastic situation has reached in transition, or through privatisation, so, finally, in many parts of Serbia, we have devastated economy and all production capacities that, as far as possible, have produced some results and contributed to the standard of living of our citizens. We're facing a depopulation process. We have a drastic demographic downturn, and, on the other hand, we have a process called the so-called demographic fall. Metropolises, or increases, demographic expansions, especially Belgrade, Novi Sad, and in some ways developed cities in Serbia. I would agree with criticism about asymmetry in the status of the seven regions proposed in this law, and this is about Belgrade, the AP Vojvodina, and also about Kosovo and Metohija, formally, because these are administrative territorial units that have a certain form of legal subjectivity compared to four regions, which are: eastern Serbia, or eastern part, the western, central and southern, which in the right sense represent a statisticalally functional territorial continent for each of them. When it comes to Belgrade and Vojvodina, these two units are functional territorial continents; in fact, they are administrative and territorial units, with their legal subjectivity, which these issues which are important for Serbia decide through their authorities, while the other territorial units will, in fact, decide through their regional councils. I must say, our position, our club's position, is to support the adoption of this law. It's really about time we left the dead end. It is certain that all legal solutions may not be suggested in the happiest way, some improvement will take place through the debate on amendments, but, in any case, it should go in a certain direction. I live alone in a territory that is underdeveloped and understands this problem, without talking about southern Serbia and some municipalities in the East, where we really have a real wasteland in terms of what is the presence of the population, about what was formerly a number of inhabitants, about what is living standards and the economic power of these areas. Of course, there are certain shortcomings to be pointed out. It seems to us that through this law we have another valve to increase the administration, or increase costs, consumption, so to speak, and that's a great danger. Whether the mechanism that provides for this law in resolving these issues will be effective, it is a sign of a question. We point to Article 24, and we believe that Article 24, paragraph 4, should be deleted. He talks about the mandate of the president of the National Council and 19 members – that it takes five years. I think that attitude in this article is inconclusive, because I think all the members of this council come as a function in this council. None of them are chosen in any other way or named. Of course, the government appoints a Council, but this appointment is only done formally, not essentially. Secondly, this is inconclusive because members of the government who have been in this council for four years do not have a higher mandate, and the question is whether one government will endure four years, this is a special issue. Other members are named by the government. We think it's unnecessary, and we need to erase it. Another question arises – are the proposed regions, whose borders we are looking at, because this is not determined here, really some logical and essential territorial continent by many elements, such as the economy, or the compatibility of certain activities, and whether the north of the eastern region has the same problems as the south of the eastern region, or are these territorial units more based on some geographical principle? It may also be an opportunity to ask the current issue of a reduction in transfers, as one of the Republic Government's measures to overcome the crisis, through the consideration of this law. It seems that this reduction of transfers through government measures is not in spirit with the provisions of this law and is not in line with what is proposed categorization of municipalities according to certain criteria. I think that the Government, first of all, had to take care of it, and, on the other hand, the finance minister had to respect what was proposed as a legal solution in this law and that, in accordance with the likely solutions of this law, he proposed measures that would last until the end of the year and perhaps longer. This would be worth discussing when the final definition of the reduction of the transfers by categories is made. There is this uncertainty about the matter of asymmetry, what they were talking about, and the status of units of territorial continents, I mean Belgrade, of Vojvodina... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... But in any case, this issue should not be avoided as a threat to any further regionalisation or federalisation of Serbia. We simply need to look for solutions that will make what we call a balanced development of certain regions of Serbia and we need to find a solution. Otherwise, there is no state of Serbia without what is Serbia's even development.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21814	Thank you. The word is Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you've come a little later. I have remained in debt for some answers to your boss, Mr Dinkic. Anyway, because he's not here, we'll leave it for another chance. I appreciate that you are a lady, but I don't consider you any less responsible for the chaos in the economic, social and political sense that is in Serbia and that is present. As one of the executives, or people in charge of implementing the NIP and even regional development, I do not consider you to be any less responsible for the fact that these categories are absolutely devalued today in Serbia and very few today who believe in all that in Serbia, which few today in Serbia and the public, through means of public information, can convince you that you are indeed defined that you are developing Serbia from Subotica to Trgovište, i.e. Presevo, or from Zaječar to Užica. It's nice that you're saying here that you've visited 28 municipalities, among other things, you've visited my municipality, you've mentioned it now, Surdulic, and I don't consider myself responsible for reacting, since we don't do power there, I'm there in opposition. Your handicap, when it comes to regional development, or the concept of balanced development, is that you were not fortunate to be welcomed by previous local leadership in Surdulica, the radical leadership, which has shown both a tendency and a commitment, and you know it well, towards one serious and sustainable development, defining and implementing a series of projects at that county level, or at the level of those two administrative districts, the Pcinjski and Jablaničko. You've had, unfortunately, the accident to be awaited by the leaderships in which the DS participates, with projects that make slides on the pools, etc. and other nonsense, reflecting political profile, definition and concept of DS and executive government today in Serbia. You may have the best will and you don't know how much funds from the ZIP funds, from the Republika Srpska budget, but Serbia has no problem with you alone, Serbia has a problem, both in the field and in local self-government, with the political awareness of people who should participate in all of this. That is the fact you abused, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and by telling the story of regional even development, you are promoting at a small door, i.e. You're introducing regionalization into the country. Some have tried to say that this is not regionalization. This is regionalisation, because only in the law is absolutely clearly defined who they are, or what will be in the future in Serbia's regions. Everything else is unsaid. Everything else is a mess and everything else will be inapplicable, and you know it well. That's what I said at the beginning of today's debate. If the ideal conditions were in Serbia, only in five years could we feel some of the effects of such a law. I repeat, the practice of European countries, which you are taking and to which you are calling, is unacceptable and inadmissible and not all that comes from the EU is not good. It is not enough qualification to be a European standard, so that we accept and define it as something that is in our interest, or that is useful to us. I feel the need to comment on a few things that were said after my presentation, unrelated to whose side they came from, I think the gentleman's name is Zeljko Ivanji. You said a few things that can't be challenged, from our needs in infrastructure terms, economic development, and in the end you came up with greenfield investments. That's all good. Then you said it couldn't all come down to expectations from the state and that the state was there to give some frame. This is not a good framework that the state is offering itself, local self-government and all of us who are going to be somehow covered by it. European practice, world practice, really knows the category of the region, from the Constitution, to the law, sublegal solutions, etc. We have to accept the fact that we live in a politically dreary area and that these things are not defined because of economic perspectives, but, in its essence, they have a purely political character, a character that will further destabilise and bring down our national being and our national tissue. Because of that fact, the SRS has a large reserve under this law. I said, the legislation that defines the territorial order of this country and everything else about its organisation really gave it a chance and gave it a chance so far to all institutions, from the local level, to the highest national, or the Republic, to deal with development, both regional and even, and balanced, whatever you want. Our problem and the essence of the problem is that it was not all used and that the executive power in Serbia was not in the function of it, but in the function of something completely different, committed to something that doesn't make much sense. Today I was resented for telling a political story. Minister Dinkic asks – why didn't I go through the amendments, so that I should point out exactly what was wrong? There is time, and we will talk today and in the debate in particular, but how can we comment and call on members of the law that we cannot submit an amendment that will fundamentally amend the law? We are fundamentally and conceptually contesting this law, not whether or not you have defined a term properly, etc. But in order not to have an illusion that we haven't dealt seriously with some members, there is, you will hear in our debate in particular, a serious criticism of certain things. You have banked the 75% European average that you have applied in this law, on which you will define whether the municipality is developed or not, and what you have done and what you have banalised has made it possible for the differences between Belgrade and some, which will be Belgrade's region, to be neutralised, or not to be reduced, but to make fundamental differences, i.e. these huge stratifications are not recognised, but we will discuss this in detail. Although we do not accept the concept of this law, we have indeed done some things and certain things in it. In the light of the law, you say who it's going to affect. Law-making will have a positive impact on employment and job creation. It's more of a phrase and a story. The measures to encourage employment will complement large-scale interventions in economic infrastructure, as well as by giving incentives to develop human resources. In this way, we stimulate the development of supply and demand in the regional labour market and provide greater opportunities for employment. Mr. Dinkic was just talking about major projects, 70 and change projects. In this month, VAT revenues, due to Serbia's "overemployment", 18 billion dinars are lower compared to last year's period, and we are talking about projects and employment. No one disputes your right to deal with economic development, balanced development, but you have to show and prove on one particular case, on two, on five concrete examples that you are indeed defined to do so. From visiting municipalities, visiting them, promising them money... Well, imagine this, in a municipality in southern Serbia, not wanting to disqualify anyone, your party is seeking support because the G17 minister promised them money, I assume you know who it is and which municipality I am referring to, is seeking support to be the president of the municipality, because he will receive support from the NIP Ministry, for regional development, etc. As long as Serbia regulates its political and economic life that way, and people at local level don't let themselves define and recognise their own economic interests, you can only talk about economic development, equal regional development, jobs, economy, etc. For the next nine years, fortunately, you're not going to stay in power so much, we'd still be in a position to determine the devastating statistics that the differences between municipalities are 15 times larger, between districts, seven times etc. It's not possible for nine years for your government in the Shop, where you've been in charge, whether DS, whether G17, I know, all DOS parties, could not have done anything, but that's reality. It's life in Serbia and it's something you can't ignore. You can paint, but eventually that rust comes to the surface. Now let's go back to the European practice you're referring to. You're really right that it's different from one country to another. You have European countries that have defined the regions in their constitutions, municipalities, provinces, regions, autonomous provinces and, ultimately, the federal state. In Switzerland, it's cantons. It's called something like this. It's called something like that. The truth is, they have statistical regions, but they're not constitutional categories. In some countries, even, they are not even legal categories of the statistical region. We'll get there, on the case of one of the states you're calling on, to make this by its mode, and it's not true. There are certain similarities, but it is not true, and we will come to a whole gene of production and statistical regions and regional development agencies, for example, in Slovenia, but the state has not regulated them with a constitution or any special law that will destroy the state tissue. Slovenia doesn't have a region, but we'll get there. So, stopping different countries in Europe are treating regions differently. There are those European countries that have used the concept of regional division, or regionalisation, to achieve some of their intentions under the European cap. For example, here you have an example of Catalan, Baskian and Walloon regionalism. Those interests, whatever nature they were, which they could not achieve through the national framework in the national states, by obtaining the status of the regions, succeeded under the European roof, or under the roof of European institutions. We will be truly sorry if in this concept of regional development, or regionalisation of Serbia, we can find analogies and similarities with this. If you really think it is wise to talk about a law like this today, when in Vojvodina, we are openly talking about the Vojvodina as a European region, when political opportunities and life in Vojvodina is governed by Nenad Canak and people who are openly talking about Vojvodina as a European region, or who are openly saying that this is a political issue that we need to be clear about – whether Vojvodina needs a statute or perhaps some other type of basic act, define Vojvodina as a region, it is beyond reason. Of course, nothing is sacred to you. This may be a mockery from your point of view, but the results of your reign in the last nine years have been truly devastating. We have nothing to catch on to, so we can recognize some good intentions on your part in this whole story. This should also be noted, Mrs Kalanovic, the reaction in Europe to the concept of regionalisation is becoming more and more frequent and is not rare nor study, analysis and commentary that the concept of regionalisation is according to EU standards, which you are allegedly applying here, a mechanism of weakness and destruction of national states and national identities. That I am right, or those who share this opinion and attitude, best illustrate the elections held for the European Parliament, in which the dominant were the political sides of the right-wing commitment, the national definition. This liberal concept is slowly losing power, melting, and that's good. Whether it's natural or not, I don't know, but it's a good thing that the liberal concept of state and every other form of definition and arrangement of relations in one country is slowly dried up, or disappeared. I hope this process ends in a serious way. Let me get back to what I started a moment ago. This is where you called for Slovenia. Slovenia has 13 statistical regions, make it 12, not a big mistake, 12 or 13, anyway. She was 13, sure, you know. And you know how regional development agencies and statistical regions are defined in Slovenia? They were created through a project of an Irish NGO and for a project to implement regional development agencies in Slovenia, the Irish NGO from the city of Balin received money from Brussels through one project. They defined it there, they set it up, I don't know what time period they defined it during. Then the team or similar project competed and received money to do the same in Serbia, and it seems to me, in five districts, to be present for five years. For this story it is very important that the regions in Slovenia are not a constitutional category, that they are even less so in Ireland and, most importantly, the state only appears as support. You here announce that regional development agencies will establish a government. What's that? Is there a more centralised category than that? The government will form agencies. A short time ago, fellow MPs spoke about the government's powers, and I don't think you could count them now, either, what the government should be doing when it comes to regionalising Serbia. I deliberately insist on regionalisation, because this is not a law dealing with the balanced development of all parts of Serbia, but with the regionalisation of Serbia. A co-worker from G17 recently said this was only the first step and the minister of state administration announced that this would define constitutional changes. I think we're the only country in the world to pass a law that will initiate constitutional changes. In countries that are serious, the constitution changes to 100 or 200 years, and we change it every other or third year. If you thought it was smart, at least you'd suggest this in the previous Constitution of 2006. Obviously, it was not recognised as an interest and it could not provide a political consensus, that regions, as a potential danger, were defined through the Constitution, and then through the law. We are dealing with legislation announcing constitutional changes, indeed, in accordance with European standards, these are European principles. There are also a lot of things to be criticised under Article 13 of this law, which defines the principles of solidarity, planning, subsidiarity, rationality and compliance with EU rules. These are the principles or principles that you've come up with. I'll look back on one thing at a time, and that's planning. Who knows how many times we've insisted on planning and strategic documentation from this pay phone. On what basis are you going to define the strategic documents, the development documents that you are predicting here? Based on what? It's based on strategy. This country has been founded, in the last nine years, on strategies that are declarative acts, not binding acts with the power of the law. Now we're going to invent hot water, how to define strategic development documents. You have spatial plans. What about the spatial plans? I've talked about it a hundred times in the Assembly. When was your last spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia adopted? When was your adoption and how many municipalities in Serbia have spatial and planning documentation? This is your colleague, Minister Dulic, whose ministry will largely depend on this implementation and implementation of this regional development concept. Tell me, at what time did you arm the production of developmental regional documents? Tell me. What time? When will regional development agencies have time to produce development documents, or bodies responsible for making them, what is the deadline for making them? Irregularity. What does your colleague Dulic say? He said that as early as January, vowing that the law on planning and construction, which would serve as a flat regional development, would be in the process in March. Why isn't he in the process? That's a question for the government, maybe for Dulic, but now there's you. It says – Serbia is almost in the last place in Europe at the speed of issuing building permits, ranked 149th on the list of countries eligible for World Bank investors. You're talking about investments, Greenfield investments. This is one of the indicators of the investment climate in Serbia, which will also depend on regional development. Compared to the previous year, we went back twenty-one places, with all your talk of implementing European standards in Serbia. The biggest problems in the area of construction, according to him, are lack of spatial plans, unresolved property, which was also mentioned earlier, and property over city building land, etc. What is most important, only 20% of Serbia's municipalities have spatial urban plans; these are the preconditions for resolving development documents that will be mechanisms for implementing this regional development. In 20% of the municipalities you have it. You are trying to convince us that this law is not a political pamphlet with a political background, but rather a framework that will define the greenfield investment, or our even regional development. The importance of this is also reflected in the fact that the law provides that municipalities that do not make their own developmental, or planning documentation will be dissolved, as well as in cases where they do not adopt the budget. This is the only intensities of the government that can be said to be rational and smart, everything else has been left in this Serbia and in the executive government in Serbia, and that is why we are in the situation we are in today. Madam Minister, I would now like to take a few concrete examples to show you how the idea and concept of affirmation of regional and subregional projects can be applied, it can be developed and dafunctional and without this law, because you know well that it can. But this is a political obligation. Surdulica municipality was radical in the previous term of local self-government, but in two administrative districts, Pcinjsko and Jablaničko, we were declared by European and international institutions as the leader of sustainable development and we were the municipalities that received the largest number of projects from the European Agency for Reconstruction. Do you know why? Because they were regional and subregional projects. We have received a project relating to Lake Vlasin, to protect and preserve the water resources, but also to protect the water streams, in the south, for the municipalities of Surdulica, Vladicin Han, Leskovac, and in the north – Black Trava and Vlasotince, I would be happy to hear it, further, down the South Morava stream. The basic infrastructure precondition for the development of the Vlasin tourist centre, as one of ten priorities and Serbia's tourism brands, is one of three priorities in the Eastern Serbian cluster, according to a strategy for Serbia's tourism development. We respected everything and strategic and planned acts, which obliged us to do so. Do you know why we got the money? Only because the projects were regional or subregional. We had a problem down there that in the environment we didn't have leadership with that kind of consciousness, and it got some sense. We've been running a series of initiatives. You know, you've been there, you've heard and you know everything. Indeed, he had no one to follow us down, and for many initiatives that were presented at the republican level, unfortunately, there was no hearing. In particular, in this program you weren't our partner, or anyone from the government, this has nothing to do with the government. Then we defined, through the MIR programme, the spatial strategic planning documentation and all these are programmes, projects of regional, sub-regional character, exactly what the EU insists, the European institutions, but all this was not meant by the adoption of one of these laws, and you know it well. You, Madam Minister, could, by one government regulation, put into operation the concept of equal regional development and say that no local self-government would receive the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia unless it defined its projects as subregional and regional, that the wider community at that level of the administrative district would benefit from that. You could've worked things out. You are not the target of regional development, you are aiming at regionalisation of Serbia, which will result in Serbia's dispersion. Whose purpose is that? We really don't know if it's your goal or the purpose of someone else, that you're carrying out, whether American administrations or Europeans, it doesn't matter. This is not a law that stimulates regional development. We have also done projects related to the municipalities of the neighbouring Republic of Bulgaria, and these are projects of regional character. They did not mind, they are in the European Union, but they recognized that these projects have a meaning and that it is worth supporting, that it is worth getting into partnership with municipalities in Serbia that are thinking smartly, rationally and well. I was talking about these projects a few days ago, when Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was here. The project was done and refers to a network of roads – 132 km of road infrastructure for the area your ministry defined as a tourist brand and a regional tourist product in Serbia, for Lake Vlasin; and you defined that cluster and defined it as an international brand. We define and do it, do project documentation, and it stops. There's no money, you can't invest in it. That's an example for you. We started planning and strategic documentation and you were obliged to provide another 60 million dinars from the RS budget to complete the documentation of the regional planning character. You withdrew that money because the incompetent local administration, which you visited a few days ago, didn't settle down in time and you gave money to the Vranje municipality, to support another project, which is completely pointless, which would not be pointless if it were done on the basis of plan and strategic documentation. It's a ski resort project on the Mad Mare. You spent money on projects without a single strategic document. Now you convince us, the ones we had with you downstairs, on the ground, the experience, that you are indeed defined to define, on the basis of development documents, a balanced regional, or balanced development of the Republic of Serbia. There are a number of projects we could talk about by tomorrow, but, you know, sometimes I have a feeling, when it comes to this government, that it comes to one wall, or -- one ear goes into it, the other comes out. Again, I say -- fortunately, I am truly convinced that this political definition of Serbia's political economic path will not last much longer, but we will leave time to confirm or deny me. This law is, absolutely, contrary to the Constitution. I just said that it is contrary to those members you just called and that you have defined as the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. This is Article 97 point 9) and point 12. Point 9) states that sustainable development, protection and promotion of the environment is regulated; protection and promotion of the plant and animal world; production, transport, etc. Only sustainable development is mentioned in this article, and that is not disputed. In point 12, you say that the Republic of Serbia regulates and secures the development of RS, politics and measures to promote the smooth development of certain parts of the Republic. When it comes to the region and category of region, it is only mentioned in Article 94, but in geographical terms. You also called for this member in an explanation, but only in a geographical context, not in a political context. That's why we think the law is unconstitutional, and that we're right, you're also talking about those who are announcing constitutional changes because of it. Here you should comment on your relationship with KiM through the law. How is it possible, if your intentions are good, that you define KiM only as a region and not as a regionalization subject? How is it possible that the Duke's subject is regionalization and KIM isn't? How is that possible? If you are referring to the Constitution and if you say that this law, as Vlatko Ratkovic says in this report, in accordance with the Constitution, how is it possible that autonomous provinces are defined as two regions, and the entities of regionalisation are only Vojvodina, the city of Belgrade and others, and KIM is not? You may think, Mrs Kalanovic, that you cannot carry out regional development on KIM, or perhaps you leave that responsibility and obligation to someone else, and Boris Tadic is going around the world asking that Kosovo is not being admitted to regional institutions. He asks that they do not receive it, and you do so in the law. Why didn't you define in this law for Kosovo and Metohija all those responsibilities you defined for Vojvodina? Well, a member of the 20th law speaks of Vojvodina as a subject of regionalization. After Article 20, Belgrade is not AP Kosovo and Metohija. Well, it's clear to me, it's a manifestation of the government's relationship with Kosovo and the Metohija. I agree, Madam Minister, if you share your opinion with me, that Kosovo and Metohija are occupied. I agree with you, you have blessed the occupier to come to you, when you accepted the Eulex. But, you know, we send a really bad message, it's not funny, it's sad. What kind of message are you sending to the International Community for Perspectives? With what right will you have for Kosovo and Metohija in negotiations, in talks, in these "subhuman" diplomatic missions of yours, when you release it from your own laws? What right do we have? Or, perhaps, in the spirit of a balanced regional development tomorrow, you will condition regional development, or partnership relations with Kosovo, etc. Kosovo, and southern Serbia. You'll fight for customs relief, etc. I see, I insist on putting customs at the crossings. That's the problem. On the contrary, we're talking about this law. It best paints and illustrates the nature of the government that, among other things, you represent here. I'd be very pleased if you could explain to me what the area is and does the Constitution know the area as a territorial category or territory? Even if we were to pass the law, let's say, here, it's good, we're going to make regions, what's the area going to do? What kind of area? What is this area? Then you say so, but we will respect the principle that defines the Constitution, we will not tear the districts apart. You care about the county and you tear up Serbia. Does anyone in Serbia know the meaning of the existence of these administrative districts, the principles of the districts so far? Does anyone know what they were serving for? They served only for your political procedures and for you to satisfy someone's petty, such or such interests in coalition divisions. I don't want to generalize things. There were principles in the districts that were really correct in this context. At the level of Pcinjski and Jablani County there was understanding and we created a Regional Development Agency, but this developmental agency has nothing to do with the state. It was created as an interest, recognized public interest, and so on. Unpopular, I think, of the NGO sector, but they were really in the position of some projects down in southern Serbia. While we were doing projects, what did you do, ma'am? Not you personally, your government and your political concept. I mentioned it earlier, and now I would like to comment on a few eclectic examples of balanced regional development from the south of Serbia. Is your Zamber investment in Vranj in the spirit of even regional development? Your boss was gonna open it. The foundation stone was passed along with Mr. Gilas and the investment was in the position of hiring 3,000 workers in Vranj. What did you do with it? You've settled your financial obligations. Whoever promised the investment did not, and the minister just said, the state was protected. How do we protect the citizens you deceived in the election campaign? Billy here, the state protected itself, everything was in function of pre-election promises. Today, in the heart of Vranya, that object is collapsing. It's just that what was made of it doesn't collapse. He grew into weed and weed. It's a monument to the even regional development that you've been carrying out for nine years. Here's another example, Madam Minister, from Surdulice. This is a contract signed by the Government, i.e. the Ministry, with a public enterprise – the Directorate for Building Land and the Roads of Surdulica Municipality, and the contract refers, Madam Minister, to the co-financing of the Programme for the Management of the area of exceptional qualities, Vlasina, for 2008. Here, an orderly director submitted a request for funding, and the government agreed on a programme of management of the area of exceptional qualities, and then they made a commitment under this contract. So, your participation, since you're boasting about the state's support earlier, was 1,600,000 dinars. Ladies are laughing, it's not much, I agree, but for you here in Belgrade. There's not much for you here. It's not a lot of 38,000,000 for Ustasha, it's not a lot of 40 million for Luke. For you, it's all small things. You know? But the area you're talking about is 15 times poorer than where you live and mock Serbia, 1,600,000 dinars really are. The contract says that you will make the payment of the contract within 10 days of the date of conclusion of the contract. Then you gave your first payment in January, half the money, half the money you didn't give. Every fifth day they call you from below, not you, the government of the RS, the competent ministry. We're not here, we're not here, we're not here. Now you will convince us of a balanced regional development. When you treat 1,600,000 dinars like this, what do we expect for something else? This is really meaningful. These are things that need to come up with government support, no matter who it's about, about G17 plus, about DS, the SRS, it doesn't matter. These are programmes and jobs that are in the role of regional development and raising and economic and every other level of life of these people down in southern Serbia. The bigger effect is all this, than all your stories today are about regional development, about balance, about your determination to reduce poverty, to make social cohesion, etc. You're talking about policing here today. What kind of policetriness? Don't play polytric by making five new Belgrades. Now we from Surdulica will go to Nis to whine for money, or the one from Dogs will go to Zajcar to whine for money, because that's where they'll understand it. This one in Belgrade didn't understand him, this one will understand him. We grew up on trees, we don't know anything. You convince us here that this is the concept of even regional development. It really doesn't make sense. I said earlier, Madam Minister, for the sake of equal regional development, Serbia needs, above all, a strong local self-government, but even regional development must not have a political sound throughout its story. I repeat, you had mechanisms and a way to force local leadership to raise awareness in these nine years about the importance and even regional development, and regional and subregional projects. You could have, if you really wanted to, in the last nine years, how much you've been in power. You are the only ones who have been in power all this time in Serbia, who, objectively, no one has bothered and have all been acceptable to you. You really could have done something like that. What I have to say is, I forgot to say, Madam Minister, it's about the development papers. Why did both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry remain deaf to the SRS' insistence that the planned documentation be made? It all kind of came together and came to the surface when it came to regional development, or regionalisation. You justified the lack of adoption of planning documents, i.e. a spatial plan that would define all of this, by the existence of a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia. In the strategy, Serbia would be defined by seven regions. That's why you didn't adopt the spatial plan. Now that strategy, as you like to say, will be installed in the Republic's spatial plan and it will be part of Serbia's new spatial plan, but the fact that it will be installed to commit those who will deal with Serbia's spatial plans to define them in the spirit of regionalisation, i.e. these seven regions, first, statistical regions, and later, as we heard, administrative, or regions that will have legal subjectivity. That's bad. This is proof that you were prepared to use science for political purposes and this gives us the right to every observation and criticism that we have addressed to your account today and which we will refer to in the debate in particular, and we expect that in the debate in particular, with many arguments, we will challenge this intention of yours that you have brought before the MPs of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament today. It is very important, when it comes to regional development, to ask whether the constitutional changes you are announcing will define that all other regions have from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as Vojvodina, seven percent, or something else you predict in this regard? How's that gonna work out? Will this law, Madam Minister, represent the overture, will it give the frameworks, the basis to define the network of our settlements in Serbia through documentation, strategically, planically? Is she controversial? Will it be changed? How will you fit this concept of regional development? There are a number of questions we'll also open. One more thing I just want to point out. You insisted today that this law provides Serbia with pre-accession funds and that this is some new condition for Serbia's entry into the EU. The SRS believes that Serbia's basic condition is not to enter the EU, but to society of richer and more developed, above all, to define and develop European core standards in Serbia, and this does not only involve regionalisation law. That means a lot, fighting corruption, fighting crime, fighting for which this government obviously has no capacity to lead. This implies standards in the area of economy, in the areas of economy, social policy, demographic policy, etc. You are in a period that has shown behind us that you do not have the political capacity as a government to do this, you do not have the political commitment to do this and all that you represent as European laws in this House, it really represents one farce, it is pointless and it is in some way a mockery to the citizens. We really hope that you won't have a chance to deal with Serbia's development and perspective for much longer, because Serbia needs a different development, a better perspective, needs a future, but you can't provide it. This and all the other laws you're making just serve to change the statistics that says that you passed a certain number of laws. Essentially, many of the laws you have brought before us have not passed anything, they are inapplicable, they are waiting for 2010, 2011 or 2015, and this one that is present today not only will not be applicable, but is the main and biggest problem of it, which is essentially destructive and which means the initiation of Serbia's political secession, the destruction of our national tissue, our national being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21816	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Zlata Djeric. The remaining time of the New Serbia parliamentary group is two and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21817	New Serbia finds this regional development law unacceptable. First of all, it does not offer the essence of the solution as declared, which is the prosperity, or well-being of Serbian citizens, and shares the existing tissue of Serbia in regions, of which only Vojvodina and Belgrade are concrete, and other regions in Serbia, by some inexplicable criteria, are divided into the world's sides. If it were respected until the end, then we in Vojvodina would be the northernmost north in this division. First of all, if regionalisation had really been carried out in the way it should be done, there should be at least three regions in Vojvodina, because Vojvodina is different and regionally and economically and interestingly, today it is very clear. And the Minister himself mentioned several of the most underdeveloped municipalities, including the names of the two municipalities that are in Banat, unlike some developed municipalities that are 100km in the same Vojvodina. So regionalisation is usually approached when countries are so large that it is one way to establish control over natural resources, or when their borders are such that regionalisation allows for a better organisation. So far, the examples that have been set in Europe, which have produced really good results, are Spain, Ireland, Portugal and Greece, but we forget one thing, these are countries that have a historicly different heritage and a different social movement in their history, compared to Serbia. Countries that have a similar destiny, post-communist systems countries, are Poland, which has a debacle on regionalisation and their undeveloped landscapes are now even more underdeveloped, Romania and Bulgaria, which also lack some great results, and what results we will have in Serbia, that will show time. What we need to know in Serbia is that we will not be able to fix anything backwards. When these results are reported on the lives of Serbian citizens, they will be incorrigible in the reality in which they live at the time. Since New Serbia does not have much time, there is one thing about Europe and EU accession, one of the conditions for joining the EU set for us by this law. I am interested – did anyone ask why Croatia does not have this condition and has very clear four regions and Serbia does? What is the objective and what is the EU's intention? Now is not an opportunity, but tomorrow, when we talk about details, I will mention one important document, which is kept silent in both this home and the public of Serbia, which the G17 plus party is well aware of, in general, about the truth about EU accession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21818	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21819	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, just like the MPs of G17 plus, and my party, Together for the Forest, therefore, an integral Parliament group of G17 plus, we will vote for this bill and we will use all our business rights and opportunities to try and win you over, because we believe that this, in essence, is a deep national law. The people, but because they understand and represent themselves as a gateway through which they should enter not a demagogue, not a declarative, but a true decentralisation in Serbia. This is seen, among other things, by the relationship which this law has achieved in a concrete political context, which it establishes in relation to reality, which is explicitly said in this law and interpretations, i.e. reality is not seen as a state of affairs, and at least as a complete one, but as a real life process in which the germs of what has not yet become are present, and it could, if we educate ourselves about it. That's what makes the substance of people's lives, the sociality and personality of an individual, cherished in society, and that's hope, the horizon of the future. This law restores the hope of people's life in Serbia, precisely to the extent to which it recognises its imperfection a natural system and a legal framework that we find, as well as an unhindered intention to make political means, by announcing a topic of equal regional development, an entire wave of change in the system, in laws, in the state, changes that we call decentralisation and true regionalisation. So that there is no confusion, are statistical regions a mask for future administrative regionalization? We vote for this law because we say there's no mask. Of course we want the true administrative regionalisation of Serbia, as a real condition for its decentralisation, but it is important to know that at this point they understand it perfectly and want Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens understand perfectly the system of the monocentric position of society, "Belogradation", if you prefer, in which question – is there life in Serbia outside of Belgrade, with little more fiction than the question – is there life on Mars? The issue of genuine equal regional development implies political change, and the labelling of separatists, all those trends that advocate regionalisation and higher degree of autonomy of the provinces in which citizens live, so the story is worn out, so the matrix, which today in Serbia and children are laughing. Try to explain to the numbers what we will do in time ahead, and at this point, not according to the time and degree of dramaticness that brings into this topic a number analysis. Beyond any doubt, this law begins decolonization of the Serbian province and counts on you, while you advocate it and implications for the revision of the Constitution, you have the people of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21820	The remaining time of the G17 Group of MPs plus is 16 minutes. The word has Professor Slobodan Samardzic, and let the MP be prepared, Mrs. Verica Radeta. Here you go. You just want to register?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21821	Dear MPs, chairing this parliament, respected members of the government, this is a law that is very important and strategic, perhaps, deciding on future economic development, especially for the uniform economic development of Serbia, there is no dispute about it. The problem is in most of the content of the law, but an even bigger problem is in strong politicisation that monitors both the text of the law and the context in which this debate is being held. In that sense, I'll try to expose a few arguments. First, the very way the government explained the urgency of passing this law is one politicization of this law. So this law is given by emergency procedure, Parliament has accepted it by emergency procedure, and that is why we are discussing it today. Is he that urgent? I will try to explain this on the basis of the text of an explanation of the urgency of this procedure, which is accompanied by the draft law. It is said: "It is very important that in the time of the global economic crisis, the Republic of Serbia establish a real and institutional system, in line with EU standards, which would be ready to respond effectively to global challenges, which will reflect Serbia's regional development." That's some general reason that doesn't mean the urgency of the procedure. You probably understand that. However, the second position is very interesting, I would like to ask your attention: "In addition, EU assistance intended for the realisation of regional development policy is conditioned by the adoption of a law on regional development. If the law is not passed by emergency procedure, there is a real danger that the Republic of Serbia will return part of the funds for regional development to the European Union." This might be true if Serbia had at least EU candidate status. Serbia doesn't have that status. Serbia is still a EU candidate for the moment. As a pre-candidate, it still cannot withdraw funds for regional development and has so far not received a single cent from the European Regional Development Funds. What she has obtained is to raise institutional capacity for regional development, including the adoption of this law, but not for regional development itself. Therefore, the urgency of the procedure does not exist. If it's about having to pass this law so we don't pay back the money we gave to consulting firms, which the EU paid us to make this law, they took part in making this law, you also have that at the end of the argument, and that remains the only reason. So an emergency procedure is a common fraud, there's no reason. The European Union is neither conditional nor forced to pass a law on regional development by emergency procedure, precisely because Serbia, at least when it comes to relations with the EU and its regional policy, can pass this law, can finally build institutions, can also build a system of decentralisation management of European funds, which is also a reason, but cannot get money for regional development until it becomes a candidate. From EU pre-accession assistance, Serbia still, as a candidate, cannot withdraw funds for regional development. Let me make that clear. So this urgency is completely made up. There's a reason for urgency in another matter, and that's the politicization of this whole process. I'll talk about it later. There's something else I'd like to mention about this argument. You see, this is another way to throw dust in Serbia's eyes when it comes to European integration. This government has been doing it for a year. In the field of European integration, she has done a lot of work and has done nothing. That stuff is really bad. It is known that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not applicable. Of the 29 entities to ratify the agreement, therefore, Serbia, the European Parliament, the 27 member states, only Serbia ratified it. Then, the Transition Agreement is not in effect because the Council suspended him immediately after the signing. Serbia itself has been implementing the Transition Agreement since February of this year and has suffered major financial damages due to it. Then, other elements of European integration simply do not work. Perhaps it is not only the reason in Serbia, perhaps it is also the reason in some policy of conditioning of the European Union that is not written, so we cannot see these conditions textually. Today we have learned that it is a condition for an emergency procedure to pass this law – EU regional assistance to Serbia, which is not true. So there's a lot of confusion here. No one knows exactly what the European Union's conditions for Serbia's European integration are. That's where the government manages how it knows and knows, but the continuity in its policy is this terrible propaganda that leads through this law. Why was it necessary for the adoption of such a law, which is needed, at first I said, to interfere more with the EU's conditions? Serbia needs regional development, a uniform regional development in itself, for its internal reasons. That is enough reason for Serbia to pass the law. Why do we tie it to the EU when it is not on the EU agenda or Serbia? I repeat, Serbia must be a candidate to have the effects of such a law. When it will be, you know it best. Namely, the story was told last year in the campaign, that we will be a candidate at the end of 2008, that is the promise of the President of the Republic while he ran the campaign, so it was moved until 2010, and then it is not even talked about, etc. You must bear in mind that this candidate status is relatively low in European integration, but, come on, at least we could withdraw money from the Cohesion Funds for regional development. We cannot do this, because the EU does not accept Serbia as a candidate, but nevertheless, you here have one extremely serious explanation of the agreement of this law with European legislation. Even, you have this famous expression – Acquis communautaire, which is written in that title of the reasoning – Declaration on the conformity of this law, second regulation and general act with the 'Aki kominoter'. Then you have a whole series of European legislation that regulates the EU's regional policy, from the founding agreement itself, through several regulations adopted by the Council, the Commission, the Council and Parliament together, in order to ultimately obtain one such formulation, after listing these European Community laws with which this law should be in line – full compliance with the primary and secondary sources of EU law is possible only by entering Serbia into the EU, i.e. by gaining EU member status. Does anyone think about what is the date of Serbia's entry into the EU? Why is it that our legislation, and not only this law, but all the 50 and a few laws we make, and we will also have the opportunity to talk about competition law, about state aid law, within this session of Parliament, about the law on traffic insurance, why do we prescribe EU directives? Who needs that? Serbia has no obligation to implement EU directives, even in the concept of EU integration. Serbia only needs to bring its laws closer at this stage, and to harmonize them later, bring them in line, etc. We are implementing an orthodox European legislation, as if we are members of the European Union. Then you have, perhaps, the most moving part of this argument, the answer to the question of whether these sources of rights, therefore, are both the contract and those regulations with the legal force that we need to comply with, translated into Serbian. It is said – the Treaty is, and these legal foundations of the European Community are not. So we've made a law with the text of some laws that haven't even been translated. Do all the people who did this law know the language in which these texts were translated? You know what, this is the most common game with the EU, one propaganda that needs to be told to the people -- we're inside, we're in play, we're making progress in European integration, and we're actually standing in place. So that's the first politicization she's been following and following this bill. The second might be worse, it's internal. In fact, if there is no reason for this law to be passed by an emergency procedure for the EU, it seems to me that there is an internal reason to adopt the urgent procedure, which is, in fact, this story of changing Serbia's constitution and regionalisation. Namely, your text is correct, you say that the regions you listed have neither administrative status nor legal personality status, legal entity status. That's perfectly fine, but will you be able to convince us that these regions that you have proposed as regional development units are quite accidentally, in the case of all seven regions, in line with the picture of the Serbian region that the newspaper left in circulation immediately after the President of the Republic proposed constitutional changes? So, Serbia's territorial organisation, in your opinion, has nothing to do with regionalisation on behalf of regional development, but you have a full match for these two things. Why should Serbia's regional development units have to match up with someone's ideas? They do not, therefore, agree with the Serbian Constitution, with the Law on the Territorial Organisation of Serbia, but coincide with one's ideas about a future territorial organisation of Serbia, which will be implemented on the basis of a change in the constitution. Right away, the Constitution is clear, Article 182 says that the provinces, these regions in general terms, can be founded in Serbia, there are elements of such a single establishment of new provinces, but someone is in a hurry in this country, very much in a hurry to divide the state into some seven provinces, for some reason. It is very possible that the reason lies in the failed implementation of the Serbian Constitution when it comes to provinces, existing provinces, in particular, of the province of Vojvodina. As you know, the province of Vojvodina should bring its statutes, it is an obligation from the Constitution and constitutional law. We know the story of the statute very well. The draft statute has been passed, but it is not yet in front of this House. In the meantime, many things happened. Among other things, some misunderstanding within the ruling Belgrade-Novi Sad coalition, within the ruling coalition's ruling party, between ministers and the province's secretaries, and that legislation on determining the province's jurisdiction is not yet in front of the assembly. In the meantime, let me remind you, or some to inform you, if you don't know, the DSS has made a very orderly proposal for a bill to determine the authority of the Vojvodina. The proposal was made in early April of this year, to be adopted by emergency procedure. There's an emergency procedure here that's justified. Why? Because all deadlines are exceeded, because Vojvodina needs to get its statutes. That's quite clear. We don't have that bill in front of Parliament today. The government's ingathering itself, what the DS is picking inside itself, what the Belgrade-Novi Sad relationship is discussing is what and how with that statute and with that law, it's none of our business. We had the right to give that bill, and we did it. Today we have a law under emergency procedure on regional development, but we do not have a law on determining the jurisdiction of the province. The big question is, why isn't he here? Because the ruling coalition has come to a great deal of trouble with the adoption of the statutes, new and new issues are raised before the public and in front of Serbia's political life. So if this relatively simple question can't be solved... Time, Mr. Samardzic. I'll be done soon. ... Then we'll solve a more complicated issue, change the Constitution, introduce seven regions, and this law will serve to introduce that story. These are regions that have no administrative character, no legal subjectivity, but will be consistent with the regions that we will introduce under the amended Constitution and we will be distracted by the story of constitutional changes in the coming weeks, months, but we will not bring the Statute of Vojvodina. So these are the two areas of heavy politicisation that follow this law, which is why it cannot be brought into this text. Please, since the DSS and its MPs have seriously considered the law, brought 44 amendments, tried to make a good law, to study them well, and to take them into account.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21822	Thank you. National MP Milan Stanimirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21823	Respected presidents, respected minister, respected colleagues, the proposal for a law on regional development came at the right time, according to that people's -- it does not snow to cover the hill. Serbian citizens have had and have had the opportunity to make sure in this debate that in the event of a Eurosceptic victory and opposition to Serbia's entry into the EU, the topic of decentralisation, the public governance, the participation of citizens in politics, would be completely depreciated and Serbia would soon face a review of populism, pseudo-democracy and national-patriotic usurpation of key resources in the state and society. So it's equally pathetic, at the end of the 21st century, to argue those who are for solid centralism, but also those who would in the third millennium restore Broz and the 1974 Constitution. There was a lot of missing topics today. It is not the law on regionalisation and decentralisation on the agenda, but the law on even regional development. Now that that is true, we must respond to some of the allegations heard today in this debate. These controversys that have been heard are, in fact, a key issue in Serbia – are we for modernising Serbia as a society and for democratisation? Serbia, if I are to say this in one sentence, needs decentralisation that will not mean disintegration of this society. In order to achieve this, to achieve a consensus of at least two-thirds of the people's representatives, as two-thirds of the citizens plead to join the EU, and to support two-thirds of the citizens, it is necessary to carry out a mental transition, to realize that democracy is in the right way coming to one society from below, not from above. Milan Grol, one of the presidents of the Democratic Party, wrote in time that the decentralisation and regionalisation of a state is the only right to defend every Separatism, because if you don't take someone's responsibilities, which, for the benefit of the citizens, will be better executed at some municipal, local or regional level, he has no reason to object to a centre that took his jurisdiction, because he, quite confident, as in modern modern democracies, would in a better way serve citizens and work for the general good of all citizens. I am convinced that all responsible and discreet politicians, who are thinking about this problem, should take steps to think of Milan Groll. Many here mentioned decentralisation that existed in the SFRY, which was like a regional state, so it fell apart. What Milan Grol said primarily refers to democratic societies. Despite some decentralisation and local self-government and autonomous provinces and republics, etc., there was something called the Central Committee of the Communist Union. I'm afraid those who are today for decentralisation cannot free themselves from the communist heritage in their heads. decentralisation which does not mean disintegration of the state means, from a democratic point of view, increased participation of citizens in public affairs, and from a state perspective, that decentralisation means strengthening state integrity. Such regionalisation, such regional development is also needed in Serbia. When the term "Europe of the Regions" is mentioned, it has caused a huge odyssey among all conservative strong-arms and centralist circles, and some on the political scene in Serbia, including in this assembly, it took 20 years of policy-making to understand the inevitability of integration processes in Europe and the world. Serbia cannot wait another 20 years for them to change their relationship to regionalism and the demands of a modern age for equal regional development. My father was born in Vladica Han, so in southern Serbia, my mother was born in Ljubljana, in western Serbia, I was born in Vrbas, Vojvodina, and I know very well the differences between these three cities and the three regions in which these cities are located. My wish is that this law on regional development and future constitutional changes also allow for a balanced regional development of Serbia as a whole. What does that mean? This means that citizens at that regional level can discuss that not every place, neither possible nor economically justified, has its own hospital. It's not possible and economically justified that everyone has their own recycling center, say, waste, but several municipalities can. Many other problems, a nursing home, a home for old and weary faces cannot have every municipality, but within the region, you can agree where these centres will be and make it possible for these citizens to really benefit from regionalization, to be exactly what I was talking about. I have prepared to discuss what Europe of the region is, because often, in use, the problem that still does not exist is the accepted definition of the region, and can be understood as a cultural, economic, social or administrative region. Within the framework of regional structures, EU structural and cohesion policies, under the region, mainly involve administrative regions as territories that are assembling and subject to common competence for administrative reasons. It is of particular importance that this is the first administrative level below the state level. Representatives of this concept, as a result of the growing danger of unwanted centralisation of power at European Union level, suggest that citizenship sees stronger regionalisation of the EU as a counterweight for centralisation and within the EU itself, which warns the decline of EU acceptability and the thesis of "marrow" enlargement. Regional policy promoters are, above all, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Italy and Austria since its entry in 1995. Although the introduction of the Committee of the Regions has seen resistance from national governments and centralist EU countries, a trend can be seen in the European Union to gradually strengthen the regional level, although regional substructures, such as in Greece, Finland, Ireland and Poland, mentioned today, cannot be compared to powerful German provinces, for example. Since there was no effective representation of regional interests in the European Union, in 1985 a Assembly of European Regions, based in Strasbourg, which today belongs to about 300 European regions from Western and Eastern Europe, was established. Since the start of the work of the Committee of the Regions, in March 1994, the Assembly of the European Regions has lost importance, but today it has a role to connect the regions and the EU countries with other European countries. Today, the Committee of the Regions has over 300 representatives of the region and of the communal levels, who are advisoryly taking part in EU legislation, and a significant link to EU decision-making is regional bureaus in Brussels, with several hundred representations and lobbying bureaus. These are just some of the thesis that I wanted to say something about, precisely because here often, with a lot of misunderstanding and ignorance of the EU structure, talk about this problem. In addition to Europe's nations, Europe's citizens and Europe's minorities, today's Europe is more and more Europe's region, with more than 300, as I have said, the euro region. From 2000 to 2006, the EU financed transnational co-operation of border and other regions with 4,875 billion euros through the Interact programme, which clearly speaks of possible profits from Serbian and regional citizens from joining the EU. Since its introduction in 1975, the share of regional policy has been 1.2%, to rise to 7.8% in 1989, and cohesion structural funds have reached 36% of the total Union funds and account for 80% of total budget costs with the agricultural fund. The structural-political principles of EU regional policy are three basic objectives: the improvement of the lagging regions, which are those that do not reach more than 75% of the EU average, the economic and social transformation of areas with structural problems, such as deindustry, unemployment, population reduction and the like, and the adaptation and modernisation of education and employment policy. All these objectives contained in the structural-political principles of EU regional policy are also contained in the objectives proposed by this law, something extended to specificities. We, the DS, will vote in favour of this proposal for a law on regional development, and we really need to do everything possible to ensure that this regionalisation is for the benefit of citizens and that something called Serbia's feudality is prevented. Serbia's feud may seem acceptable to someone, from the point of view that it would like to become a feeder, but from the point of view of most citizens, it is not acceptable and it is not the aim of this law or the future regionalisation of Serbia. I would like to repeat once again, we want a regionalisation that will not mean disintegration of Serbia, which will mean increased participation of citizens in public affairs and will mean strengthening state integrity. That's why we're gonna back this bill in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21824	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirovic. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21825	Col. Stanimirovic, let me inform you that Serbia is not in the EU and that what you read may be one day, and it may not be then. As you know, they don't even give us a white Schengen list, let alone what you're talking about. And from that point of view, you've said a lot of things that don't fit the facts. I understand that as an MP for the ruling coalition, here, you see, you have been eager to read it quickly and to go, to defend the Government's proposals, but it would be good to look with a little more reality at the government's proposals and that, just as MPs of the ruling majority, you try to influence the government that, when it gives us drafts of the law, these proposals are indeed in the interest of all Serbian citizens and in the national interest of the Serbian state. This law is only one of the conditions brought by Biden to Serbia. It's obvious that the opening of the "gift" has begun. This is one of those gifts that Boris Tadic announced before Biden's arrival; a few days before he announced constitutional changes, precisely in terms of Serbia's regionalisation. This, as you have imagined through this law on regional development, that is, for the time being, the bill of law, that is exactly the way to regionalization, in a very dangerous way. We have warned you today that this is dangerous for Serbia and that only in a few years will it be obvious that what we are saying today is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and that this law is not. In addition, the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government made it clear today, in an interview in one newspaper, that this is an introduction to regionalisation, and you have been telling Serbian citizens about decentralisation for nine years, of even regional development. Of course that sounds very tempting, but the problem is that it doesn't happen in reality. You've made several new municipalities in the last nine years. Everywhere in the election campaign, where you hear an initiative from a group of citizens that they want a part of the municipality to be separated, to make a new municipality, you promise it, and based on that promise you get power in that part of the municipality, and then, in order to keep that power, really make that new municipality and make more problems for the citizens who live in these new municipalities. I'll remind you of the case from a few years ago, when you singled out the Surchin municipality from the municipality of Zemun. And today, citizens of Surcin have big problems because they don't even have a municipality building, they don't have a health home, they don't have a high school, they don't have a real estate department, they don't even have a hospital that I'm not talking about. From a normal and well-developed municipality, or part of a developed municipality, you have made one undeveloped municipality, regardless of the fact that statistics on the territory of Surč's municipality are the highest wages. Of course, they are, because they are only employees of people who work in the municipality of Surcin and they have salaries much higher than the rest of the parts, i.e. the other municipalities on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is your relationship with the government, not just you now, but in those previous governments, according to how do you like to say, even regional development? This has nothing to do with your sincere intentions for Serbia to develop evenly, has nothing to do with this bill, but the funds of Serbian citizens are being distributed, and so far have been distributed, and are now being distributed precisely to the party membership of people in power in a particular municipality. You today, Mrs Kalanovic, have tried to show on several examples that this is not the case, but, behold, your colleague Stevanovic has presented you with a number of examples from the municipality of Surdulica, from the period when the SRS exercised power in Surdulica. You yourself, when he talked about some projects that were implemented there, you turned your head and said – no, no, it has nothing to do with the government. Of course, it has nothing to do with the government, because it could not have happened that the government invested some dinar of the citizens of Surdulica in Surdulica during the period when Serbian radicals were in power in Surdulica. A colleague of Stanimirovic here says that someone who is against this kind of regionalisation, which means the introduction to the further break-up of Serbia's state, which is not for that, is for feudalisation. Well, feudalisation in Serbia exists today as you have shared, Mrs Kalanovic, the feud in the Government of the Republic of Serbia; this is also reflected at the level of local self-government. Say, but the citizens of Serbia know that, can the director of Serbia's income management be someone who is not a member of G17 plus? He can't. It's not funny, really, and it's rude to laugh as a minister when a MP speaks, it's even contrary to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, you're now turning your backs on Madam President of Parliament, so she doesn't see it, she might react. Although the Law on Local Self-Government has given certain powers in terms of decentralisation to local self-government, there is no way of living in the sense in which the law predicted it. Is it possible to appoint a director in a health home in Serbia, although local self-government has, under the Law on Local Self-Government, that authority, can a director be appointed without the consent of the G17 minister? No way. Can a school director be appointed without the Secretary of Education's consent? No way. Exactly, as you've divided the feuds in the government of the Republic of Serbia, so is the level of local self-government. Here's to bring one to you personally and to us in the SRS an extremely well-known example of the Zemun municipality. For this financial year, the municipality of Zemun, believe it or not, has two-and-a-half times less budget than the budget of Vračar municipality, and Vračar is at least four or five times smaller than Zemun and per capita. So where's the logic, besides the fact that at the time in the municipality of Zemun, Serbian radicals were in power?- I'm sorry. In which way you from DOS from 2000 to today are harassing the citizens of Zemun, in fact, 12 years it takes, especially the citizens of those edges, the settlements of the Blue Horizon, the Grmovac, Busije, because there people settled on the plots that the municipality of Zemun had pitched in 1997 and 1998, at a time when Vojislav Seselj was the president of the municipality. There people built houses, there were beautiful settlements, there, between Zemun and Batajnica, made, thanks to the ideas of Vojislav Seselj, an industrial zone, which is the most attractive today in Serbia's territory, an industrial zone that only works. Go through, Madam Minister, that way, so you can see how many employees are there and how many in that part of the industrial zone of active objects, unlike others in Serbia, which are only made and produced empty. In what way did you harass and harass the citizens of Zemun, especially these people who came as refugees and exiled persons and who, meanwhile, became citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have property in the Republic of Serbia, in these three settlements on the territory of the Zemun municipality? So there was no chance and no chance that the Belgrade City Assembly would come up with regulation plans for these settlements. The settlements were built absolutely planically, with streets 12 meters wide, with a green area on each side of the street of another four metres; each house was built exactly on a building line four or five meters from the gate, from the beginning of the plot, in accordance with all the most modern urban conditions, but the problem was that the congregation's majority in the City Assembly did not think to adopt regulation plans, although it had concrete proposals from the Zemun municipality. You harassed that people, in your own way, to explain that they were in these problems because the SRS, i.e. Vojislav Seselj, as the president of the municipality, allowed them to create a roof over their heads. Now, during this election campaign, Gilas started working on Zemun for nothing, he started making sidewalks, taking pictures. However, it was spit out by the citizens, two days before the election, at Kay and told him – you only come here when the elections are, which is true. It never occurred to any of you from the government to ask how these funds from the budget, from the NIP, does this Dragan Gilas have a project for these works, does he have a building permit, do you have a building permit for all the streets that are being built during the election campaigns? You don't, of course you don't. If it really were to be a balanced regional development in Serbia, it would be best for the citizens of Serbia to call local elections every two months. In that period, while the campaign for local elections is going on, there are funds, then don't ask for a building permit, then work and build. When the election's over, the machines move away and the money just disappears and there's no way to build anymore. It's your view of even regional development. This is the essence of the way you rule and manage the state and local self-government. This law is just a colorful lie, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and this is not the only law contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's just amazing that you dare, as members of the government, or the government of the Republic of Serbia... (President: Time. Let me just finish my sentence. ... that you are offering non-constitutional laws to the MPs and that in this law you are again predicting various new parallels, the paraministries, which will cost the citizens of Serbia who know how much, and in an explanation you are saying that this law does not require any additional funding. Another big lie and the deception of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21826	Thank you. Madam Minister has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21827	It really takes a lot of power to find a political background and to politicize every economic development sentence. I did not want to report earlier when Mr. Stevanovic spoke about Surdulica, although Surdulica is one of the classic examples of what regional councils, regional agencies mean in the coming period, what the comparative advantages of the region mean and how much the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development's share of projects that were related to the municipality of Surdulic. To be sure what it is, ask your president of the municipality, who spoke with great praise about the efforts of the Ministry of Regional Development, and especially of the tourism sector, what an effort it is to invest in an undeveloped municipality, so that the municipality of Surdulica, using everything that Vlasina gives, is economically raised. I guess the citizens of Surdulice didn't recognize this effort of yours, which I personally think was a good one, that was a qualitative shift in thinking and raising what the whole region has in natural resources. The citizens of Surdulice didn't recognize it, and you didn't choose power at this point in the way that you're now trying to convince me that she's been doing it impeccably. It may be, but citizens believe it is not; there is another political option in power. Going to Surdulica has shown me, as Minister of the NIP, that the citizens of Surdulica live in conditions in which intervention in the infrastructure development of the municipality is needed, in the sewer. Channeling in the suburbs of the municipality flows along the street and Surdulica has received some funding related to a programme to raise local infrastructure from support programmes to the most vulnerable municipalities in Serbia. No matter how hard you try to politicize everything, there are almost no directors from G17 plus in tax administrations. I assume you've forgotten that Minister Dinkic hasn't been Minister of Finance for a long time, and I assume you wanted to make that connection. And at the time he was, he didn't set up the party line directors, let alone at a time when he hasn't been finance minister for three years, whose authority is tax administration and tax collection. We are also well aware that health homes have absolutely no institutional connection with the appointment of a director by the Ministry of Health, but it is clear that such things should be known by those who objectively exercise local authority. Here, since a colleague from Surdulice is there, is the director, say, from G17 plus ever been to Surdulica in one of the health institutions? After all, it is very well known that the first law, which was fully incorporated into law by independent criteria, defined transfers to local self-government. It is well known that this law and the transfers from a higher level of government cannot be affected either by those who are in power now or by those who were, I mean, local and republican, and that transfers are established by legal basis and legal criteria. In this assembly, it is enough to have any reform system law that will improve the situation in Serbia, which is objectively a country with major problems, so that all things to vulgarity are politicised, wanting to find something that someone thought, in the most intimate parts of the mind, how to tie it to politics, and in no way how are we going to improve the law by implementing it, how are we going to help local self-governments get out of this situation where they are, how are we going to involve Serbian citizens as much as possible in deciding the priorities we need to define and finance. Personally, I will always try not only to give Serbian citizens priorities, but not to share projects with political and non-political ones, which I have proven through this only programme that runs my ministry, I will try to share them with those who are successful and who are not successful. I will stimulate those who are successful in project implementation and project management, and you are still trying to make everything a policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21828	Thank you, Madam Minister. Replica, Stevanović Dragan and Radeta Vjerica. I guess, first of all, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21829	Mrs. Kalanovic, it would be nice to have all the things you've said that you don't happen to be listening to Serbian citizens, and I'm glad, of course, that they listen to me, or representatives of the SRS, who know best what the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to local self-governments and know exactly what the relationship is when it comes to not only the appointments for directors. Well, a doctor can't get a job, let alone appoint a director at home of health or hospital if he doesn't have the consent of the health ministry and the health minister. Smile as much as you want, but this is the truth, which is, unfortunately, the sad truth, because you don't worry about whether someone is really fit in the right sense of the word, or if it's just a piece of G17. He mentioned today that Minister Dinkic had a good time in Koseric. He's sitting here the man who came into that office where they shared loans for farmers. He came to fill in, to apply for that loan, and the woman who was sitting there told him, yes, here are your forms, but, you know, you should join in. Which party? G17. The man says -- wait, I thought these loans were shared by the state, that this came from the government of the Republic of Serbia, not from the party G17. It says – of course, the state, but it was provided by Mr Dinkic for members of the party. It was done in its own time by Ivana Dulic-Markovic. You know, you're not interesting to me, I don't mention you because you're an important pause, I don't think of you personally, we know that behind regionalization, that behind this proposal for a change of constitution, for what the citizens of Serbia are waiting for, and that's the trinkling of Serbia, says Boris Tadic and DS. It is a problem for Serbian citizens, which Boris Tadic plays by the music Biden plays. Biden says -- five regions, Boris Tadic, only Mr Dinkic did not explain. Please, here, try you, who set the criteria for the Department of Statistics and who gave the order to the Statistical Office to prepare these regions, to divide the municipalities before this law was passed in this House? Today, your party president, Minister Dinkic, said, in a replication with Mr Velimir Ilic, that he did not know much when he was a minister in other functions, and today he knows. Poor country, poor people waiting for ministers to learn to work in ministerial posts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21830	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21831	Madam Minister, as far as your party is concerned, in my municipality, whether you like it or not, I don't want to be maligned as Mr. Secretary today, you don't represent anything politically. You've never crossed the census. I don't know if you still exist or not. The point of my reporting isn't that. It is obvious that today you have not listened to everything I have told you, and it concerns projects in my community; you have been dedicated to this cheerful society beside you who laughs all the time. I have just told you that you, as representatives of the Government, have and are now laughing beside you, Madam Minister, have recognised that area as the strategic interest of this country, defined it; the government of the Republic of Serbia has defined it as the strategic interest of the Republic, and we, the next provisions of the Government, are not making ideological certifications, making development documents and projects that will be absolutely in the function of regional development throughout the region. These projects you're talking about, about sewerage, about this, about the incompetent local government after us in Surdulica we left behind from the SRS and instead of having hats and fingernails scratched to implement them, to deal with them, because they're of public importance and of public interest, they deal with coursekeepers, they deal with pools, they deal with buildings of the municipal administration, senseless projects that have no economic effect and no meaning. That was the essence of my story, and I'm really glad that you also realized that a local self-government, run by Serbian radicals, showed and recognised modern and modern economic principles and standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21832	The word has Mrs. Minister Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21833	Obviously, we speak different languages. I keep speaking the language of the economy and the language of raising standards and don't put anything in my mouth I didn't say. I could say a lot about the projects that were left behind by the former government in Surdulica, but I guess you're not too into it, since you don't know what political results G17 plus had in Surdulica, so I invite you to look at the few results we had in the previous period, and as far as the results in Koserić were concerned, we didn't boast too much about them, I suppose even yours. (Dragan Stevanović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21834	There's no reason for replication. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21835	Honorable MPs, respected presidency, respected ministers, the proposal for a law on regionalisation has been criticised by many MPs, and I believe this law is unnecessary, bad and dangerous for Serbia. This law will not do Serbia any good, but will bring new, larger state administration, agencies and higher costs. I'll give you an example. For example, in the last four years of my participation in the government, over 40 kilometers of roads were built, tens of kilometers of sewerage and tens of kilometers of sidewalks, sports courts, playgrounds, a dump was built by economic standards, sports, culture and other areas of life developed. Now, when the authorities, by the way, came, not by their own fault, those that the citizens didn't choose to run the city, they all cared. Kikinda's sinking into the dark. The current government in kickinda doesn't know if she's here or if she needs to leave. The development of local self-government does not require regions and agencies, but capable, valuable and honest people in power. Serbia needs strong local self-government, with greater independence. Citizens of local self-government are the ones who need to define a development strategy, depending on natural conditions, economic conditions, traditions, historical and human potentials. Serbia needs decentralisation in such a way as to gain greater independence in deciding on its development and management of the money it earns. So the government needs to descend from the level of the Republic to the level of municipalities, without intermediaries, without regional agencies, regional offices, district offices, etc. In this law, money for the development of local self-government will be deployed by the agencies, by first taking money from local self-government, i.e. the municipality, to reduce, to return or not return to the amount that the Agency considers necessary for that municipality. I am not in favour of dividing Serbia into regions, or potential republics, because I do not believe that the aim of this law is even regional development. Who has so far defended the government to encourage the development of underdeveloped municipalities? So far, money has been foreseen in the RS budget each year for the development of underdeveloped municipalities. Regionalisation, due to numerous new institutions, will cost Serbia a lot, but it is a question – which of this regionalisation will benefit, will the citizens of Serbia, or anyone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21836	The word is Mrs. Jelena Travar-Miljević. Your parliamentary group has 16 minutes left and the ZES Group has 76 minutes. Everyone else has taken their time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21837	I would like to give my opinion on why this law should be adopted as a representative of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group and a member of the party that advocates European integration. First of all, to the adoption of this law, we are bound by the article. 94th and 97th. The Constitution, too, is Article 113. The SAA and the Regional Development Strategy for the period 2007-2012, which was adopted by the Government in January 2007. This law needs to be adopted because the differences in the degree of development of territorial parts are the most in Europe and show a trend in growth. According to the Development Danger Index, the differences in regional development in 2007 are 1:7 and local self-government – 1:15. The competitiveness of our economy is generally low. We fall into the oldest peoples in Europe, and devastation and depopulation are particularly expressed in certain areas. I don't think this law is going to solve all these problems right now, but it's a prerequisite for solving these problems. The adoption of regional development law provides for the possibility of more efficient use of domestic available development funds, such as NIPs, the budget of local self-government, the AP budget, the state budget, donations, development loans, private investments, and EU funds, and I primarily think of pre-accession European Union funds. This law has been done according to EU law. A public debate of six months preceded a two-year preparation involving experts in the area. In addition to this, I would point out that I come from several times today of the mentioned municipality of Zitiste, which belongs to one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia. I would not now talk about projects made in the municipality of Zitiste and planned to be done, and they were certainly assisted, and will be assisted from the republican budget, from the Ministry of Economy, from the NIP. They were also made until it was G17 plus headed by the NIP. The municipality of Žitište belongs to one of the rural areas and has a decline in the population of 37.1% compared to the list since 1971. Already in Article 3, through the principles of encouraging regional development, such as the principles of integrity, synchronisation, solidarity and equal opportunities, partnerships, planning, the public, compliance with EU rules, etc., we see that this law tends to establish a flat regional law, and the 6th chapter of the law sets out measures and incentives, while the 46th specifically lists those entities that can use this incentive. Otherwise, state intervention will be looked at to help those who are weaker and more professionally and financially. This is one of the laws leading to economic decentralisation, with the possibility for citizens to participate in setting priorities for the development of their regions, as well as the possibility for the most underdeveloped municipalities to come out of that category. The G17 Plus MP will certainly support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21838	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21839	Dear Presidents of Parliament, honourable representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SPO MPs within the ZES Group, will vote in favour of the law on regional development, and the reasons for being the main principles on which contemporary European countries rest. Unfortunately, in this area, there are still numerous monopolies in our country, both economic, financial, cultural, media, but others. Our country needs demetropolisation, decentralisation and regionalisation are needed, because such processes in other European countries have produced very positive results. I'm only going to illustrate that through a few examples. Today, Spain has 17 regions, 50 districts and close to 10,000 municipalities, with an average population of about 4.5 thousand people living in their municipalities, while in Serbia, according to today, it divides into municipalities, live, even 46,000 inhabitants. For example, in Finland there are 12 similar regions as in Spain, in France there are 22, but 101 departments, and in this country there are almost 40,000 municipalities with an average population of about 2,000. To review the situation in countries that are closer to us in the region, or were once with us in the common state. For example, there are six regions in Slovenia, even 210 municipalities with an average population of 9,000. Croatia, which has an administrative division of 20 counties, has nearly 500 municipalities, almost half the population of us, and has so many units of local self-government. For example, Hungary, which is a population like Serbia, has over 3,000 municipalities, or Macedonia, with 22,000 inhabitants, has the same number of municipalities as Serbia. Unfortunately, in recent years, and decades, we have been out of modern flows that dominated the European continent in this area and we still don't have a functional region, and the number of municipalities is the same as it was four decades ago. The municipalities, an anti-constitutional coup that took place in the mid-90s, took away property, deprived of their right to income from business space, the right to employment, largely, even the right to the diameter of land in the cadastre. Often, a central office depends on how much funds will be allocated to a municipality and a local self-government unit, which is not a good condition and needs to be changed, and this law is the first step in that direction. In today's Serbia, practically 3/4 of the country's total financial capital, both domestic and foreign, is concentrated in the capital. As a result, in some Belgrade municipalities income per capita is 25 to 30 times higher than in example. income per capita in Vlasotanc, Majdanpek, Shop, Mali Zvornik, Krupanj, Bosilegrad, Kladov, Medvedji. For the sake of comparison, this relationship between Belgium's richest and most underdeveloped municipalities, France, the Netherlands, the UK is less than twice, so there are many differences in development in the EU countries, which we are seeking, and this law should contribute. Today, more than two-thirds of Serbia's territory has the status of forgotten provinces, because little in those environments has been built, there have been little employment, of which the entire provinces have been detached demographically, and some villages have completely disappeared; simply, there are no more inhabitants, there are only names left on geographical maps. Schools that had 300 or more students up until just three or four decades ago are also closed, and there are no more students in them, or just a few more. I personally became convinced in a village around Zaječar, where a little girl approached us and asked – who do you think is the best student in our class? As far as we know, we answered, and she said, "I'm the best student." Who do you think is the worst student? We don't know, and she says - I'm the worst, because I'm the only student in the whole class, and I think even in school. So, in such demographically relaxed regions of Serbia, it was particularly expressed in Borsko, Zaječarska, Nisavski, Jablanic, Pcinjska and Toplička district, for decades no larger, more significant, capital facilities of infrastructure were built, even during that period, devastated and much that was built in the time of the Kingdom of Serbia and the latter of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Speaking of these historical reminiscings, let me say that during the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, only reminders and comparisons work, in the area of the present town of Leskovec, where almost 200 settlements were located, there were 35 municipalities at the time, and in Leskovec we know what the economic situation, in southern Serbia and in Leskovac today. At the time, due to the highly developed textile industry, which was at European level, it was named 'Serbian Manchester'. The economic backlog of many parts of Serbia also creates a lack of understanding of the population of these regions towards its capital, according to people living in the capital, because residents of the interior of Serbia do not know that there are also a significant number of Belgraders, who also live in a difficult material situation and that only a dozen, even less miles from the city's centre, let's say, Vishica is 7km from the Terrace, there are settlements that do not yet have a sewerage, not to mention some other infrastructure significant facilities. Such settlements in Belgrade have more, some of them have more than 30,000 inhabitants. Another important thing, which should be the introduction, and by passing this law, in changing the Law on the Election of People's MPs, is the fact that according to the current electoral law, which was passed in 2000, which is, by the way, the author of the SRS, Serbia is one electoral unit, and, let's say, twice smaller, already mentioned Croatia, when it comes to the number of inhabitants, there are 10 electoral units, which is also an additional guarantee of decentralisation and balanced development of that state, because it provides for the presence of MPs from all parts of the country, and we today have a situation that we have some 30 municipalities that no one represents in this House, because there are no MPs from any party, and this is the consequence of such legislation. The administrative and developmental economic division of Serbia in the area, for example, in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia were banks and regions within the area, with the creation of a whole chain of new municipalities, is the programme definition of the SPS since the establishment of our party, therefore, for almost 20 years, because it is one of the basic conditions for Serbia to be arranged as a modern European state. In this regard, our party adopted a programme declaration three years ago on decentralisation of government in Serbia and therefore MPs in the SPS within the ZES Group will vote for the adoption of a law on regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21840	Thank you, Mr. Chotric. The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Miroslav Pejica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21841	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, is now finally in front of us the text of the draft law on the even regional development of the Republic of Serbia. We remain one of the last countries in Europe to discuss and, I hope, finally, in a day and pass this law. I believe the adoption of this law is the first prerequisite for implementing Serbia's decentralisation. I would like to remind myself that most parliamentary parties, both in the last and previous campaigns, have highlighted decentralisation as the only way towards economic integration of our economy with other countries' economies, the rise of standards and an increase in general social security. That is why I am sure that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has put before us a bill that comes from the point of view that the decentralisation process cannot begin without tailored institutions and legal norms, and all in order to reduce the interregional differences, which are very pronounced with us at the moment. It has been repeated several times today that in Serbia the relationship between the most developed and the most underdeveloped districts is 1:7 and the relationship between the most developed and the most underdeveloped municipality 1:15. These proportions of development in the next period must be exceeded. Another reason for the adoption of this law is the constitutional basis under which we are obliged as a society to care for balanced and sustainable regional development. Finally, the third reason is to bring our legislation in line with European regional policy standards. The practice of most EU countries has shown that the issue of even regional development is impossible without the adoption of a special law. I believe that only an effective system of institutions can ensure the successful implementation of the National Plan, which provides for the adoption of this law. The institution that determines the regional development policy of the Republic of Serbia is the National Council for Regional Development, headed by the minister in charge of regional development affairs. The council consists of 19 members, one of whom is the government of the Republic of Serbia's number of ministers in charge of certain resolutions, and the president of the regional councils of all regions. It is foreseen that each of the representatives of the region directly, in the presence of members of the Government and other institutions, present priorities and possible directions for the development of their region and thus define national and regional development strategies jointly. What I consider the most important element of this law is its focus on encouraging the development of underdeveloped, devastated and rural areas. The question arises, how can this law have a positive impact on the economic flows and standards of the population? Split Serbia into seven regions, above all, will affect a higher standard, a better life, due to a faster and easier flow of money from investment funds, donations and other sources of funding. It will primarily affect the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, through various types of credit and subsidies, which also means providing a significant number of new jobs. The possibility of creating new industrial zones, industrial parks and solving vital infrastructure problems opens up. Thus, conditions are also being created for the arrival of foreign investors, which, at the same time, is favourablely reflected in the budgets of local self-government. In addition to the practice so far that regional and local projects are financed by funds from local and republican budgets, this law, in addition to improving inter-municipal and inter-regional co-operation, provides quality cross-border and international co-operation. As I come from Loznica, therefore, Western Serbia, I am familiar with all the positive aspects that involve the possibility of cross-border co-operation. We have excellent co-operation with all the border towns of Republika Srpska located on the left bank of the Drina River, but co-operation from the area of economy and infrastructure at the desired level cannot be without adequate laws, such as the one that lies before us today. In addition to the possibility of expanding cross-border co-operation from domains of economy and infrastructure, this law also allows better access to pre-accession IPA funds and other international financial organisations, which aim to stimulate cross-border co-operation. Dear colleagues, in voting day, the G17 Plus Parliament Club will give its support and vote in favour of the proposal for a law on regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21842	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21843	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my esteemed colleagues, both from the SPO and the List for European Serbia, as well as from all other political parties, gave their vision of decentralisation in Serbia. We've heard a lot of interesting things about decentralisation being dangerous, destructive, that it disintegrates the state, to quite the opposite points of view. This software document, the SPO Declaration, was created a few years ago. At a time when this topic was not so current, we talked about decentralisation and the necessity of decentralisation of everything in Serbia, and it seems to us that the political establishment and the public were not interested in a topic which, in our opinion, may be issue number one, as regards Serbia's future. The fact is that today's data that are being defeated and the fact is that all of us who travel to Serbia every day see abandoned villages, abandoned properties, we see a continuation of demographic discharge, we see that 60% of the village's population are an old ageing household, that in many cities, in particular, I think of southern and eastern Serbia, the Raška area, and largely because of that hard-core communist heritage, and in Šumadi, for decades, no capital investment has been built in terms of opening up a factory, where the chances of finding those who, after college or some other education, will remain to live where they were born. Is the law that's on the agenda today all that the SPO wants? No, but it's a good start. It's a good start and the SPO is looking forward to having this law open today. We will pass this law and it seems to us that this process of decentralisation and opening the perspective for those who now do not have it in Serbia will never go backwards. Many reasons are why today the situation in Serbia is the way it is, from accelerated socialist industrialization, the absence of an institutional framework and a clear strategy of decentralisation of government in Serbia, to the communist heritage that we hear today in this high home (this is some mixture of little nationalism, little communism, so you get nothing), that financial decentralisation and the possibility of local self-government and statistical regions to decide for themselves the most important projects of vital importance for these areas – a dangerous game across the country. I would ask every MP, and I have great respect for everyone, to take a little trip to EU countries. The first thing he will notice when he moves from municipality to municipality, from district to region, is that he will not see the differences that exist in Serbia. It seems to me that no one has said today – Serbia is in proportion to the regional development and development of municipalities in the last place in Europe. It's the highest proportion. This law gives us a chance to start sorting out the situation in our country. Of course, the country's regulatory role in the EU is not disputed either, it is dominant, dominant strategies, other laws are dominant, and the way the EU countries have exercised decentralisation has shown that it is a very successful, very colorful one. The SPO will not insist and condition a vote for this and any future laws that will decentralised Serbia by accepting what the SPO is looking for. What we are interested in, is opening perspectives for the areas in Serbia that do not have it, opening perspectives for suburban settlements in Belgrade, living in catastrophic conditions, reducing demographic emptying of the area, no longer having such pressure on cities and the labour market. It seems that one question is, this law deals with it, but at this point, it seems to us that the SPO will have a very realistic position, the question of how, in the present circumstances, when will the international authorities and Kosovo Albanians have, to a large extent, the administration of KIM, decentralised Kosovo and Metohija? We believe that, never recognising the state of Kosovo, from the EU, all other international organisations and institutions, we should require full and unconditional protection of the entire Serbian historical and religious heritage of the province, as well as guarantees that Serb enclaves get the status of Serb municipalities according to the same principles that apply in France or Hungary, where the status of municipalities has many inhabited areas of 1,000 or even less than 1,000 inhabitants. All these municipalities should manage autonomously, be economically and culturally linked to Serbia, without the right of the authorities in Pristina to restrict them and prevent the settlement of Serbs in protected zones around their churches and monasteries, which would also become Serb municipalities. Serbia's daily struggle for the survival of Serbs in its Kosovo-Methochian country and the state's assistance to the people there is a first-class task regarding the decentralisation of KIM. The SPO points to another fact. We today in Serbia, counting KIM, have 160 and some municipalities. It's a titoistic, overcome concept of local self-government. What we expect from the legislators of this law is likely to need to change both the Constitution and the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the State, it is that more municipalities should be formed according to the example of the environment; we do not have to go beyond Slovenia or Croatia. The process of regionalisation and the formation of new municipalities had their full justification and, for example, in Slovenia, we have a reverse process compared to the process that is happening in Serbia. That's where people move out of Ljubljana. Ljubljana has lost 30,000 inhabitants in the last 10 years; they go to rural areas, there they see their perspective, some of them work in Ljubljana, but they want to live in a healthy environment. It is only when we financially decentralised Serbia, when we see the opposite of what we now see in many municipalities, especially in eastern and southern Serbia, which Mr. Čotric spoke about, that one school has a student, that 90% of students from those areas who study at Belgrade University do not want to return to their municipalities, because they do not see any perspective, only when we see the reverse process, the SPO will be fully satisfied. That is why we will vote for this law as, once again, the first step in Serbia's total decentralisation process and creating a chance for all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21844	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. The word is Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21845	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, long ago one draft law has not caused more debate in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia and it is my wish that, in this remaining time as much as our parliamentary group has, I say one of my opinions on the law on regional development. The first question that is important is – is Serbia currently in need of a law on regional development? Looking at the situation that we now have in Serbia, where you have, on the one hand, a complete depopulation, the economic stagnation of a particular area, and, on the other hand, the concentration of the population, the economy and the great economic power, which is primarily linked to the capital of Belgrade and several cities in Serbia, then the situation is unsustainable for the long term. For this reason, it is important that we pass a law on regional development, a law that will have two objectives. The first objective is to create legal and institutional preconditions to reduce regional and intra-regional differences. The second goal is to warn the conditions that, God forbid, conditions are again being created in Serbia to increase the poverty of certain areas. On the other hand, the law on regional development is the first step towards applying and implementing certain strategic documents brought by the government, and earlier the governments of the Republic of Serbia, such as the Regional Development Strategy for Serbia from 2007 to 2012, the Strategy for poverty reduction, the National Strategy for Serbia's EU accession, the Strategy for fostering foreign investment, the National Plan for EU integration and, ultimately, if we look at the SAA adopted by this National Assembly, in 113, the obligation of the EU and the Republic of Serbia is to seek to strengthen regional co-operation and co-operation of local government levels. It is clear that even regional development is a long-term and demanding job and that it is looking for a strong, efficient, stable legal-institutional infrastructure, and this law must enable it. Environment countries, countries in the EU, Slovakia, Poland, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, have similar laws such as this law and these countries have created the preconditions to delete, in a certain way, their regional differences in development. I am fully convinced that this law in Serbia will make the same thing possible. Today, there was a controversy about whether this law was in public debate? In its explanation, it says, for 100 days, this law was held in public debate. The public debate was attended by professional people, public sector people, civil sector, several large round tables were held in Serbia's cities. Therefore, all those who wanted to speak their mind about this law had the opportunity. I think there's a few more things to underline. The law says that the region is defined as a statistical functional and territorial continent, which is made up of several areas established to plan and implement regional development policy. This law says nothing about the legal subjectivity of the region. If political will in Serbia, at some point, is such that the regions get legal subjectivity, then it will happen and that will be confirmed by the National Assembly. No one else can, but this people's congregation. On the other hand, Art. 8th, 9th and 10th degrees of regional development have been defined and it will be determined, and Article 10th of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 11, 12 and 13 you've defined the same thing. It is important that we have criteria for the government, national agencies and regional agencies to determine how much funding each municipality will receive as assistance. No longer can a political be called a minister or any other clerk. Simply, these are clearly defined criteria, so the arguments that someone is sharing money by party membership won't be possible anymore. It is also important to adopt development documents. It is important to bring about a national strategy for regional development. It is brought for 10 years and confirmed by the RS Assembly, on a proposal from the government. Every MP in this assembly will give their opinion on the national regional development strategy. The national strategy will also result in regional regional development strategies, which are being adopted for five years. Who's gonna make them? They will be made by the National Agency for Regional Development, in co-operation with regional agencies, and all including local self-government. In this way, it is trying to ensure that those who have chosen, which are citizens, their political representatives, can participate in the adoption of both national and regional strategies, and in particular funding programmes for the development of individual regions. Regional developmentists are the institutions that exist now. These are the restoring ministries, the Development Fund, business register agencies, but new institutions are also being created. These are the National Council for Regional Development, the National Agency for Regional Development, Regional Development Councils, regional development agencies and regional associations. The National Council and the Regional Council bring regional development policy, these two agencies are following orders. What I mean at the end – this law will benefit residents of the most vulnerable municipalities in Serbia, the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development will benefit, as a powerful agency, called the National Agency for Regional Development, will be created. I am fully convinced that the application of this law will reduce regional differences in Serbia, improve quality of life, especially in poor areas in Serbia and increase employment. (President: Time. ) G17 Plus will support this law and invite all other parliamentary groups to, for Serbia's sake, support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21846	Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21847	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think enough arguments have been made, it's 22 hours, and I think it's enough to stop this debate. I'm going to leave time for the conquistadors to come forward with this bill. Today we had a very long discussion, with arguments for and against. I think both citizens and MPs had enough time to get to know the reasons why they should vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21848	Thank you. Mr. Radovan Radovanovic has a word. He's not here. Does anyone else want to talk? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the President or representative of the parliamentary group want to know if they have not used the right set out in Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Nikolic, come in. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21849	I agree with the predecessor that a lot has already been discussed today and that we are all a little tired. I think it's better that we've worked until 18 hours and we've continued to discuss this law tomorrow, but okay, what's up, here it is. They repeat what I said at the beginning of this debate -- that the conclusion of the DSS Parliamentary Group that this was a bad attempt to pass a good and necessary law that, if it were indeed an affirmative principle of regionalisation and even regional development and decentralisation, would have been good for Serbia and Serbia's citizens. Such a proposal, first of all, undermines the principle of decentralisation and fact, but the law can be characterized as centralised. First of all, in the area of funding for the programme, because all roads, as that proverb says, lead to Rome, and here all the financial routes lead to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. When all roads lead to one place and it depends on political will, then there is no real decentralisation, but, right now, political control of spending funds. This law is, above all, the fruit of political trade within the ruling coalition, where the present promoter is given the opportunity to network a large number of people through the formation of strong agencies, district associations, and thus try to restore his party infrastructure. It is a disastrous fact, but it is less evil than what in the political settlement and trade is trying to get DS and Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic. He wants to avoid the DS's responsibility in this way for the vote of the Duke's statutes. He wants to avoid coming to the National Assembly for adoption. That's why this law is so bad. Because his intention was not to take care of regional even development, but to cover up this fact and dissension and the problem, which is, above all, the DS problem, because it has made it, so this is a good basis for telling citizens about European values and European reach when it comes to regionalisation. It is very interesting when in the debate MPs of the ruling coalition, of course, representatives of pro-European parties, or which, at least, claim they are, this problem comes down to the fact that if we are not in favour of this law, then we are against European values. The DSS is for Serbia's regionalisation, but it must be done in accordance with the constitution, the constitution must be respected, which this law does not do. We need to get a clear answer from those who advocate this law and who have announced in advance, and I think that many MPs are dealing with leniency and idealism, and that, in fact, they do not know what their leaderships are up to, that the most responsible people, the representatives of the strongest parties in this coalition, that this statistical division into the regions will not be an attempt to turn them into administrative borders and that this division of Serbia, which is being introduced through this law, will not, in fact, be the basis for Serbia to be administratively divided into these seven regions. Our proposal, when the time comes for amendments, is for local self-government, if indeed the MPs care about this decentralisation, to organise themselves, to launch initiatives and to form regions according to the only logical principles, which are economic, economic, historical, cultural, traffic, infrastructure, to make that initiative to the government and to give the government, based on this information, a decision. Is this a better solution and is it a true return of rights to local self-government to organize, thus and to citizens, or is it a democratic solution to... (President: Time. I'm done. ... One administrative act, or one draft law, suddenly appears some seven regions, as I said, politically disputed, from the point of view of the Constitution, also disputed. Forty-four are amendments, we will explain each and every one to you, and we will prove to you that the DSS has an incomparably better programme for Serbia's regionalisation, because it is our motive – the interest of citizens and the right of citizens to regionalisation and decentralisation of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21850	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21851	Madam President, distinguished members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I really won't be long, but I just want to say that this is not a law on regionalisation, although DS advocates regionalisation of Serbia, this is not a law on decentralisation, although the DS advocates decentralisation of government, deeply convinced that it is a presumption of faster, more even development, for the greater participation of Serbian citizens in deciding on their own destiny. It is very unusual that someone, for everything he proposes, claims to be working on behalf of the citizens, contesting anyone else that what he is doing also works in the interests of the citizens. We can differ in how we see the best solution for citizens, but I don't think it's politically correct, except that it's not true, to challenge others' right to do something in the interests of citizens. The democratic party does not need to be given orders, since we deeply believe in the European idea, we deeply believe in all the reasons for Serbia to go in haste towards the EU, we deeply believe in Serbia's internal needs to comply with its own laws with the EU, even when it is, as some say, prematurely compared to Serbia's current status in European integration. That is why it is of particular importance for us to transform Serbia in line with the developed world, and this developed world does not prove that there is anything other than the fact that people live better there. The only interest that we are also doing is in Serbia's citizens and our true desire for Serbian citizens to live as well as citizens of Europe. This law is not a law on decentralisation. The law also did not give up the constitutional obligation and the willingness of the DS to wear out all constitutional capacity and content of Vojvodina's autonomy in the statute and jurisdiction law. This law is, in our deep confidence, something quite different, and we've talked a lot about it, and that's why we're going to support it, believing that the government will have hearing and understanding for some amendments. I am not saying that some of the amendments cannot correct the text of this law and I believe that the Government will carefully, applying the concept of the law, consider all amendments and accept all those who will contribute to making the text of the law better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21852	Thank you. Madam Minister. Here you go. There are no elements for replication. [[Zoran Ostojić: I was misread, looking for a replica.]] Here you go, Madam Minister. Really, there's no room. You know what, I can't let you, because I'm breaking the principle. Nothing was offensive, not vague, nor were you misread. You weren't misread, she wasn't talking about you at all, she didn't mention you. She looked at me and at you. He can't. Mrs. Kalanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of this debate, during one day which has lasted a long time in the debate, but I hope that everyone has passed very quickly, given that the topic is extremely important, extremely interesting, concerns many people who have stood behind us in their voices, proposing that we do certain responsible jobs, and that we ourselves sitting here, on behalf of the Ministry of Economy and the team that represented this law today, thank you very much. It will take a lot of strength to implement this law in practice. It will begin with the adoption of the law and once again, regardless of your political beliefs, I urge you to support this law without all of us implementing it together because those who have delegated certain responsible functions deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-09-0.u21854	I thank you, Madam Minister, for you, Mr Dinkic and your associates for their active participation in the work. Gentlemen, thank you for your extremely active participation and contribution and tendency to correct the text of the proposed important law. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock. I'm finishing the initial search.
