ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33479	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The sixth session of the Second Regular Session of 11 December 2009 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 16.15 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33480	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that there are working conditions. I am notifying the absence of MP Milica Radovic, who was prevented from attending the session. I shall inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to all ministers in the government, called for the session to be attended by Ruzica Stoiljkovic, an assistant finance minister. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session, exceptionally, on Friday 11 December 2009, within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1) and past the date laid down in Article 85(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposal for an extension of the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2009 (point 4 of the proposed agenda) be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 149 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 December 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 144 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 December 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 144 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia for 2010, with proposals on granting consent to the 2010 financial plans: the Republican Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the National Employment Service, which submitted to the National Assembly on 3 December 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, to a total extent, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Organisation and Business of the Economic Units of Criminal Penalties, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 December. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 144 MPs, five voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law on administrative disputes on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 144 MPs, no one voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Second programme loan for the development of the private and financial sector, item 7 of the proposed agenda) on the urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Nikolic proposed that the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political parties submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2009 be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 143 MPs, 14 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, based on Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that this session's agenda be extended to a point – a bill on the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia to the "Eurobank" of the EFG a.d. Belgrade, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November. Does Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put the motion to the vote. Of the 131 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find this proposal accepted. Proposal to merge the debate. National MP Jelena Trivan, on the basis of Article 90(3), Articles 142, 2nd and 152, paragraphs 3 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft law supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on financial support for the family with children, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of stock companies, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Insurance, the Proposal for a Law on the Liaison of the Republic of Serbia at the 'Eurobank' of the EFG a.d., and a common Single Review on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Other Programme for Private and Financial Sector Development), the Proposal for a Law on the European Bank between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia (the Republic of Serbia) and the Republic of Serbia's Convention on the Treaty on the Modernity and the Republic of Serbia'. Does Mrs. Jelena Trivan want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 132 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda for urgent action, the proposal to extend the agenda and the proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Of the 132 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find the proposal accepted. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions to give consent to financial plans for 2010: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, (b) the Republic Health Insurance Office, (v) the National Employment Service; 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on financial support for the family with children; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt; 6. Proposal for a law amending the Insurance Act; 7. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Second Programme for the Development of the Private and Financial Sector); 8. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Programme loan for the development of public finances); 9. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (K10) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank Autoput Corridor 10 (E – 75); 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "A loan for municipal and regional infrastructure B; 12. Proposal for a law on the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the Eurobanka EFG a. d. Belgrade. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2010 BUDGET FOR A YEAR, WITH THE DESCRIPTION OF A DECISION TO GIVE ASSESSMENT TO THE FINANCIAL PLANS FOR 2010. YEAR: (a) the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, (b) the Republic of the Social Insurance Institute, (v) the National Employment Service. You've received the bill of law with the motions for a decision made by the government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33481	Mr President, on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 94(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I propose that the time to discuss the principle of the proposal for the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget be extended by another five hours, given the importance of this law for citizens and for the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33482	Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to a vote. I ask the MPs of the National Assembly to plead on a motion to extend the debate from five to ten hours. I find the proposal not accepted. Mr. Zoran Nikolic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33483	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 154 and now I'm going to quote it. "Before searching the National Assembly session, the draft budget is being considered by the committees of the National Assembly and their reports, with reasoned proposals, to submit to the Finance Committee. The Financial Committee shall consider the draft budget and reports of individual committees and shall report it to the National Assembly. “ The question I ask you is, do we have a report from the Finance Committee? As far as I know, this report is not available, therefore this debate would have to be postponed until the Financial Committee is convened and it takes its position, or does not submit a report. If I'm wrong, you're giving me a different explanation. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33484	Mr. Nikolic, during the session, as we normally do and did in the previous session, the Committee session will be held, and we will have an opinion. Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33485	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen and ladies of the Government, in accordance with Article 27, I consider that the Rules of Procedure, first of all, has been broken, when it comes to taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the timely and harmonised work of the National Assembly. Madam President, the vast majority of MPs in this room are witnessing what is happening before the debate on the 2010 draft budget. The Finance Committee was not held, although it was scheduled for 15.00 hours. The Agriculture Committee, it's an unprecedented scandal that happened. At the time of the debate on the Committee on Agriculture there were 11 or 12 members of the Committee, a question was asked to the representatives of the government, Minister Dragin and the gentleman who was representative of the Committee on Finance, and ten minutes before 16 hours, ten minutes before this session was due to begin, all MPs of the ruling majority left the Committee so that no opposition MP could deliver an opinion. And it happens on all committees. Well, why can't we discuss this issue that is most important to the citizens of Serbia, especially in 2010? Why can't we single out our opinions and say what we think about the 2010 budget proposal? Madam President, you must take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, the timely work of the board. This is a scandal about what's going on. We can't discuss the 2008 final account, we can't discuss the report of the State Auditing Institution, you won't extend the debate to ten hours on this subject, and you won't allow MPs as members of the Committee to issue an opinion so they can say what they think. And then you'll bring down the parliamentary groups for 13 minutes, 15 minutes on this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33486	It's been two minutes. The session of the Finance Committee will be held. I've already done that. Mr. Krasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33487	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, a group of 98 MPs of the National Assembly, submitted a proposal on 8 December to extend the agenda of this 6th session of the 2nd regular session – the first report on the financial audit of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, done by the State Audit Institute and the second point, the Report of the National Assembly of Serbia's National Assembly of 8 December 2009. You interpreted the Rules of Procedure and misread it. First, you have informed the public that these reports require urgent procedures. Reports are not an act proposal, among other things. And yesterday you delivered me a letter where you showed that you didn't count the days, that you didn't know how the deadlines were calculated, because you interpreted the deadline of three days as being five days. Let me explain how you did it. On December 7th, you scheduled a session of the National Assembly for December 11th. I don't know what turbo speed someone was flying, he couldn't have submitted any motion before 8:00. So if you delivered the 7th, that day doesn't count. The first day is 8, the second day is 9, the third day is 10. We delivered it on December 8th. So we respected that deadline. If you go backwards, the deadline is again respected, but you did not find it appropriate to even put it to the vote, nor to inform the MPs and the public that there is a need and there is a obligation, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, of Article 48. The Law on the State Auditing Institution should consider the report on the revision and report of the Finance Committee at the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33488	Mr. Krasic, you know it, and in writing, I told you that your proposal was to arrive at least three days before the day of a session, which is today. Therefore, since it was not timely to submit this proposal, he could not even be found in the session. As for emergency procedures, in order for something to be placed on the agenda, there must be an emergency procedure, and I agree that the report should not have that form. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33489	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure... (President: I would like to ask the messengers to speak with me, please. )......................................................................................................... I have answered simply to ask you, Madam President, a member of the 93rd has been injured and it is a member who defines the right of MPs to deliver an opinion, to explain to Parliament why he did it. I don't know why you're putting us in such a pointless position. It doesn't matter who's the ruling majority's representative here anymore, who's the opposition's representative, who's the liberal, the folk, the advanced, the radical, the Democrats. We've all become part of one environment together in which each of our positive efforts is unthinkable. We can't walk upside down. So, how will Free Maras, MP of the LDP, member of the Finance Committee, be able to issue an opinion on the Committee since the budget debate started here? You could have invited us to consult and you could have said - we have to adopt this budget, let's agree on how to do this. We're not gonna do anything like this. We suggested discussing the final budget bill, not to slander the members of the government, because I don't think the members of the government are thieves, but to show this society that it's possible to finally start introducing order. We didn't get support from the ruling majority for something like that. You said you were doing three days of deadlines. The budget had to be in the Assembly by law on November 1st. If the law doesn't apply, why is the Rules of Procedure in force? And we can work that out, but don't turn us upside down. It's humiliating too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33490	Mr Jovanovic, deadlines must be respected in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, MPs have the right and need to issue an opinion, and on the Finance Committee, it will be absolutely possible. In fact, a session of the Finance Committee will be held. In the report, the Finance Committee will gather all opinions from other committees. Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33491	Madam President, members of the Government, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one chaos in Parliament, and this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, because there is no normal work provided for MPs and members of 104, the dignity of Parliament. It's like a Chinese market in here. Everybody's talking! Everybody's yelling! You don't know who's drinking, who's paying. And we've come to adopt the budget, the biggest document in a year, which has a thousand sides. You came Friday night to open up at a cowboy's session and after 15 minutes, open a debate and tomorrow, Saturday, at some night and midnight session, discuss the budget. This is a disgrace for Serbia. This is ten steps back, as far as democracy is concerned, in Serbia. What do you think? With this kind of behavior in Parliament to join the EU? You can't get into "tungus," Tanzania, with this kind of behavior? Are you out of your mind, I'm asking you? Why are you acting like this? Why desecrate the Serbian Parliament? What does all this look like to you? This is a disgrace for Serbia, that in such sessions, nightly, evening, the day before the weekend, you grow up, you give no one a word. Everyone's breaking the Rules of Procedure, but you're not breaking it?- I'm sorry. Gentlemen, you're playing a lot with this country. The kind of Buddha you've made, you mustn't discuss it publicly, as it is proper. Why are you ashamed of your own budget? Why are you ashamed of the citizens hearing about this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33492	It's been two minutes. Except for the vocabulary, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ivan Andric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33493	They've been injured. 24, 104, 93. I'm sorry, Madam President, if you could pay attention. You didn't answer correctly. It is true that the Finance Committee will succeed in some future period, but let me quote Article 23. According to that article, every law, including the budget, is first spoken by the proposing, and then by the rapporteur of the committee and those who have taken the view. That's not possible because most committees didn't either sit or one part didn't. It doesn't matter. How are we going to continue the debate if these committees haven't even been ambushed? How can the Rules of Procedure be respected? Please interrupt the session now, allow the ruling majority MPs to be able to hold board sessions and then continue by speaking to the rapporteur, the rapporteurs, then those who have taken the view. If you didn't want to allow a ten-hour hearing, at least let the MPs have the opportunity to say what they think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33494	Mr Andric, only the Committee on Finance delivers a report on this debate and, of course, the Legislative Committee. Today we'll hear a representative of the promoter. You'll be able to put your opinions on the Finance Committee. I say that a few times. Of course we will respect that, and you will absolutely have the right to take advantage of everything provided for by the Rules of Procedure. MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33495	President, you insist on violating Article 27. Now what you've said is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You say: "The motioner will speak, and the MPs will have the opportunity to set out their opinions later, and then they will have the opportunity to speak of an individual opinion." But then there won't be a proposing. The Rules of Procedure provide for those who have issued an opinion after the proposal. You're making it impossible. You say, "The proponent will speak, and later they will set out their opinion." It will be tomorrow or afternoon when the motionary is no longer there or when one or two ministers remain. That's not the point of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33496	Mr. Ostojić, article 154, says: "Before searching the National Assembly session, the draft budget is being discussed by the committees of the National Assembly and their reports, with reasoned proposals, they submit to the Finance Committee. The Financial Committee shall consider the draft budget and reports of individual committees and shall report it to the National Assembly. '"This article will be realized during the session. We all know that today we can only work until 6:00 p.m., not longer, and the proposing representative will have time to do the exposés, and tomorrow we will continue to work. That's what we agreed on, and business is not possible. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33497	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I must draw your attention to article 90 and Article 91. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has a legal obligation under the Law on the State Audit Institution. The Finance Committee unanimously adopted the Decision, it said in a report by the Committee, asking the National Assembly to open a debate on the State Audit Institute's report.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33498	Mr. Krasic, for the second time, you speak the same content.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33499	No, let me explain, since this is your second time. (President: Completely identical content. ) I would ask you to allow me to make the announcement, so that you can finally understand where you're wrong, since clearly, what you're saying isn't coming to you. According to the Rules of Procedure, you are required to call and deliver the materials to the MPs at the addresses they gave to the National Assembly. Good, you said the MPs' clubs. It's a deal. You sent for the seventh call. Calculate, please, how many days are there by the eleventh, the seventh doesn't count, and people need to master the material for this session you gave, which is this much material. The public is looking for a legal obligation. You don't even want to think that it might possibly be possible for the National Assembly to vote that these two reports are placed on the agenda, put the debate together and discuss it, and you allow the discussion to be conducted through newspapers, so that we hear from the prime minister that they are guilty accountants and dactylographs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33501	It's been two minutes. For the second time you've talked about the content you've already talked about, please don't put me in a position to apply the Rules of Procedure and Sanctions. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33502	Madam President, I suggest that according to a member...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33503	Excuse me, Mr. Jovanovic. I'll give you my word again. If you are not satisfied with the answer, in the day of the vote, do you want to make a statement to parliament? Yeah. All right, that's how it's gonna be. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic, we'll add 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33504	Madam President, I suggest you, in accordance with Article 98(2), set a break to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. I think we need, Madam President, serious consultations and talks. We need to start acting here the way we want others to, and that's definitely not the case today, even with you representing most of us here. I've been an MP since 2000. Whether we're talking about today's government, about today's opposition, it didn't happen, Mrs. Slavica Dejanovic-Djukic, that the Prime Minister should come to talk about the budget, and then turn around and leave, and that MPs like in some "paco school" then continue this debate tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or who knows when. It's a shame! You ask us to agree, so we can extend the debate tonight, we can continue tomorrow, because it can't go according to the Rules of Procedure, and if it can't by the Rules of Procedure, then explain when it happened in the Serbian Parliament to discuss the budget in such a humiliating way. That hasn't happened since 2000. There's no point in putting us in a position to listen to the Prime Minister, and we know in advance that we can't answer what he's going to tell us, but that we're going to talk about it tomorrow or the day after, which, due to our obligations, may not be there. We went into the session, and we didn't agree. We've never done that before. We were invited by the minister for consultations the day before yesterday, and I am the only head of the parliamentary group to come. My parliamentary group has not had a chance to speak to the minister, an opportunity to speak to the prime minister. Is this the ruling coalition's budget or is this the Republic of Serbia's budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33505	I appreciate the suggestion, but after 6:00, we can't work on the Rules of Procedure and conditions will be created for all bodies, or the Finance Committee to work. Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33506	Article 154, direct violation of the Rules of Procedure. (I'll quote you now, please consider that as far as time is concerned. )'''''Inspection at the National Assembly's session, the draft budget is being discussed by the committees of the National Assembly and their reports, with reasoned proposals, submit to the Finance Committee. 'So now the Rules of Procedure has been broken because you opened the search. There's nothing more direct. So, the Rules of Procedure say that before the search of the Finance Committee, it must have its session. You quoted that part of the Rules of Procedure. Please respect Mr Jovanovic's suggestion that you give a break and that the heads of the parliamentary groups agree on how this work will continue. If we enter into a budget debate by breaking the law that we have already broken, given the deadlines for delivering the budget to the Assembly, now violating both the Rules of Procedure and your intention to hide from the opposition's criticism, because that is the only intention we recognize, then maybe we don't need to discuss the budget at all, you can immediately vote on it that ministers can go in peace at home.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33507	Mr. MP, you know that in accordance with Article 141 it is possible to work without a report from the Committee, but of course I agree with you that it is necessary for us to have a report on the Committee for such a significant part of the agenda and we will have it. The word is Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33508	And I thank you for this comment you've made now. So, it's time to stop fooling the public, and it's especially not good when you're doing it from the position of Parliament's president. You cannot apply to Article 141 because it regulates the procedure for the adoption of laws and acts. In Chapter 9, there's section 5 relating to the budget. It was not just that the writer of the Rules of Procedure singled out Chapter 5, or Section 5. It's a special law, and that's why he has special treatment. And that's why when it's said here on several occasions that Article 154 applies exclusively to the budget, then you can't call 141. It says here decidently that before the start of the session, the Finance Committee must be held, that there must be a report. It's also tied up, and I ask you to listen to me, Mrs. Slavice, do not listen to legal advisers, those who are not lawyers. So, article 79 says the next thing - the MP has the right to vote out his opinion at the session and defend him at the start of the budget debate. That's the point. You are contesting the right of the Members of the People to deliver their opinion. The very fact that several committees that are scheduled, which are corrupt by the will of the majority, and because of this there was no quorum, suggests that we have as a fact that there is no MP who has used his right to deliver an opinion, this speaks of the atmosphere in this House. We don't need that. Article 154, Article 157, for you, is the law in this House. I appeal to you that you respect the Rules of Procedure, not that you are making out of this congregation something that the congregation is not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33509	Mr Nikolic, it is particularly reflected in the ability to vote and the possibility that the debate on amendments can go without the break, which is usually the usual. It can go before others in principle, and Article 157 says: "If the provisions of this section are not otherwise laid down, as regards the budgetary procedure, the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the procedure for the adoption of the law shall be applied accordingly. '"The article you quoted literally, it only contains what I read. Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33510	Very interesting what you've done now, Madam President. I understand that you are driven by the ruling majority, but you are persistently violating the Rules of Procedure. Now you're violating Article 157. "Unless the provisions of this section are defined differently. 'And it's different. Article 154 sets out differently. You cannot apply Article 141. That is Article 157, which says -- that it must be discussed, that there must be a report before the budget debate. That's what the Rules of Procedure tells you. I'm not a lawyer, but the Rules of Procedure have been written for us. That's very clear. He strictly writes to you in the Rules of Procedure that you cannot use Article 141. I really don't know where the boundaries are, what's the point of all this. You don't let us discuss the audit report, you don't let us talk, you don't have an opinion! What's this debate for? Should we all go to the games, tell you what we think of you? We are elected representatives in this home. None of the Rules of Procedure apply to you. None! And you want to discuss the budget, with the idea that everyone escapes tomorrow and try to shut down the transmission for some tennis match, probably. Then you think no one will know what we think of this budget of yours. We only ask that the debate be held in the institution in the way that it is intended. I believe, Mrs. Comic, that's funny to you, but ask yourself where this is going. Article 157 says – unless the provisions are defined differently, and it is specified. Article 154 says that -- before the National Assembly session is searched, the draft budget is being considered by committees and submitted their reports to the Finance Committee, which then give the report here. This enables MPs to take an opinion and speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33511	Time. Thank you. All specificities refer to the way and options of the vote and the way in which the debate is discussed. And these are specificities, in addition to all other committees delivering reports to the Finance Committee and the Finance Committee to us. So it's the only specificity, the others are gone. Mr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33512	Mr President, I would like to join this proposal and I think it would be very correct of you to call a meeting of the heads of parliament and agree on a solution to this problem, as the Rules of Procedure are very clear, that the Finance Committee must meet before the debate begins. I think that's very correct. I won't have twice as much time. The opposition is not seeking much at the moment, only to discuss this on the Finance Committee and that MPs have the opportunity to cast an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33513	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33514	I appeal to Article 27, and I also call on Article 104, and to the already mentioned Article 154. Rules of Procedure. I especially remind you that you are as President of the National Assembly, today you are chaired by the National Assembly, and I am forced to sit at this table to hear what the first vice president who sits next to you suggests, so I consider him to be another vice president sitting at this table, that I have the right and that I am obliged to tell you that he is clearly misreading the Rules of Procedure, when he suggests that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, in the sense of Rule 154. Rules of Procedure. This member is very clear, as to when and how the beginning of the session is interpreted, as well as the search for the session, and the opinions set out when presented to the public at the session. So there's no dilemma. Once again, I would really like to draw your attention to the fact that you are the President of the Assembly, that you are chairing this moment and that you are therefore obliged and responsible for respecting the Rules of Procedure, not the vice president sitting next to you and literally interpreting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and obviously wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33515	The total time of the parliamentary groups is five hours and so on: Parliament's Group "For European Serbia" – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17plus MP group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Đuro Peric – Publisher's group PUPS, MP Milan Nikolic – MEP Group SPS - JS, MP Nenad Popović – MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Vlajko Senic – MEP G17plus, MP Lidija Dimitrijevic – SRS Group of MPs. I am opening a principle search on the 2010 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and a single review on the proposals for decisions on granting consent to the 2010 financial plans of the Republic Fund for PIO, the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the National Employment Service. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) Prime Minister, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33516	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, you have before you a draft bill on the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia, a bill adopted unanimously by the government on 1 December of this year. As you've had a chance to see, it's a very large document, and more importantly, it's more quality, in terms of its detail, structure and content. This contributes to increasing transparency and facilitates the control of budget implementation. Therefore, I call on all MPs to contribute in a constructive debate to adopt together the most important document of the government's economic policy for next year. A more detailed analysis of the most important budgetary positions will be explained by Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, and I will look only at the key characteristics and place and role of the budget in the implementation of the 2010 basic economic policy objectives. We're at the end of a tough year. The global financial and economic crisis has hit Serbia seriously, halted its economic progress and further increase in citizens' living standards. However, compared with many other countries, we can say that, in general, the negative effects of the crisis in Serbia were lower. The decline in gross domestic product in this year will be around 3%, with agriculture and some services sectors seeing growth. Unemployment has not increased significantly. The highest level of earnings, wages, pensions and other personal incomes was maintained. The price rise and cost of life relative to last year is about 7%. Due to a much larger decline in imports compared to exports, there was a major decrease in the external trade and thus the current payment deficit. A relatively stable dinar course has been maintained with high levels of foreign reserves and a significant increase in citizens' savings. The total fiscal deficit will not exceed 4.5% of gross domestic product, and the country's public debt, despite the increase, remains moderate and under full control. These indicators are, above all, the result of a better business economy in the second half of the year, which has also been contributed by the government's incentive measures to mitigate the effects of the global crisis, which have been applied since the beginning of 2009. This overall economic assessment was also given by the IMF, the World Bank and other international financial institutions that approved Serbia very favourable loans to boost macroeconomic stability and finance major development infrastructure projects. These days, the country's credit rating has been improved, which actually means a lower risk of investment in Serbia and cheaper credits for our economy. Finally, abolishing the visa for the journey of our citizens to European countries and just unfreezing the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU are the most concrete evidence of our consistent policy of Serbia's full integration into the community of European peoples. The defrosting of the Trade Agreement means a new reality of Serbia and the EU's relationship, means a lasting contract offering a number of practical customs and other benefits for our economy and foreign investors, strengthening trade with the EU and better valorising the values Serbia has with CEFTA member states. That's why, with much more optimism, I expect next and next year. For 2010, real growth of gross domestic product was planned by 1.5%, with the prospect of growth increasing in 2011 to 3%, and in 2012 to 5%. The increase in gross domestic product also means new jobs, salary growth, pensions and other incomes. Personally, I believe that the path of dynamic development can be achieved before. There's a real chance, but we have to do the main job ourselves. The government's economic policy in the next and next two years will focus on: 1) achieving economic growth with a greater focus on exports and with greater dependence on those products and services that are internationally competitive; 2) supporting new employment by creating a more favourable business and investment environment; then maintaining macroeconomic and financial stability, which, among other things, means strengthening competition continues to reduce prices to 6% in the next and 4% in 2012. Finally, an accelerated continuation of the European integration process and implementation of reforms in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and in line with the future status of EU candidates. As part of these goals, the 2010 budget has been developed. The share of capital expenditure is increased compared to current consumption. In addition to direct budget expenditure on capital projects, foreign investments whose guarantee is a state will be activated. You have seen that in the context of public investment, we concentrate on large infrastructure projects, and the main priority is the completion of the construction of Corridor 10. In view of the difficult situation in the liquidity economy and the slow recovery of domestic export demand in the following year, additional incentives are provided for this purpose, to support economic activity as well. The developmental character of the budget also comes from the revenue side of the budget. There are no increases in tax rates, VAT, then wages and profits. So there will be no new tax burdens on businesses and citizens. Instead, the government will make maximum efforts to increase financial discipline, to better collect taxes and contributions, to reduce the grey economy and to combat corruption and economic crime. The plan also includes changes in taxes on profits, income and property, in order to increase the efficiency and fairness of our tax system. I also want to point to the stabilising aspect of the budget. Slower expenditure growth is planned compared to the projected growth of the gross domestic product. As compared to 2009, the state's revenues have not been increased, while at the same time the public expenditure has been relatively reduced. This reduces the budget and total fiscal deficit. To strengthen the overall financial discipline, the amendments to the Budgetary System Act are designed to introduce stronger fiscal responsibility and rules on public debt control, fiscal deficit and public spending. Of course, a sustained and sustainable reduction in public spending is not possible to provide short-term measures to reduce current expenditure, but to fully reform the public sector. It is about basic reforms in the pension system, health care, education and other areas. The aim is to provide a cheaper state with new financing and rationalisation mechanisms for all costs, with an increased quality of its public functions. A similar business is also coming in the restructuring of public enterprises, with a view to their more efficient business. It is clear that such large tasks cannot be accomplished in one year, but we have already begun this process and will very seriously continue it in the following years and years. By increasing the productivity of the "public sector", creating a more favourable environment for market business and technological modernisation of industry and supporting economy, attracting foreign investment and activating domestic savings, building transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure, the government will make the best contribution to faster development and increasing citizens' standards. In my belief that with these essential objectives, this draft budget is also in line, I call on all MPs to adopt and adopt the 2010 budget law of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33517	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Minister Diana Dragutinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33518	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable People's Parliaments and People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, i.e. economic and fiscal policy to be implemented through the proposed budget. This bill, which is written in Article 1 of this Law, regulates income and income, expenditure, expenditure on the Republic of Serbia's budget, its implementation, the extent of the debt to finance deficits and concrete projects, the granting of guarantees, the use of donations, its own revenues, the instruments for pre-accession assistance to the European Union. I would like to stress that the budget is the basic instrument of economic policy of each country and that the budget of the mechanism that the Government is proportional to its capabilities, i.e. the fiscal space it has, responds to the problems it has, and the definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to respond through a policy of public expenditure control to all the challenges. The budget ahead of you is under serious challenges facing Serbia's economy and the public finance system. However, I honestly believe that this budget meets two basic objectives. The first goal is to balance the budget between social and incentive measures. On the one hand, we would still have to admit that this budget protects as many transfers as it can to the population and social benefits. On the other hand, the structure of this budget will enable macroeconomic stability and lay the foundations for sustainable economic growth in the post-crisis period. This contributes to the fact that part of the budget's resources is essentially a continuation of the economic activity incentive programme, such as soft loans, soft budget loans, foreign-produced incentives, incentive measures on the side of the demand, a significant level of subsidies, especially in agricultural production and in priority industrial branches. A further preserved space for the significant investment activity of the Republic of Serbia, above all, the road route of Corridor 10, the continuation of works on the Omjesnica around Belgrade and the launch of activities on Belgrade-South Adriatic. As regards priority investment activity, it will mostly be financed from favourable loans from international financial institutions – the World Bank, the International Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank. It is obvious that conditions have been created that this significant momentum of economic activity, which is the construction of the road structure, contributes to economic recovery in 2010. Finally, this is a budget that is consistent with the IMF. The second objective in drawing up this budget was basically that it represents a significant step forward in the public finance reform process, towards a much more transparent, more responsible and predictable management of public finances. Along with the Law on the Budgetary System and the planned amendments and additions to this law, in terms of the introduction of a fiscal responsibility institute, it clearly confirms the government's commitment and the finance ministry to a responsible reform of public finances. The year that is just ending was a year of great challenges. Sometimes, in a joke, I say the only thing that hasn't happened to us is the meteor crash. There was a culmination of the crisis. There's a nice saying that a good policy is not to know how to get out of a crisis, a good policy means - never to get into a crisis. However, there are crises that cannot be avoided. How harsh the impact of this crisis has been is best spoken of by the revised projections of international financial institutions. At the end of October last year, when we all made a 2009 budget, the forecasts were that the economic growth of the world economy would be plus 3%. There's been a fall in the world economy. The negative movement of the world economy has not bypassed Serbia. Like other countries, it was difficult to predict the consequences and spread of the crisis to Serbia's economy. Also, the IMF forecasts at the end of October predicted Serbia's economic growth again at 3%. What happened to us and what's happening to us is a fall in economic activity. Another indirect indicator of the sharpness of the fall is the adjustment of the balance of payments deficit. At the end of last year, we thought there'd be 16% of the social product. What we can say almost with certainty today is that the deficit will only be about 6% of GDP. Although the decline in current balance deficit is in principle good news, it is in this case the result of painful adjustment to our economic reality. Serbia's economy went into recession in the third quarter of 2008 and the recession continued in the first half of 2009. The government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank of Serbia have brought a series of measures that have tried to mitigate the effects of the crisis. You could say the effects aren't missing. The economic downturn has been halted since July. The economic crisis and its consequences have clearly exposed structural problems in Serbia's public finances system. The overall public finances system of Serbia can be described as a comparatively low basic tax rate, on the one hand and on the other hand, a large number of diverse public services and a high inherited level of public spending. This imbalance in public finances is not sustainable on the medium term. Therefore, it is necessary to adapt public finances and bring it on a long-term sustainable path. Under the conditions of vulnerable economy, a sudden decrease in consumption or an increase in taxes would not be cautious enough. However, some adjustment is also necessary even in the short term. I note that adaptation will be a long-term process and will average 0.5 percentage points of the social product. In addition, a change in the structure of the budget is desirable, as is the creation of conditions for more serious structural adjustment. I'd like to focus on the principles we've been handling when we're building this budget. The first principle - fiscal adjustment in the short term, and yet leave room for fiscal incentives. The second principle – a gradual change in the structure of the budget. The third principle, perhaps most important – is the creation of systemic conditions for the medium-term adjustment of the public finance system. What is the 2010 budget paper? The 2010 budget shows additional revenues, so-called own revenues from direct and indirect budget beneficiaries. While in earlier budgets there was an indent that only partially depicted its own revenues, this budget shows them in full. Also, all the laws that constitute a legal basis for obtaining additional revenue are shown. This budget is won by transparency, better monitoring, both income and means of using budget beneficiaries' funds. For the first time, grants under the first and second components of EU pre-accession instruments have been presented in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, for the first time in the budget, tax expenditures have been shown. Tax expenditure represents a loss of tax revenue based on various tax breaks and a reduction of the tax base. The framework in which the 2010 budget is agreed with the IMF represents an optimal relationship between the austerity of the necessary fiscal adjustment across the spending side, on the one hand, and the necessity of creating room for incentives measures. The budget's planned revenue is 656 billion dinars. The planned expenditures of 763 billion dinars. The fiscal deficit of the Republic of Serbia's budget is planned at 107 billion dinars or 3.4% of the social product. The funds needed to cover the fiscal deficit and to pay off the principal of previously borrowed loans will mainly be provided from credit sources, but through the broadcasting of government securities from values on the domestic and international markets and from the neutral assets of the previous year. The main objective of public expenditure policy, presented through the proposal for this budget, is to reduce the current consumption of the state, without jeopardising social rights and, as I said, by providing sufficient room for incentives. Most of the items in the current public spending are planned at the same or lower nominal level than in 2009. It's not easy to reduce current consumption. About 80% of the current expenditures were legally defined as mandated expenditures. This primarily refers to salaries of state sector employees, interest payments due next year, mandatory transfers at local level of government, compulsory social security organisations and social protection. What is likely to cause the most discussion is an incentive part of the budget, which is approximately 100 billion dinars. No one knows how to get out of the crisis today, but everyone agrees that fiscal incentives play a key role. When I talk about fiscal incentives, I'm talking about subsidies first and foremost. So the expenditure planned for the grant budget for 2010 is higher than the 2009 budget. 42.8 billion dinars were planned for subsidies. I would particularly stress the increased amount of subsidies in agriculture, also in the economy, as well as subsidies in the field of tourism. Capital expenditures are planned at 33 billion dinars, of which 10 billion budgets are planned for large investment projects, i.e. road infrastructure. Soft budget loans are planned at 24.3 billion dinars. The majority of these funds are intended for the founding role and investment of particular importance – "Fiat", "Staff". Also, in this category of expenditure there are loans for beginners, incentives and development in enterprises and entrepreneurship in undeveloped areas, liquidity loans, housing loans, for the purchase of domestic cars, tractors. We expect that the incentive measures will contribute to a faster recovery of the economy in 2010. The experience of EU countries shows that the fight against corruption is possible to apply a new state model through the services of citizens and entrepreneurs involved in both the so-called and fourth branches of government. It is a network of independent regulatory and control bodies, from the Energy Agency to the Securities Commission, the Competition Protection Commission. In Serbia, the network is almost complete, and independent institutions and anti-corruption bodies will have more money in the coming year than in last year. With this draft 2010 budget, the State Audit Institution will have 58.8% higher than this year. The anti-corruption agency, which has been actively working since 1 January, will have 16 times more funds than in 2009. The Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection will have more than a double amount available, while the Citizens' Protector 17% more than in 2009. These are tools to shut down the focus of systemic corruption. The year behind us presents a year of great challenges for society, economy and state administration. I would repeat once again that the budget I presented to you was based on the three key principles that led us to plan and create it. First principle – to ensure the level of social protection and stability of the transfer. The second principle – create conditions for macroeconomic stability in times of crisis and create a basis for sustainable growth when we emerge from the crisis. The third principle – together with the broader process of reforming public finances decisively, in a systematic way, we start by introducing the necessary responsibility in the process of managing public finances. I believe in the properness of these principles. I believe they're fit for a given moment. I believe that this budget is a real step in the reconciliation of acquired habits in public consumption and public income, and therefore I call on Members of Parliament to support this law in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33519	Thank you, Madam Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee want a word, Mrs Verica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Petar Jojic? Mrs. Verica Radeta wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33520	On the Committee on Legislative Affairs, I have issued an opinion precisely because the way you are discussing this budget is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and is not in line with the law. I remind the public, above all, that nine years in Parliament, since 2000, we have never discussed the final bill for the previous year, so that we can talk logically about the budget for the following year. This time we had a real chance because the State Audit Institute did one part of its job. The report that we received covers about 27% of the budget users, of which 100%, was to be covered by the Auditor, but unfortunately you did not allow us to discuss it, although the only logical trail and the only logical way to discuss the Auditory Institution Report, the final account for the previous year, and then that we could talk about the budget for this year. What happened to the review committee report? You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, received that report, took pictures for all televisions, with a smile you received it, and when you saw what it said there or when someone else saw it and turned your attention, then you only told the MPs here in Parliament to insist that the report was returned. We have no idea why. What was the issue in that report and why you tried to pressure an independent regulatory body, you in the parliamentary majority, the Prime Minister, the ministers who went out to race to say that this did not apply to them, the President of the Republic who said he claims, imagine, there is no abuse in ministries and government, but only there is, he says, excessive spending, given the current economic situation? And what is it called in DS, gentlemen of the DS, excessive spending and illegal spending if it's not an abuse of a function that someone's performing? In public, you tried to pressure the Auditor, the State Auditor's institution, by making sure that you gave your opinion on the report before the MPs and this parliament discussed it. The point is that this report is also a legal obligation, to discuss the report. We haven't been able to find out what the State Auditor is going to do about all those irregularities that we've seen and in much of the offense, in one part and the criminal acts, so what he's going to do, we have no one to ask so we can discuss further. If some ministers have committed crimes, as is said in this audit report, and if this is confirmed here in Parliament, then how can we give some money to Serbian citizens again in the hands of these ministers. Is there sound logic and common sense? Of course not. And that was why you said earlier, Madam President, I wrote it down because for the first time I heard that our proposal to put it on the agenda is not "insulted", whatever that means. We know it's on time. What does it mean he's not "insulted"? Does that mean he wasn't in the rain or in the sun, we didn't really understand. Of course, we would have to know here, when this audit institution is already working, when this job is going to be done, when two thirds of the work is going to be done, when the control and audit of public enterprises, which is the biggest problem in terms of finance, when the financing will be reviewed, will be audited by the financing of political parties, when will we find out how this fabulous money can be spent by parties that don't get any money from the budget? There are a lot of questions we would have asked for an answer if you'd allowed, in accordance with the law, to discuss this report... (President: It's been five minutes. )......................................................................................................... Let me just finish my sentence, and then we should've talked about the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33521	Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33522	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, gentlemen of Ministers, Mrs Dragutinovic, expect your colleagues from EU countries to hurry to Serbia and be your guests, to give them one copy of this budget, that they too see how they should do. The 2010 budget was followed by a series of irregularities and a series of events that you tried to hide from the public in Serbia, including from MPs to avoid going through a procedure that was common in previous years. No matter what structure the budget was, but it had some phasing out, it had legally set deadlines which, except for last year, were more or less respected. Madam President of Parliament, on several occasions you said, when you were pointed out that the budget proposal was delayed, that the government was late this year to adopt the 2010 draft budget, well, that's earlier than it was in previous years. We cannot cover ourselves with the mistakes of the preceding period in such a way that we will only call upon them. I guess after nine years the Doss regime authorities were taught and what they hadn't learned in nine years was to be learned. The fact, as the prime minister said, that the draft budget was adopted unanimously by the government, suggests that this was adopted pro-forms. I am absolutely sure that a number of ministers in this government, the truth not great, wanted Serbia's citizens well and tried to point out some objections and problems and tried to favour those values that might enable employment, allow, as you like to say, transparent spending of funds. Mrs Dragutinović, yes, I would say, is a prominent expert in public finances. I'm not an economist, let's get along right now, but from my humble experience and knowledge to conclude it. You often have a problem with what you say in the media – we could support it, point out and mark all the problems in public finances and policy implementation in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and then when you come here to Parliament, I guess someone from the government gives you a sharp criticism, you tell a whole other story. Agriculture growth in 2009 was said to have been higher than usual in the previous period. It's a good thing Mr. Dragin's here. He probably wasn't a man who didn't do anything, but right away I have to tell you that your merits and your contribution were small and minor compared to what the peasants or the paori, as they say in Vojvodina, tried to do in that area, or in that branch. Very often in the harvest season, crops, raspberries and other agricultural cultures, your assistants went out, their opinion and you share, or what was passed on to you – they cannot set prices. They can't set ransom prices, but they can help farmers. When we speak in the debate in principle, we will specifically suggest how it is handled. We can't deal with something at this point being impossible, because the law has prescribed it in one way, so we can't do it, but in the SRS, since we talk to farmers every day, we know how we can do it. We are not selfish people we can pass on to you, and I suppose you will show such good intentions and that it will be accepted. This does not apply to amendments to this budget, but to the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, which should be led in 2010, if we want to keep that growth that agriculture had in the following year, i.e. to lead to quality. Many people have become aware that this is our work that can make good and healthy income, but it needs help from the state. She needs to be organized, not texting that there's something we can't do and that we can't interfere. I'm allowed to create an ambience. That's what you're supposed to do. An improved credit rating, says the prime minister of the government, probably in one part, is, but don't tell us about improving credit ratings, if it's... (President: It's been five minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry, just to finish, so if recent research has shown that out of 180 countries, Serbia is 83rd in corruption, then on improving credit ratings, it is directly related to another, we cannot be proud and boastful of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33523	Mr. Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33524	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the microsurgery of a state, and the most dangerous service in the state is the Ministry of Finance and its extended arm – the tax administration, which can break the economy in a very short period of time without great fuss and without great shit. Serbia has the largest administration in the world. In addition to 25 ministries, there are 111 other bodies and funds, so it is no wonder that the 2010 budget is planned to amount to 714 billion dinars. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament must be the only, final budget controller. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must be a key place to control the spending of money on taxpayers and other taxpayers, who are pouring into that leather purse, as the French call it. Parliament must be responsible for the government's supervision and for its interpretation of budget costs. The government cannot spend money from the budget or impose taxes beyond Parliament. The State Auditor's task is to provide the National MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the information they need to control the government with regard to budget spending. Here, we've had our chance, but we're not allowed to get to the first report of the budget auditor. In some countries, a budget spending report is delivered three times a year. In 1878, the first audit institution was established in Canada. The publication of the report by the general auditor in the media is a common practice in many EU countries and in other non-European countries. The submission of the Report to Parliament should be the key to the caution and effectiveness of the State Auditor. The State Auditor is obliged to answer the following questions to the MPs: 1) Do the Government's statements on financial issues give an accurate and detailed representation of its financial affairs? 2) Are all the taxes and other charges that the Government collects accountingly prescribed and are they recorded as such? 3) Was the money approved by the legislator spent on the purpose for which it was intended? A particular problem, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, is that there has been no final account in Parliament since 2001, and it is not possible to determine whether and to the extent that budget procedures are good, especially without the revision of the final budget account and the revision of budget procedures, whether these measures have been taken so far taken to the extent that the budgetary system reform is quite good, whether they produce results and are already proposed to the new latest amendments to the law, which do not have a fundamentally or large element, nor give a divine contribution to what a positive contribution. And this is also how to identify the final result of the budget's operations as a financial document, and this is a methodology for calculating the functions of budget deficits, and what is most terrible, in the course of the report itself and the duration of that period. So, ladies and gentlemen, budget and budget spending is a significant component of aggregate demand that has an impact on prices and economic balance. For these reasons, budgetary policy is integrated into the general economic policy of a single country. As part of anti-inflation policy, and particularly in the state of inflation, demand, the budget represents a significant instrument of demand compromise, the state then runs a restrictive budgetary policy, reduces state spending and implements budget surplus policies. Otherwise, in the context of overcoming economic depression, the increase in budget spending increases the aggregate demand and thus stimulates and revives the various branches of the economy, if it comes to inflation, costs, reducing budget revenues... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-11-0.u33525	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Dear People's MPs, esteemed members of the government, for today we have finished our work, tomorrow we will continue with the participation of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking the Finance Committee to hold a session by the start of our work tomorrow, which is at 1:00. Also, I would like to inform the honourable MPs that at 6 p.m. we will continue our voting day activities.
