ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18515	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 103 national MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 84 MPs in the hall, so that we can continue our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelena Travar-Miljević, Željko Ivanji, Milos Aligrudić, Branko Ružić and Elvira Kovac. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the proposing representatives, I invited the sittings to be attended by Vuk Djokovic and Dr Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs Ruzica Stojiljković, Assistant Director at the Treasury Office. I also invited the sittings to attend on agenda item 5 Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Shormaz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 235 and today it is Tuesday, we are asking questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are not getting answers within the foreseen deadline, not one more question asked by the DSS Parliament Club in accordance with the Rules of Procedure we have not received an answer. However, it has begun to be a practice that we do not get answers from the National Assembly’s leadership, so we have not even learned why this time of savings is projected 24 million for the use of software for the E-parliament or for construction, who has decided to build external lighting around the Assembly for 55.5 million or why some official cars are driven by secretaries and staff of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, while other employees use city transport in Belgrade? Why are cars photographed by the BG-02-03 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at markets, specifically at the market in Vidovac? Who's going to use an official car for such purposes? The government doesn't answer any questions. For example, we have asked a question about the involvement of our soldiers, i.e. The army of the Republic of Serbia in Georgia last week. It is said everywhere, in the media, the ministers talk about it in the media, but the National Assembly does not get an answer when it asks questions on the same topic. It's the government's relationship to this National Assembly. We have 20 seats planned for the government. Yesterday, the government's relationship with the National Assembly was also shown when the agreement was ratified with the Russian Federation was discussed. We assume that if he comes, we hope that visa liberalisation will come with the EU, as my colleague Popovic said yesterday, that all 28 ministers and the Prime Minister will come here and likely sit on each other, but yesterday there was no one when it came to visa liberalisation with the Russian Federation. I have to repeat the question. Seven days ago, I set him up, a little less than seven days ago, Prime Minister, he was present and he didn't respond. Who made the decision and when, we have a statement from the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Defence that it was discussed on 25 December 2008, and that it is some conclusion of the government, but it does not say on anyone's proposal, which ministry has proposed, and we see that now it is a very current topic, certain NGOs are preparing to start collecting signatures, perhaps even today, for the replacement of certain ministers, but no one to give us information on whose proposal, when and who made the decision to hire soldiers in NATO action? Now he's trying to replace the thesis and say it's a partnership for peace. No, it's not, it's a NATO action in Georgia on the border with Russia. Whoever made the decision to send our soldiers there, contrary to the 140th Constitution, which says - Serbia's army can be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If this was discussed in the government on December 28th, until today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has not received any paper related to engagement. I will now introduce you to the fact that a total of 19 soldiers and police officers of Serbia are engaged in other missions – Congo, Liberia, Ivory Coast, and that never has the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified this. So right now it's 19, now it's about Russia's reaction to the state's interest not sending those soldiers. Who made the decision six months ago to send and who was it that didn't know to predict what Russia's reaction would be? Who is it and whose proposal is it and will the Government of the Republic of Serbia answer that question already?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18517	The word is Mr. Batic, Dr. Vladan.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18518	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the first question is for the Minister of Ecology and Spatial Planning. When there was a set of environmental laws on the agenda, I asked what would be done by the competent ministry in connection with the enormous pollution of the environment in the area of Obrenovac municipality, which stems from the Termopower Plant "Nikola Tesla" A and B, where both the country and the water and air are polluted, and where the number of cancerous diseases is enormously increased, the diseases of respiratory organs, and it is intended to build another thermopower plant, the thermopower plantNikola Tesla 3 or B2 on the mouth, it is on the road of Šabac – Obrenovac. I didn't get the answer. Meanwhile, there have been two incidents. Ten days ago and five or six days ago from the ashes of the "Nikola Tesla B" thermal power plant in the mouth, such that the local villages of Grabovac, Dren and Usce, as if they were living in the Sahara, had to be shut up in houses for hours, because the sky had not been seen from the dust that rose from the ashes. These people are second-class citizens or who knows what order. That dust penetrates closed freezers, bags in closed freezers. Who's responsible for that? The Ministry's in charge of the Obrenovac municipality? I believe the people responsible are at Nicola Tesla's Termo Power Plant. What will the team do about it? Speaking of Obrenovac, a question for the Minister of Economy and the Ministry of the Interior – who is responsible for the fact that Hidrograding in bankruptcy is part of its location, which it has never brought to its end, at the best position in Obrenovac, although when in bankruptcy it cannot sell it, it sold to a private investor, even though the location because it was not brought to the end was supposed to be returned to the Obrenovac municipality? Who's responsible for that? The third question is for Mrs. Markovic. She has become the minister of sport and youth by nothing. When will the sport law be passed? When will it be determined who will be the owners of sports clubs? No matter what I'm a Red Star fan, I mention and ask, will the state do anything to prevent the agony of the club that celebrated this country, which was European and world champion, because I see that many in political circles, both in some interesting spheres and among your businessmen and tycoons have an interest in having the Red Star fail. This has nothing to do with the Star, even its fans, having to do with an institution that has celebrated in the world this country and this people, so I ask the Sports Minister, if she knows there's a football club called Red Star, what is it going to be and will something be done on behalf of the state, because it's a state issue, to prevent its agony and its collapse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18519	The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18520	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I am not talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but on the basis of Article 88(2), I am asking you for the necessary explanation regarding the work on the session relating to direct television transmissions. What interests all MPs here, and in the first place of the MPs of the SRS, who has decided that direct transfers go into the delayed area if the session takes place after 1800 hours? We don't understand what's more important than the budget rebalancing debate. Last night, around 6:00 p.m., the National Service or the one who has the authority to decide on this gave some kind of quiz, a contribution to fishing, and the delayed transfer began very likely after midnight. We think this is totally inappropriate and inadmissible, which is why it is challenging the work and purpose of any debate in the Serbian parliament. So either we'll be working on the Rules of Procedure on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays until 6:00 p.m. or, if you give us reasonable reasons, we haven't heard them so far, that we're extending the work, then we demand that this work be extended, or that direct transfers be carried out while the debate takes place in the Assembly. So far in the last ten days, it has not happened that there is so much important material that will affect the delayed transfer of such important discussions, and that they are important, you have convinced us that you have adopted such a restrictive Rules of Procedure, that we are late to adapt our laws to EU laws, and then deny yourself by not having a direct transfer to the National Service. This last night was totally unacceptable and inadmissible, so that one quiz, fishing contributions, would replace the budget rebalancing debate and please do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18521	You have just abused the Institute of Advertising of the Rules of Procedure, but I will set out something that can fit into the time at your disposal, and it is about the fact that you have the right to request an explanation and notice from me. So what's in all the acts that oblige us to work is to provide the public with work. Whenever it is possible for sessions to go through the form of direct transmission, it happens, but in some situations delayed transmission also provides the public with the work, and therefore there is no abuse or violation of our rights. I fully agree that the Rules of Procedure that we are going to bring should specify the way of direct transmission and when it is, and that it is not best in formal terms, but we are going to miss it to the commission or working group that is working on this, to respect this suggestion of yours, although it has not been timely, you have actually abused the Institute of Injuring the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18522	On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to address the Citizens' Protector, to commend him for a statement condemning the interference of the state authorities in the work of the judicial authorities, to ask him why the statement is not identical for both the assistants or the state secretaries who intervened in the trial, why is it his excuse for one of them to repent and cooperate with him? And to ask him if he is ready to do the same in the case of Mladjan Dinkic, who directly requested the suspension of bankruptcy at a company bought by his friend Goran Novakovic, and whether he is ready to ask Mr Dinkic to resign and finally get off the back of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18523	The word has Mr. Fremond Arpad as an authorised representative of his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18524	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, I would like to ask more questions to Mr Sashi Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Water and Forestry. Namely, the Ministry of Agriculture on 26 February 2009 adopted a Regulation on the use of funds to support non-competition agricultural land that was to be valid for 2009. At the time, Serbia and the world were already in a deep world economic crisis, so we knew this year would be very difficult for Serbia. Of course, when this regulation came out, our farmers, the pensioners, who receive the smallest pension in Serbia, began to report the holdings as non-commercial. The non-commercial holdings belong to those farmers who retired before 1986, and they could use the 40,000 provided for in this Regulation. This tape of hope went on short because the Ministry of Agriculture, after 45 days, abolished the validity of the provisions on the use of funds to support non-sustainable agricultural land, with the Regulation on termination. During the registration, I can tell you that senior farmers have had a lot of difficulties. In the north of Bačka, if it hadn't been for the agricultural advisory service, many of them wouldn't have applied. Through these offices, which have been funded in many places by the Ministry of Agriculture and some municipalities, with much patience and effort paper has been arranged to get this little help. It is unfortunate that most of the old farmers have struggled for days to obtain the necessary documentation. They traveled from village to town to do all that. They'd leave their bosses to their neighbors and waste all their days and time. It is even sadder that the Ministry of Agriculture is reducing the ministry's reputation by such moves, as all the rules and regulations we adopt should apply during this year. My question is - how many farmers from 26.02.2009 to 15.04.2009 registered land as non-commercial? The second question - who is going to compensate farmers for the registration and is the Ministry of Agriculture willing to do so? I'm interested -- why did the Ministry of Agriculture have to bring in such a regulation, when it knew well in February, that there was no money in this year? In the opinion of us, MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the Ministry did not have to deceive our farmers. Instead of getting help, the old farmers lost -- and at the beginning of the year when the sowing, when they had little time and when they had already invested everything for this year and now in the end, unfortunately, they can't count on the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18525	The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18526	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected presidents, I will ask for one notice, in front of all the MPs and the public here, to ask you. Namely, what's this about? I think you're all witnesses here that I've been here several times, I think I've asked Minister Markovic six times for an answer on that famous 15-million-dollar amendment to build a ground for people with disabilities. Because of the political morality that I own and New Serbia, I want to say that I have received an answer to that question, but there are a number of interesting issues that raise questions - about the functioning of services in the National Assembly and the National Assembly itself. The minister argues that for the first time, which he has been asking in front of this high house for several months, he only received on 16 April. I hope you've read her answer, since the answer has been given to me personally as a People's Messenger and to you, where she asks you to come from the same place where you gave her a public notice, and if you'll excuse me. I have already pointed several times from this place to some illogicalness in the work of the Assembly, about two halls, about two restaurants, about a car that drives material between the two congregations, and we are talking about saving, about an electronic system that is not very functional. I leave it to you, and that you may answer to the public and the people's messengers. So, for the sake of political morality and honesty, I would like to say that Minister Markovic responded and that some steps have been taken. I will be free to follow, as an amendment promoter, adopted in this National Assembly, the realisation of this amendment, or the means to be invested for purpose purposes. This time that I have left, I would like to take advantage of and invite you, Madam President, to exercise your right to immediately invite the Minister of Health, Mr Milosavljevic, to come to the Assembly. It is the subject of budget rebalancing, but in budget rebalancing is also the Ministry of Health. To address all citizens of Serbia and to say - what our country, what our health system is doing - so no one here doubts, and neither do I - and so on. The swine flu, which isn't already that, is human flu because it's passed on from man to man? I believe it is necessary and I have no doubt that our state and health system will do everything it can, but mildly said to prevent the spread of panic, as cases of infected people are approaching Serbia's borders, I think it would be responsible for the citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly for the health minister to arrive during the day -- to address both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18527	As far as the first question is concerned, I would like to say that I have the assurances of professional services that, directly on every issue in this room, or at the home of the National Assembly, questions are being forwarded to the resolution ministers. Of course, I will press your specific question in front of the professional services and inform you of that. On your second question, Mr. Health Minister has spoken to the public through all the media. He plans to address the government and - if the government assesses that there is a need for MPs to have more information than other citizens, I personally don't think that's necessary, but if the government does, it has the opportunity to talk about it. What is very important is that very valid information relating to the possible influenza pandemic is already going public through media funds and that Mr. Minister has taken the first step in this. The word is Mr. Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18528	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister and Representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable People's MPs, I have received a letter from the Association of Truth on NOB, the Committee on Vojvodina, asking that, in connection with the address they have made to the Ministry of Culture, and they have not received an answer, that we may direct it, which I am now doing. I will be free to read only two paragraphs from that letter and then ask the question: "Unofficially we find out that in the building of the Vojvodina Museum, at the address of Danube 37, certain technical actions are being carried out, and that there is a change in the purpose of this building, and the decision of the appropriate authority, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has not been made before, because this building is owned by the Republic. Although, therefore, there is no change in the immovableity record, and in practice this building is promoted as the exhibition space of the Museum of Contemporary Art, which has already been tried in 2001. Already then, the unsuspected promoters were aware that the facility was owned by the Republic and that they had no authority to give their intention, or the fact that it was not just about providing accommodation for the Museum of Contemporary Art, but about devasting the permanent position of the newer history of Vojvodina. The question arises why the Founder of the Museum does not seek other solutions. Unofficially, it is found that the intention of those who clean the museum of documents from the NOB period is to take something or everything from the present Museum to the Batin Battle complex, which is also devastated on purpose. On behalf of the Society of Truth about NOB, the Committee on Vojvodina, as well as the Union of Antifascists of the City Committee in Novi Sad, the strongest protest against the devastion of the Vojvodina Museum. ''Please resort the Ministry of Culture to answer what is true and what is happening in this case? Secondly, I suggest that the competent ministry take appropriate measures to prevent the actions that are now going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18529	The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush, for the second time. You didn't use all the time you had at your disposal. You have three minutes left, within five minutes, although it's not usual to share time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18530	It wasn't my intention either, but I really wanted you to consult, since five minutes were scheduled, I had some more questions. Your interpretation was for Article 88, or Section 2 does not speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it was not my intention to speak of injury, but of receiving a concrete notice from you. So in the time that's scheduled and thank you for this opportunity, in the next three minutes, I think what's most important is actually the workers who are in privatized enterprises. Also, the fact that certain tycoons, which have purchased companies by a very strange model of privatisation, are mostly not implementing social programmes that form part of the purchase contract, and we are experiencing an increasing number of workers. What is another shameful fact is the insistence by Mr Homen and Ilic, state secretaries in the ministries of justice and finance, who demanded the freezing of legal disputes indefinitely. They showed us and confirmed that there is an increasingly frequent violation of workers' labour rights and that the state wants to delay the resolution of all these disputes indefinitely, which is outrageous. What we want to know, as soon as possible, is that we hope to get an answer, is a concrete question – what are the state authorities doing to stop the faceless violation of the law from unconscious owners of privatisation companies? That's the first question. Secondly, given the fact that about 1,900 companies are privatized, we want accurate information - which money, in what amount are these companies privatised and how are they targeted, or spent, privatisation funds? And the third question – given that there was an incident in the Ćupri Municipality's Assembly yesterday, because it was meant to decide on the storage of certain waste in the territory of the municipality of Ćupri, the residents of the place are very scared. We expect accurate information from the Ministry of Environmental Protection on what kind of waste is the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18531	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Budget of Serbia for 2009. We continue the search in the details of the First Point of the agenda of the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions to agree on amendments and additions to the 2009 Financial Plans of the Republic of Fund for Pension invalidity Insurance, the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the National Employment Service. On Article 5, section 36, the amendment was submitted by Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 41, the amendment was submitted by Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 50, the amendment was submitted by Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 52, the amendment was submitted by Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 55, the amendment was submitted by Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18532	Dear Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6, I suppose, for both the Minister and the Government, an unexpected amendment, but I have received an expected response from the Government and from your ministry. In fact, Article 6 presents the expenditure side of the budget according to the programme classification, and that is well and commendable, but given what ministries are covered by this classification, I have submitted this amendment for a simple reason why the Government has in fact fully elaborated on the idea of the programme budget. In the response you provided me, that the amendment is being rejected, which I naturally expected, what I expected was this finding that the amendment promoter is basically right when it states that five ministry pilots do not correspond to the basic idea of the budgeting programme model according to the content of their expenditures. That was my idea and the reason I submitted this amendment. I strongly recommend that, once you are defined for the programming classification, you process the Ministry of Economics and Regional Development. We would love and be very happy if Mr Dinkic's expenditure side of the ministry was shown according to the programme classification, and finally as parliament, as MPs and as citizens, had insight into which programmes this money is spent and justified, in particular, those programmes, and should also apply to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Energy. I knew you wouldn't accept this amendment, but I am essentially pleased with your answer, where you gave me the right to submit this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18533	On Article 6th, 57 amendments were submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Mr. Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18534	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, investment in the development of trade in travel costs, service costs, other costs that have no concrete result and we don't know what will come out of it, I think they are completely unnecessary, especially in budget rebalancing. That is why we have proposed that this ministry's proposal under number 1501/04 be abolished, because it would cost five and a half million dinars per contract. What are services under contract? Specialized services – two million dinars. Also, we don't know what specialized services are. To improve the market – one and a half million dinars. We don't know this particularly. It is a specific department of trade, and it has been an interesting result in recent years. It could really be the subject of a larger analysis. There are good things in the past, but there are a lot of bad ones, and I think in this case, specifically with this amendment, these funds should be channelled towards the Development Fund, and specifically shifted to support in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18535	In Article 6 of Sections 57 and 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18536	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Madam Minister, the proposed amendment provides for a reduction of funds for the item – services under the agreement of the Ministry of Trade and Services by one million and a half dinar, while also predicting an increase in funds for the same amount to support the programme of prevention and early detection and treatment of malignant cancer of the arms of the womb, breast and colon. On the one hand, the reduction of funds for services under the contract is exactly necessary to rationalise the costs of the state administration, because otherwise we could think that the government, besides the existing employees, wants to employ additional staff, which will also cost taxpayers, i.e. citizens. The essence of this amendment is that by increasing health funds, an accent is placed on anti-cancer programmes, as prevention and early detection of malignancies, whose number unfortunately is on the rise, can prevent or lead to complete cure of the disease. An example of breast cancer that affects every 12 women in Serbia. If discovered in time, the disease in 90% of cases is completely treatable. For this, the conditions of building up social awareness on the need for regular examinations, as well as adequate preparation of healthcare institutions, are essential to be prepared to provide all answers regarding this disease. Serbia is unfortunately the first infamous place in Europe by the number of women suffering from uterus cancer, which is also treatable almost entirely if it is detected early. The problem is that in Serbia, the rate of incidence and mortality is increasing, i.e. the frequency and mortality of this disease. This programme aims to act preventively and educationally, and the ultimate gain is the fact that prevention is much more effective and cheaper than treatment alone. So, increasing funds for this item this time is actually long-term savings for citizens, and invaluable is that the nation will be healthier. I am sorry that the government has not shown understanding of this amendment, and in its explanation, it has said that it does not deny the need to provide additional funding for those programmes in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, but that the possibilities are not such that they could be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18537	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to article 6th division 57. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Slobodan Vuković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Jadranka Vuković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, division 57, the amendment was submitted by Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, sections 57 and 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18538	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6, believing that something beyond what is necessary, that the funds from the Ministry of Trade, which are in that position, I will explain why they are in that position, should be transferred to another position and given to the Ministry of Health, in order for the Ministry of Health to finance a very important institution, such as the Institute of Virology and Immunology, the Torak Institute. We have been witnessing for a long time that there is a shortage of vaccines and serums on our market. We are also witnessing that these vaccines and serums are often bought by parents whose children should be vaccinated, but we are also witnessing that when transporting these vaccines and serums, due to inadequate conditions, these vaccines are completely depreciated and that they cannot be used for the right purposes. Why did I assume to transfer it from the department of the Department of Commerce? Because of a very interesting fact, because it is in the position of the Ministry of Trade, it says that NGOs are being funded, and you are witnessing that twenty days ago an unfavorable incident broke out regarding an NGO that was financed from the position of the Ministry of Trade. It is the NGO "Reaction", which falsely accused Serbia's Clinical Centre, our most prominent doctors, of having a kidney stolen from the patient. You see how money from taxpayers' budgets is used to fund such NGOs, and for what is beyond the needs of the Serbian state, to restore the work of an institute, there is no money for it. I hope the finance minister accepts this and finds the money to restore the production of the Torlak Institute vaccine and serum.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18539	On Article 6, division 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, division 57, the amendment was submitted by Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18540	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 and the intention of this amendment is to assist in the realization of projects and programs of churches and traditional religious communities. In fact, in the projection of its budget, the government has not allocated sufficient resources for the implementation of church programmes and traditional religious communities. For these reasons, we say that this government has not allocated enough funds to start church facilities, to reconstruct old and renovate old church facilities. We only remember the March demonstrations in 2004, when Albanian separatists and Albanian terrorists defiled a large number of our sanctities in Kosovo, defiled a large number of our cultural heritage in Kosovo. My opinion is that this 300 million is just a drop in the sea to help our church and build these religious facilities in Kosovo. I would also remind you that the previous two governments of Vojislav Kostunica have built more religious sites from World War II until 2003 than any other government has ever done before. For these reasons, I expect this government to accept my amendment, in order to preserve our cultural heritage in Kosovo, so that our church, the SPC, can continue to function on KIM. On that behalf, I expect you, Madam Minister, to accept this amendment of mine and I hope you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18541	On Article 6, division 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, division 57, the amendment was submitted by Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 57, the amendment was submitted by Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, sections 57, 59 and 61, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić-Markovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18542	Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the DSS and my amendment concerns that the amount of 2.7 million – given to the Ministry of Trade and Services and to the unilateral application of the SAA, which has never been recorded anywhere and which is completely unnecessary at this time for Serbia – is transferred to one part, or a million for the competition of students in the Ministry of Education, for the founding, and another part of 1.7 million to transfer to the Ministry of Religion and to help churches and religious communities, i.e. a total of 1.7 million assistance to the clergy and monasticism at KIM. Why did the DSS submit such an amendment? This latest EPP, as the government calls its economic measures to help Serbia out of the crisis, will actually have no positive effect and Minister Mrs Dragutinovic, it is quite clear because I see in the explanation she gave on my amendment. On the other hand, the government is the generator of the crisis, because there is no policy that will bring the country out of the crisis. The government is the generator of it because it has no knowledge. It's obvious these measures are unrelated, they're not enough and they're obviously too late. The government must be aware that only talented people with competences and skills, the government, unfortunately, has no knowledge or authority to do so, and therefore is the basis for the start of the primary school students' competition. As so little resources have been allocated to the budget, the DSS has defined that one part of these funds, taken from the implementation of the SAA, which has no effect on Serbia, has a positive effect, but has a negative effect, because we are devoting a great deal of resources for it, and as we can see in the explanation, the Minister explained that it does not accept the amendment in part and because these funds have already been spent in the Ministry of Trade, which means that the rebalancing is just a farce, should cover what has already been spent. Furthermore, the situation in KIM is also dramatic, and those who maintain life there are both clergy and monasticism located in churches and monasteries, and I think that is why it is necessary to separate funds and to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18543	On Article 6th, 58 amendments were submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment was submitted by Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment was submitted by Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment was submitted by Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment was submitted by Radis Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment was submitted by Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment was submitted by Momchilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 59, the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 59, the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 59, the amendment was submitted by Donka Banovic. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18544	I have submitted an amendment to the main programme, which is the secondary education under this section, where I propose a different distribution of funds under the main programme, i.e. that 60 million dinars are allocated for travel expenses per item – ongoing repairs and maintenance of school facilities. There are many school facilities in Serbia that are in very poor condition. In principle, local self-government has an obligation to maintain school facilities on their territory. Among other things, local self-government has an obligation to finance professional training of teachers working in schools on the territory of local self-government. I know from practice, and probably other MPs do, that local self-government very often does not meet their obligations. I do not know that some local self-government has been punished for failing to implement the budget in the way in which the annual budget of the local self-government is provided. What scares me is that at a time when transfers to local self-government will be reduced, they will just decide to save on education. There will be fewer funds to maintain school facilities and there will be fewer funds for the professional training of teachers. Therefore, I think that in the time of savings it is necessary for local self-government to point out that it must not be spared when it comes to education and that more is taken into account how funds are used for these jobs are used. Therefore, I think the amendment is good and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18545	On Article 6, split 59, the amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. The government accepted this amendment and became an integral part of the proposed text. On Article 6, section 59, the amendment was filed by Zoran Shami. Would you like a word, Mr. Shami? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18546	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, this is the fourth budget on which I am giving the same amendment essentially. I gave the previous government the same amendment. This is the following: the 2009 budget envisioned working with talented students of 10 million dinars, which is little and too little, and now it has been reduced to 7.4 million. What does that mean, practically? If there are only 1,000 talented students in Serbia, and I am convinced there are more, this means that, according to one student, 7,400 dinars per year or about 600 dinars per month. I don't think that deserves any comment. On the other hand, 99 comas somewhat per cent of the budget for the Ministry of Education wastes on salaries and direct costs. The creative part is almost nothing. There's no need to assure you how important it is to cultivate talented children, so before they really need any special resources. The explanation of the government that refused this amendment does not stand at all. It is said that there are some money for talented children in the social programme elsewhere. It's not about the social program, it's about spending that money in one meaningful way that can and must create the Ministry of Education. If the Ministry of Education is already spending almost 100% of its expenditure on salaries and material costs of schools and colleges, then we can go free, honestly tell you, to end the Ministry of Education and be the first government in the world to end it. Namely, if there is nothing creative for the Ministry of Education to do, there are enough to be done by two officials who are going to enter payments to schools. Then we don't need the Ministry of Education. Of course we do, but we need it just for business like this. By the way, I asked that those funds be reduced from the position of paying for the work contract, because, excuse me, the work contracts could be spared. I worked 30 and a few years in education, and I know it best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18547	On Article 6, division 59, the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18548	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to a member relating to the Ministry of Education - secondary education, and this cost of travel and maintenance. I proposed this amendment to cut travel costs by 50 million, as travel costs were reduced by only 12,471,000, and on the other hand, the costs for repairs and maintenance were reduced by budget rebalance by 27,217.000. With this 50 million increase, which I propose to transfer from travel costs to repair and maintenance costs, I would essentially like to influence, as much as the DSS parliamentary group, as far as possible, to improve working conditions in secondary education schools, especially for the reasons that local self-government transfer funds have been reduced, and we know that a large part of these funds go precisely to cover the material costs associated with the maintenance of these schools and the material for these schools. I believe that this amendment is completely relevant, because we know in what state, first of all, schools in undeveloped areas, that students should be created as well as possible conditions for work, such as in these conditions and this economic crisis. I expect this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18549	On Article 6, division 59, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 59, the amendment was submitted by Sladjan Mijaljević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 59, the amendment was submitted by Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 59, the amendment was submitted by Vesna Marić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 59, the amendment was submitted by Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 59, the amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 59, the amendment was submitted by Marina Ragush. Would you like a word, Mrs. Ragush? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18550	What was supposed to be the reason for this amendment is that in Article 6, split 59, which refers to grants to NGOs, and I'm going to look to be as precise and clear as possible because of citizens whose classification means nothing, we wanted to replace the amount of seven million and four hundred thousand with a drastically smaller amount, which is two million and four hundred thousand. What we think is necessary is that the expenditures of budget users are reduced to real terms precisely because of the global financial crisis and the savings in state bodies. I now announce that I will most likely use the time foreseen for the parliamentary group. What should be said to the citizens of Serbia, what we have received as a justification for not accepting this amendment, is that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the funds under this programme are the regulation and supervision in the area of education, the grant of NGOs is reduced by 26% by the bill, so that further reduction would endanger the functioning of surveillance in the area of education. The truth is, the Assembly has a problem in overseeing the executive government. As far as yesterday we had a situation where a representative of the proposings we intended to ask a few very significant questions for the functioning of both states and systems, we failed to do so. As a very clear lesson, I took over the initiative and certain protocols from the Foreign Ministry site, I read it myself, so instead of the legislator. Very often when we are in a position to ask specific questions to resolutional ministries, answers or not to receive or receive a terrible delay. Also, when we are often in a position to perform surveillance, which is a function based on Article 99, and to ask concrete questions to the representatives of the authorities, we cannot because they are not there. Also, what is a certain kind of surveillance should happen during the debate in particular, let's say when it comes to one of the most important topics, which is budget rebalancing. So whoever decides, the pink role of parliament, and dissipates it is that citizens will no longer want to go to elections, because first neither respects their electoral will nor does parliament itself come down to a completely pointless function. We have a direct transmission that replaces the quiz or contributions to fishing. Today we have heard that this public work may appear in perspective through certain statements or certain news reports. We are completely, completely sure, licking the senseless work of Parliament. The control of the work of the executive authority is definitely not allowed. We don't have final accounts, we don't have final accounts. We're blind in the way we all spend money. On the other hand, as we have examples of illegal and non-intentional spending, where we can think of it, we form anti-corruption councils, we comb all those reports, and then we tell the citizens. Also, one of the facts that has been happening lately, and somehow apparently the most paid by the SRS is very likely because it has mostly asked very awkward questions to those who actually rule Serbia and who have concentrated in their hands terribly large capital and are slowly eating everything that is the working class of Serbia, was in fact the submission of a huge number of amendments that directly meant the abolition of pointless agencies. They have so far failed to fulfil any of the functions provided for by law. What are we particularly pleased about? We are now confirmed by representatives of the ruling coalition, so today Mr. Milan Markovic said what he has been trying to do to the amendments to the SRS for so long. Among other things, Mr. Markovic says: "There is no dilemma that we have too many ministries, there is no dilemma that it is possible to be less resor. I'm getting a little bit more eyed by the government agency whose creation didn't justify the goal. By abolishing certain agencies whose competencies would return under the authority of the state administration, we would achieve significant, much greater savings than if we cut the number of ministries." When it comes to this, the SRS gets a brutal and dirty campaign in the media. When a representative of the government is talking about it, we still don't know what to say about this. What is a system that obviously works according to the measure of those who have turned the political scene and who rule Serbia from the shadows is actually a system that does not work in the interests of citizens. By the fact that the function of the MPs of the people has been disfigured, by slowly but surely by a state campaign, by campaigning by the executive government, slowly but surely by putting ourselves on the verge of all events. Why? It's exactly what a representative of the government confirms. We have been saying all along that the agencies, which are designed in the way they are designed, and you have convinced us that this is the standard that the EU requires, have now so much burdened the budget that we are now all in trouble. Also, the system itself and a completely pointless economic policy have mulled any production and economic activity. Why? Because in the state of Serbia, it was only cost-effective and certain to work within state and para-state structures. Now we have over 30,000 workers from the state administration, and in 2000 there were about eight thousand. In the perspective of six months of deployment, you have the social and economic problems of all these people who, by no means, deserve to be left out of work. What I very often ask myself as a question, does it even make sense that what we are talking about during any debate, given that any particular problem and any specific appeal by the representatives of the authorities to come and answer certain questions, because parliament is the one who has the power to do so, we get silence. Here's what's going on. Under all that silence, which is recognizable for the state of Serbia, the world's huge dissatisfaction with which, as we also learn from the media, the state's secretaries have asked that working-law disputes be postponed indefinitely. Why? Because the violation of labour rights in the perspective will be everyday. That, ladies and gentlemen, is just one of the situations that has fueled the huge social problems that are in the perspective between May and October. And then? Then there won't be a force that won't be able to stop unsatisfactory people at over 70%, that should be distracted, that have nothing more to lose. When it comes to people who have nothing more to lose, then it would take power in the shadow behind this executive power to wonder how they would stand before that force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18551	On Article 6, split 59, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 6 of the 59th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 6 of the 59th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was submitted to Article 6 of the amendment by Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was submitted by Dobrislav Prelic to article 6. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was submitted to Article 6 of the amendment by Marko Milenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of Milojkovic submitted to Article 6 of the 60th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment, Bojan Mladenovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th section of the 60th Amendment was submitted by Ognjen Mihajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Goran Mihajlović submitted to the 6th Section of the 60th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 6th division of the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 61st Amendment was submitted to article 6 by Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milan M. Nikolic submitted to Article 6 of the 61st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th edition of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Nenad Popovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18552	Madam President, this amendment has been proposed to retain the same value of the basis for the calculation of earnings in the state administration. Why? Because our effects are completely unclear, we haven't seen any effects, the calculated effects of the reduction, I don't see the principles. The point is, no one is against reduction, we want reductions, but those reductions have to have a concrete principle. We don't need marketing cuts – we cut the administration a little bit, we cut the salaries a little bit and we get some results, and then a deputy prime minister comes out and he boasts about it. We need reforms, concrete reforms, and the reform should begin from whom? Of course, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think the first point in this reform should be to reduce the number of ministries, I think only Israel has a higher government than we do, and then to reduce the number of state secretaries, assistants, advisors, etc. I think that's exactly where this economic ministry is headed. We need an effective administration, very effective. Salaries must be consistent with that, but this should be approached reformally. If the government couldn't do this now in this rebalancing process, I think it should really be one of the priorities in the next period, not to come back in three or four months -- we need to cut back a little bit, we need to cut our salaries a little bit more, we need to cut the administration... Essential reform is needed, and it can be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18553	The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras, Nenad Popovic and Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18554	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8, where I predict that this Article 8 is deleted for a simple reason, as I have said in an explanation, as I have said to this member to the legal and accepted system of standards in budgetary laws, i.e. this member brings additional uncertainty and willfulness to the management of public finances. In the explanation that I received, those who wrote it say that the government's motive when this member was put in place was completely opposite, means to enter security. Madam Minister, security is brought first of all if there is any trust, and I'm afraid neither we from the LDP, and most citizens have no confidence that the case provided for by this member of the Government will reroute it in a way that is best for both citizens and for the budget, etc. We have so much experience with how the government works, we have so much experience with what is now foreseen with the Solidarity Fund, which will be poured into what you will refuse to anyone who has a higher salary of 40,000 – 10% and more, 100,000 – 15%, etc. Who do you want to give this to for management? That's how you plan to do the same if there's too much of an appraisal to transfer to another one, but it'll all come from the government's decision. As my predecessor said, we've been saying it for days, cut the government. You have 12 ministries. We passed the law in the procedure. Go away, then the citizens will have a little more trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18555	Mr Popovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18556	Of course, according to its amendment, Article 8. Transfer of unused appraisals to the current budget reserve. This suggests that the government can implement changes in its implementation, budget implementation, without consent and debate in the Assembly after the rebalancing. In this way, the government itself can assess what apropriations are important. Personally, at a time of economic crisis, I think it is very important that the citizens of Serbia, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, know where every dinar goes. Since it was in the previous period of practice that the funds were being redeployed, this looks to me, of course, not to be offended by the respected minister who is doing his job with great quality, to this balance of political power within the government, and at one point we will transfer the funds from one appraisal to another. In order for that to not happen, the purpose of this amendment is that the Assembly must be informed if it is transferred from untapped appraisal to the current budget reserve, because it is very important that citizens and the Serbian Parliament have full information. It's not a budget, with deep respect, a private account, so it can be transferred from left to right. It is very important for citizens to be informed of any changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18557	The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18558	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I announce that I will use the time foreseen for the authorised representative under this Article 8. What we have been saying in principle in a united debate, and it is quite inappropriate indeed, Mrs Dragutinovic, which the government has left you at bay, so you sit there yourself, and we are fully aware that you cannot give answers to many questions, but this Article 8 is very interesting, because it finds, and we have drawn attention to this in a united debate in the principle of the draft budget rebalancing law, that in Article 9. The budget law after Article 2 adds a new position 3. It reads: "Extremely in 2009, in case the receipts of the Republic of Serbia's budgets are made less than planned and after the measures laid down in Article 42 are taken. The law on the budgetary system, the government can decide to introduce the amount of the apropriation, which cannot be used, into the current budget reserve." That article 42. The budget system law, all of which, of course, I am speaking in detail because of Serbian citizens, finds that if expenditures increase or decrease during the fiscal year, individual expenditures can be suspended on a proposal from the minister no longer than 45 days. The fifth article concludes that in this case the government would have to inform the National Assembly. We're afraid it won't be like that. Also, the government has the possibility that, after 45 days, certain appraisals simply exclude them from the budget implementation and transfer them to the current budget reserve. This further means – the amount of the appraisal is still on the divisive side of the budget, but are no longer in the role of budget implementation. So maybe that's where we should go back to the economic classification of 551, which I don't think existed in the 2009 Budget Law. It is non-financial assets financed from the funding for the implementation of the National Investment Plan, and the schedule and use of the assets of this appraisal are also carried out under a special government act. You'll agree, completely undefined position. However, if these economic classifications are added together in different sections, there are about 10 billion dinars. This means further that the government can elegantly reduce expenditure realisation, not expenditure itself, as the current budget reserve will increase by an additional 10 billion dinars. So, this member provides the government with discretion over other positions in the budget, with the need to inform the National Assembly. What is our problem that we have been referring to here for a few days, again, I'm getting attached to Mr Popovic, and we don't think that's going to be the case, because we haven't even been informed how they've spent so far. We don't have an audit of the final accounts. What is the tendency with the work of the National Assembly? If the problem arises, we find out and find out that the funds have been unintendedly spent and if we initiate a debate here, the citizens will be denied that kind of debate, even in real time. It is very likely that this kind of debate for this broad discretionary right of the government will be somewhere between three and four in the morning, when rarely anyone can track it, which will say that we are entering one period, and this is based on the practice that we have so far, for which we are empowering the vast government through the discretionary right of available funds, and already the Government has assured us that we cannot trust it. Because the government's representatives and now they're not present at such an important topic during the financial crisis, they're talking about two things. First, to hide certain facts from the MPs, from the opposition in the first place, and from the citizens of Serbia. Secondly, to be afraid of all those awkward questions that say they've completely missed and not only this government, but the course since 2000 has been a complete failure. We are in a huge problem because of poorly-led economic policy, we are afraid that we will not be able to get out of this problem, we are afraid that this problem will mean further that more than 70% of Serbian citizens will live on the edge of existence. During this debate, and hopefully again by 18.00 hours, because I assume that direct transfer of work 18.00 hours will not be due to contributions to fishing or some quizzes, that we will get an answer to this question, because I think the citizens of Serbia deserve this in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18559	The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government has accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Nenad Popovic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18560	Just to thank Mrs. Minister for accepting this amendment. Thus, Mrs. Minister shows her independence and professionalism and quality work. It shows she's always ready for dialogue with opposition representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18561	National MP Milos Radulovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18562	In Article 9a, which reads: "If the number of persons employed by the beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia exceeds the number of employees whose salaries are provided by this budget, the user is obliged to take immediate action from his jurisdiction to bring the number of employees in line with the amount of funds provided by this law for those purposes." I have proposed an amendment adding a new position, which reads: "If the user does not take action from his jurisdiction, the Government is obliged to change the responsible person". In my explanation, I have indicated that most of our laws enforce non-binding norms. For example, the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia was submitted, contrary to the budget law, with a delay of 37 days. The obligation was, as you know, to deliver the 2009 budget until 1.11.2208, and it was only delivered in 7.12.2008. No one was subject to sanctions, and this shows the government’s attitude toward the National Assembly. In particular, I think that the Prime Minister, as well as the resolution minister in charge of the budget, had to bear the appropriate sanctions for not fulfilling these obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18563	The word is Mr. Marash, the authorized representative on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18564	Mr Radulovic has rightly submitted this amendment and has rightly called for it in his explanation of the amendments, however, the explanation we received from the government is very interesting. As Mr Radulovic mentioned, there is a Law on the Budgetary System, there are sanctions, but as usual when it comes to our society, or those who should apply the laws, these laws are not applicable and there are no sanctions. We would very much like someone who is responsible for something and answers, if he has committed a failure, if he has committed a crime or something like that. He says, if the number of employees in the beneficiary of the Republic of Serbia's budget crosses the number of employees; well, we have one ministry whose minister said he would fire a fifth, the budget is down 26% for that ministry. That's 7,000 people. I would like the citizens to know that the campaign led against the Assembly, where it has been said that our receptions are enormous, has 250 of us, Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mladjan Dinkic, under his ministry, has 35,000 people -- advisers, advisers, advisors, assistants, assistants, deputies, agencies, agencies and non-agencies. Come one way or the other, we've been saying it all the time. Give an example, apply the laws. When you apply the laws, when you allow the State Auditing Institution to do its job and enter public enterprises, then let's see how two NIS accounts can be done, so let's see how all public enterprises, among other things, are ahead of the EPS, so we also have Telekom, so NIS, are doing the loss business. However, Telekom has a lower profit twice, but that means something. Few governments should take care of what public enterprises do. The government would hardly have to make sure to lower the number in its administration. This legal provision is fine if you're respected, but you're a witness, too. I know you're in a very difficult situation, when one minister to settle his party you have to allow everything, and act like a prime minister, and act like a government spokesman, and a finance minister, and a minister of economy and regional development. The man himself admitted that he had 35,000 employees under his paw, of course, I don't want to offend. Then the car will break down on one of the budget users that probably nobody cares about. Madam Minister, come away from you, for the hundredth time we repeat from this assembly pay phone, reduce the government. 12 ministries are enough for you. We have passed the law, please read it, so talk to those who are in your environment, Prime Minister and other ministers, show that the government is prepared to take responsibility like all citizens, that the government is ready to give up something. Otherwise, such members of the law will remain just a letter on paper, again the law will not apply, you must show yourself the best example.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18565	The word is Mrs. Ragush Marina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18566	I'll just announce that I'll be using the time foreseen for the MP's group. I'm just getting attached to last night's story, which unfortunately the citizens could follow this morning, but here we are in real time. We got a letter from the owner and employee of local radio and television stations, and listen to what they say in that letter. They said they sent you this letter. I guess you didn't get that, but Serbian citizens should also know how money from the budget is spent. So, the letter says, among other things -- the president and vice president of the RRA Council, that is, the Republic Broadcasting Agency, without any logic, spends the money we pay on behalf of already high broadcasting fees, and do nothing to settle the illegal competition of pirate cells. They may think they're doing something, but the results on the ground are catastrophic. After cleaning Belgrade from pirates, it suddenly stops with the job. In the last six months, instead of reducing and shutting down pirates, we have a situation where they're getting nothing every day. According to our knowledge, there are currently 30% more of them than there were before the competition. They ask questions, given that we got a letter from them, we have an obligation to make this public. So, owners and workers of radio and television stations ask – do we pay for the leadership of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, in the course of the economic crisis, to rent an entire floor in the building of Vasa Čapica 2nd Street at the cost of 180 000 euros for only 2009? Do we pay that floor to be equipped with expensive furniture and equipment at the cost of 50,000 euros? As we have been told, concerned agency workers, because they know that this waste of money can't last much longer, the lease is paid from January 1st, although the RRA still doesn't benefit, or we may be paying to employ more than 20 new people in the RRA since the beginning of 2009, including more people from Novi Sad, which means that, in addition to high wages, additional payments are paid to the DRAs and travel expenses. We don't need to remind you that the president and deputy president of the RRA are from the New Now. While we are trying to keep at least a minimum of workers on our media, only the salaries of new employees will be between 350 and 400,000 euros this year. The trouble is that working relationship is based on people without clear responsibility and any qualifications in the field of broadcasting, and some are prominent journalists from some previous periods. Also, they ask if we pay that the deputy RRA council president, Mr Goran Karadzic, in 2008 would spend more than 10,000 euros on bills in cafes and on daily and official travel expenses in the country, to use the agency's car as a private and to establish a working relationship in the RRA, although the Broadcasting Law prohibits a member of the Council from being employed in the RRA. These are just some of the allegations of really scared and owners and workers of radio-television stations, who are trying and trying to last a month. People with journalistic experience know what journalistic bread looks like – it survives more than it lives. It's a commercial production to keep the family going, and here's how money is spent, which is also on the burden of both owners and workers of radio and television stations. We only hope that during this whole debate in particular, we will touch any area that speaks of the illegal and non-intentional spending of money, budgetary taxpayers, budgetary users, all of us, all of Serbia's citizens, and that in doing so, the citizens of Serbia have not had any opportunity, which the law requires, to see with their eyes the revision of the final accounts. We don't think it's going to, since here's how we read Mr. State Auditor's statements that this practice isn't going to change this year. However, on the other hand, you still have a situation that we will all be in a much worse situation, fully prepared to protect all our rights – because whoever deserves it obviously does not want it. In what way -- I think you'll see it very soon, and I think it's something that this executive authority has to count on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18567	The 8th Amendment was submitted by Radiš Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milan M. Nikolic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Shami. Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18568	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Madam Minister, Article 10 provides for the introduction of two new members, 19a and 19b, whose purpose, on the one hand, is the Minister of Science, and on the other, the competent ministers and the KIM minister, are to issue payment orders. I suggested that the article be deleted. I suggested that a member be deleted for the simple reason that I think these new members are introduced because money is expected not to be enough and then ministers, so to speak, undertake to release payments to those they think should be released. That's not good. That's not good, because with all due respect to Mr. Minister, I don't think the Minister of Science can now assess what projects are worth giving some money to, which are projects, which are otherwise approved of course, such that they may not be given money right now. This introduction of arbitration in either case is not good in any way. It's just that if there's no money, then everyone shares fate and there's nothing for the minister to arbitration. This is simply by some reasonable proportion of money released by users. The point of my amendment is to simply be a member of 19a and a member of 19b, i.e. Article 10 of this Act - deletes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18569	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18570	Madam Chairman, for the purpose of researching research work, it is intended to be paid only to researchers. In this way, the costs of obtaining laboratory equipment, materials and literature will not be financed, and this is a minimum for achieving the objectives of scientific and research work. We think it's necessary to change that. I also think it's inadmissible, in this budget it repeats, that the separation for science is from 0.3 to 0.4 of the gross social product. Of us only less separates from the science of Montenegro, it singles out 0.1% of gross social product. We don't have to compare to Finland and Sweden, they're ten times as much as we are. Let me just say that Slovenia and Croatia stand out three times as much, with Slovenia having a gross social product of $25,000, so their allocations are much, much bigger for scientific and research work. We think it's very important, I don't think this government can do it, but some of the following, we need to make it easier for tax and other incentives to stimulate the private sector to invest in science and development. It's a question of our investment in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18571	Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Milan Veselinović submitted to the 10th amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gojko Radic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed to add a new Article 10a after article 10a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18572	As far as Article 11 is concerned, it is responsible for the purposeless spending of money from the budget. This proposal does not provide for any action relating to the determination of the responsibilities of the person or bodies who have exceeded their powers with regard to the implementation of the budget. It's illogical, it's impossible for someone to spend state money, charged by citizens, and bring it to their senses, and when it's found that he doesn't suffer any criminal acts, let's not have criminal charges, but he would have to, but no professional consequences. As a minimum, he would have to suffer some professional consequences. At a time of crisis, when people are left out of work, when incomes are reduced, when there is a great chance of spreading the gray market and corruption, the rule of law has to react. And as he responds on one side, he must also react to those who exceed their powers and use funds not by purpose from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18573	The People's MP Free Maras has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18574	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this amendment, that is, this article is similar to what we were just talking about. It is a non-intentional spending of funds from the budget, i.e. a large number of users using the budget, and there is a possibility of being unintendedly used. We have come into a situation where the DSS warns you what must be in the law, that I mean nothing bad, that there are sanctions and in the very law on the budget, because the law on the budget system, and as you stated in the explanation, the Law on State Administration, is clearly not applicable enough. I'd like to set an example, and yet he's playing a case for a company. The recent director of a public enterprise is on the question – is it true that this public enterprise financed one political party, he said – it is not possible, we have three parties on the board of directors. From which it was concluded, journalists themselves concluded that it was obvious that all three parties were funding, not just one. I know you agree with your shoulders, but the fact is that it is generally known that public enterprises are used to fund political parties' campaigns, so those who make the first film, and they appear next to one of the presidential candidates or in the political campaign of a political party, get from one public firm an enormous, 400,000 euros to appear logo on a future film. Otherwise, it's the first film director. We have situations where certain television situations receive 600,000-euro sponsorships for some shows, so that the same public company's logo appears. The fact is that non-intentional funds are being spent here, the fact is that public enterprises are doing business with losses, the fact is that there are an extremely large number of employees in these public enterprises and the fact is that no one is responding. For failures, no one is responsible for the state of play in these public enterprises, i.e. for the purposeless use of budgetary and other funds. I therefore again underline, allow the State Auditing Institution to function, and the President of the State Auditing Institution himself would have to take a little account and put an accent on what citizens expect most of it, to control public enterprises. Therefore, any such amendment, which tries to impose, i.e. to provide for a sanction in the budget law, is quite justified, because the other laws that are provided for it, have been given examples just now to violate the Law on the Budgetary System, late for 30 days to deliver the budget to the Republic Assembly, nothing. I think these amendments have an excuse, and the government has a little more responsibility to bear.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18575	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18576	I submitted an amendment to Article 11, i.e. I added that if the beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia in carrying out the expenditure act contrary to the provisions of this law, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, makes a decision to suspend the execution of the relevant apropriations set out by this law to that budgetary user, wrote in the original version, and a misdemeanor is being initiated against the responsible person. The government has not accepted this amendment, and I must say that I am amazed, which is why it has not accepted the amendment, and especially because of the reasons, because it is said in the explanation that according to the Law on the Budgetary System, in the case of commitments for which no funds are provided in the budget, sentences for a responsible person are provided, both as a criminal offence and as a violation. The measures are from the domain of the State Administration Act, so they could not be regulated by the budget law. I don't argue that this is also in the Budgetary System Act and that it's in the State Administration Act. I just want it to be put in addition to this text, that someone who breaks the Budgetary System Act and who unintendedly spends the funds is misrepresented, and otherwise also in the Law on the Budgetary System and in the Law on State Administration. I do not see that my proposal and amendment is in conflict with the law, but on the contrary, I think it is in line with the laws that regulate any violations of those who have budgetary resources, so it seems to me that it is extremely logical and based on this reasoning that the Government has given to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18577	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18578	The purpose of this article is to reduce salary growth in local self-government, because we believe that 7.7% as far as is expected, much, that the maximum can be 4.5% in 2009. The salary in the bodies of local self-government cannot grow at the time of the economic crisis, and this is the maximum I can do, because of some other costs. The economy suffers growing losses and management reform must exist at all levels, and when we get to pay, local self-government must have the same fate as the Republic. I'd like to say something here about cutting wages in public enterprises. We know that many party personnel who are on these functions in public enterprises are now terribly rebelling, especially from one party, who have taken those seats and are rebelling that they will no longer receive salaries of 8000-990 euros, credit cards, travel, cars, etc. These party students, who worked in Belgrade Airport and other structures, should run in competitions for the directors of Magnochroma, the Elektron Industry, the First Five-year-olds, to show their skills there. I met with the workers of the first "First Five-year-old" who are still working in this difficult situation, they do, and that the privatisation process that is taking place there does not take place in accordance with the agreement with the union and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to accept the Union of Petolite Workers and finds the best way to resolve the privatisation process of the "First Five-year-old". It has great importance for Serbia, employs a large number of people, they are highly educated, quality personnel, qualified workers and the entire municipality depends on "The First Five-year-old". The last time the union came here was 600 people, no one received them, and it's really not appropriate for ministers or their state secretaries, who have really so many in the Ministry of Economy, to know their numbers, and their assistants, none found fit to receive the First Five-year-olds' union. We appeal that this is extremely important, that the Ministry, together with the union, is just discussing the privatisation process and finding the best solution. Talk is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18579	National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 12th amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18580	Like my predecessor, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. The essence of this amendment is that there is no increase in the mass of earnings for employees of local self-government. Due to the global economic crisis, the government took a stand to freeze salaries in the state administration, although increases were planned by 2% in April, or 6% in October, and in line with the declared austerity measures, the conclusion is logical. But if, on the other hand, it is possible for local self-governments to grow according to the budget rebalancing proposal by 6.5%, then it automatically means that employees of local self-governments will be more privileged and will be able to have an increase in salaries this year. If everyone has to bear the burden of the crisis, then it is logical and normal to pay in local self-governments to freeze, which is explained here and said, that even wages in local self-government are subject to the government's conclusion on the freezing of wages. However, I know that in many local self-governments, at least in the city where I come from, increased salaries in November, December, and January, because they were supposed to be frozen wages, so that in this way they would practically legalise higher salaries than they were in November, because the Ministry of Finance can control the mass of profits and wages made to state administration workers, but not employees in local self-government, and thus employees in local self-government will have significantly higher salaries than they have in the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18581	The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18582	Madam Minister, the purpose of this amendment is to reaffirm once again that the government has violated the Budgetary System Act with this draft. In fact, this budget will remain remembered for being in Article 13. The government itself says it violates the Budget System Act. It is an obligation to deliver the memorandum together with the budget, and the memorandum also contains the allocation of funds allocated to municipalities and cities. The purpose of this amendment was that, if it could not arrive on time, at least by 30 April, when the budget would be adopted, that is to say, on 30 April, that a memorandum, which contains such a significant item, would be adopted along with the budget, especially for the functioning of municipalities and cities. Not to mention, under our law, the memorandum must present and define the frameworks for the overall economic policy. If all the relevant parameters have been changed, on the basis of which documents they have been changed, if not on the basis of the memo. The government itself in Article 13, and then in response to my amendment, says that one day the Ministry of Finance and the Commission for the Finance of Local Self-Government will sit and agree, and in that case it will not be until the moment this budget is adopted. We, when this budget is adopted, will have that old memo, those old parameters, and absolutely no funds that will be financed by local self-government. Do they have more resources than they need? Do they have extra employees? Whether it doesn't work there properly and the government has no ability to control their functioning, we can talk about it all, but what remains as a fact is that there is no memorandum and that together with the adoption of the budget we won't know what the funds are.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18583	Mr. Marash wants to follow this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18584	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a completely understandable amendment submitted by fellow Parliament vice-president, i.e. fellow MP, Mr Radojko Obradovic. Sam said nicely what the memorandum is and what should stand in the memo, but the problem is, Mr. Obradovic, what economic policies change about us every day four times. What's it gonna be? How can you expect a memo from this government that jumped into its own stomach based on what she said at least 30 times in the last month? I understand that for you, I just don't understand why there's no more responsibility, why not look for co-operation, why not look for associates and the opposition, why we can't sit together, because we all have the same goal, I guess, which is that this crisis, which hasn't come yet with full intensity, so on. The global economic crisis, in this country, will be overcome and overcome in the best possible way, in the most painless way and with as little damage as possible. We all give up, let the government, in the end of the line, give up the government of that monopoly that only knows everything, come and talk. You had when you needed to provide most of it under any law, when I say you, the Government, and you, in particular, come and talk to MPs. Let's continue this co-operation, so maybe one day there's this memorandum, where we'll see what economic policy this country is, which one of our colleagues from the Finance Committee would say -- the memorandum is a list of good wishes, but the memorandum is something that tells us which way we're going. We keep undermining, we from LDP, we need to know the path we're going. We're all ready to give up, all of us and all the political parties, and all the citizens are willing to give up, if it takes three years and five years, because of those who come after us and for our own sakes, but to know where we're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18585	Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18586	I think, Madam Minister, you're in big trouble. This is my last amendment, I totaled four. When we discussed the 2009 draft budget, you accepted five of my amendments. I believe that, among other things, because of these five amendments he endured these four months, otherwise, if you hadn't accepted, you would have had to defend this rebalancing in February. This amendment relating to Article 13 has to do with the amendment that I have proposed to Article 6, when we talked about the programme budget and that you have in fact come up with a programming budget, because there are expenditures from the Ministry of Religion, but we do not have, for example, the Ministry of Agriculture, which is also extremely important and concerns a large number of citizens. When we talk about the Ministry of Agriculture, you say here that part of the transferred assets of the 2nd article's position will be directed at 60% to encourage agriculture. You assume that the proceeds from the PIO contribution will be higher this year. Based on what? I think it's fair to say on what grounds, because you plan to blackmail our farmers in such a way that if they want to get a grant, if they want to get a certain loan, they have to settle their obligations to the Pension and Social Insurance Fund. It's a good opportunity, and I want to use it to say that the debts of the agricultural budget to farmers from last year are at least two billion. It's already calculated into this minor agrarian budget that's still shagging. How do you plan to replace the difference and settle the debts? By wanting to destroy this year's Agricultural Production Encouragement Fund. You're planning 4.6 billion from that fund to transfer to the budget to settle your obligations. What does that mean? You take away every perspective from farmers, because next year that fund will be empty. You expect major inflows from May on short- and long-term loans, especially short-term loans. You will now list this fund, peoplely speaking, and that I am understood by those whom this fund is concerned, and these are agricultural producers. That means next year they won't be able to withdraw those funds. What's the worst thing about this whole thing is that you active agricultural producers, successful, those who fight as hard as you can on this market, will be left without funds in the next year. So we're starting to spend something this year that should stay for next year. I suggested that these funds, which would possibly be provided, be spent on a special programme of government, which would come to the Committee on Agriculture and at which the Committee on Agriculture would give its consent. You're here saying that under the Law on Government, the Committee on Agriculture has no obligation and that there is no need for the Committee on Agriculture to discuss it. So the idea of my amendment is that, if we get to the extra funds, they spend on a specific programme that would be determined by the government and that it must come to the Committee on Agriculture that we would be discussed and then adopted, and they would know how these funds are spent, because the hole in the agricultural budget has so much that the question is how and where all this money is going to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18587	The 13th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. Mr. Lapchev, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18588	As for several previous amendments to Articles 1 and 2, which relate to this amendment to Article 13, I suggested that due to the very poor state in the budgets of local self-government, transfers to local self-government would not be diminished, so that, according to this amendment, 15 billion would remain for transfers to local self-government units. The government rejected the amendment and said in the report that if adopted, the necessary austerity measures under the conditions of the economic crisis would not affect the budgets of units of local self-government. I can understand that it takes all of us to put up with the burden of the crisis this year. The National Assembly and the MPs came first and accepted such a solid desire to be saved. But the other day, we heard that the prime minister, at the hint of the ambassadors of the duchy parties, SVM and LSVM, invented 11 billion dinars that would transfer to Vojvodina as a province administration, we just don't know where. So, we've cut off 15 billion dinars from local self-government units, but we'll find about 11 billion and transfer to the province administration, and we'll come into a situation where the full burden of the economic crisis, which applies to local self-government, will be borne by the local self-government of central Serbia, while the local self-government units will have their own budget that the province's administration will transfer as they please. I think you're making a big duplication in this way, and I don't think it's right for some to be more privileged, have bigger budgets and have the possibility of making investments in their municipalities, and those who are the poorest, especially in southern Serbia, have no possibility because they deny transfers to 15 billion dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18589	National MP Milos Radulovic submitted to the 13th amendment. Mr. Radulovich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18590	In Article 13 after the words – "Article 25g: In compulsory social security organisations and health institutions financed from public incomes, working relationship with new persons can be based on a human resources plan consisting of a competent ministry," I add the words "on which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia agrees". I believe that this amendment is fully justified and meaningful, above all, for the reasons that employee earnings fall on the burden of taxpayers or citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, uncontrollable employment in institutions would be prevented, both by social and health, by a large number of people, and we know that there are more people than there are real needs in these institutions, and above all, employment on family and party lines. I think that the National Assembly is exactly the place and the highest institution through which this staff plan must go, and especially as there are certain resolution committees that can give an opinion on these plans, which are, above all, the Administrative Committee, the Legislative Committee, the Finance Committee and the relevant resolution committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18591	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 13th amendment. Mr. Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18592	Before I say anything about the amendment, I have to say, there's Mrs. Comic, how nobody's warning us today, not warning us, everything's going in some order. I must commend the MPs, but also the chairman. The amendment requires that the reduction of transfers to local self-government, instead of the estimated 15 billion dinars, be five billion dinars, as local self-governments have the right to their funding established by law. The proposed amount from the budget rebalancing for the transfer of municipalities is contrary to the provision of Article 37. The law on funding local self-government, which regulates transfers to municipalities cannot be less than 1.7% of the social product. The government violates the constitution when it comes to the AP Vojvodina and is now breaking the law again when it comes to municipalities. They don't need to be reduced that much, they have to make a fundamental difference, municipalities have to commit 20% of their municipal budgets to investment. That's much better than reducing transfers. If the municipalities had an obligation to invest 20% in investment projects in the municipality's territory, it would trigger small and medium-sized businesses in municipalities. Who to get a job from if there's no foreign investment? They need local municipalities to help them. So we think, first of all, that this should be reduced, and on the other hand, we have to commit local self-government to some new law that 20% of the funds necessarily go into investment projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18593	The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. Would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18594	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Minister Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as we did yesterday and today in discussions concerning the reduction of transfers to local self-governments, there was no serious analysis of certain municipalities and cities when they joined this business. It is truly strange of the government’s representatives to keep ignoring the fact that there is serious doubt in the National Assembly about this decision. Mrs Dragutinovic, you have today had the opportunity to see the mayor's reaction and municipalities of the ruling parties in a daily list, where people are desperate, because they cannot plan anything in the coming period, not only when it comes to investments, but are threatened by the elemental, basic competences of local self-government. So big cities and large municipalities in central Serbia are deeply concerned about your decision. It was not an obstacle for you to enter into an arrangement with individual representatives of the Vojvodina parties and thus try to put in further dissension when it comes to local self-government in Serbia. I would like to remind you that the Permanent Conference of Towns and municipalities has brought a position regarding all local self-government in Serbia on this issue. With this decision now, and not by making a law on the jurisdiction of the province, which was your obligation, you bring in an additional problem and you violate the constitutional principle of equal regional development. You have one complete non-transparent use of funds in the Vojvodina area. On the Committee on Local Self-Government in the National Assembly, the NIP Minister said she did not know how to spend NIP funds in the Vojvodina area. The Serbian minister said he was not aware of the spending of funds on a third of Serbia's territory. Now you expect us, feeding this province administration, where the funds will not go to local self-government cities and municipalities in Vojvodina, to be convinced that local self-government will continue to develop in the Vojvodina area. We believe you must give up that decision to reduce the transfer funds. Take note of the fact that the opposition representatives speak out loud here, and that the vast majority of MPs in the National Assembly are from the ruling majority for that position, because their presidents of the municipalities and cities do not know how they will deal with their basic powers, how they will welcome this year and how many municipalities your decision will bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18595	The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? ) Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? ) National MP Prof. Zoran Masic submitted the amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed to add Article 13a after Article 13. Does anyone want a word? ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic iZoran Shami. Mr. Shami wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18596	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Article 14 provides that the Government of the Republic of Serbia may decide to initiate the procedure for granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in order to ensure financial stability, etc. legal entities up to 100 million euros, up to about 10 billion dinars. I'm afraid it is that some tycoons, whose business is not going well in the financial crisis, are expected with the right, the money, the guarantees of the Republic of Serbia, which can mean the taxpayers' money in the end. The government has rejected this amendment, but in an explanation, it is within the law, and then there is one supplement, according to the law, legal entities organised by the government. This is all about legal faces. I'm not about the government to make commitments on behalf of the great tycoon comrades, because I think that's what this is about. For this reason, independent of each other, and Mr Popovic and I have proposed this amendment. I'm very sorry the government didn't adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18597	National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18598	The purpose of this amendment is to once again draw out the importance of the guarantee given by the state of Serbia and to once again raise the question of what is actually a public debt and what is not a public debt. Here I have a list of the documents needed to get a loan of 20,000 dinars. It looks like this. You've got to take a couple of credit committees, you've got to go to the bank multiple times and look for all the documents you can get. In order for Serbia to be in charge of three billion euros, we still have no official decision, and no place in the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget is mentioned. It'll be in the National Bank Acts. The National Bank Council has no jurisdiction over that. It turns out that, and since the government can't interfere with the work of the National Bank, it can't in any way affect anything that's related to that debt. It turns out that with the governor's decision, without any consent from the National Assembly, the Republic of Serbia, we hope, will be in charge of the three billion that are necessary on 11 May. On the other hand, this document, i.e. a member and an amendment to the law, foresees when something that is not foreseen that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will actually give the guarantee, although it is not pre-predicted by the Budget Act. The purpose of this amendment was for the Assembly to be timely informed by the Public Debt Act, and it must be done because it must have the power of law. The Republic of Serbia cannot guarantee otherwise. The question is just one more question, and we've highlighted it several times, because in response to the parliamentary question that's been raised here, the Prime Minister told us that the government adopted the platform a month after the negotiations were completed and based on some old platform. On the basis of the old platform, budget revenues were so much that we didn't have to rebalance. Why don't we do economic policy on the basis of that old platform? We will ask that he appear here and the governor to finally determine who made the decision and under what law Serbia will be in charge and conclude an arrangement with the IMF.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18599	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic to Article 14. Does anyone want a word? ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18600	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have tabled an amendment to Article 15 and suggested that Article 4 be deleted. Article 15, first position: "Part of the income of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is expressed as a source of 04 - The own revenues of budget users of 40% will be used to finance expenditure that is shown at the source of 01 - Budget revenue, in accordance with this law". Item 4: "If the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, assesses that the restriction of Article 1 threatens the functioning of the budgetary user, it makes a decision on a different timetable for the budget's own revenue." The bottom line is that the government has to interfere with every pore of this society, every segment of life. Come on out for a minute. Bring the law on the transfer of jurisdiction, return property to the province, local self-government, cities, and much less will be the need for the government to interfere in the lives of all of us. That is the only reason we have submitted this amendment, that is, to delete this item 4. That's what we did with Article 8 for the same reason. Too much authority is given to the government. The government can do certain things out of its own interest. It is true that there are mayors and presidents of the ruling majority who are afraid of how local self-government, that is, their cities and municipalities, will function. But it is true that there is a mayor, or president of the municipalities, who are otherwise sitting in this congregation, who are not at all concerned, who are all made possible. That is why the government should not interfere in the lives of ordinary citizens in this way and should come out. Everywhere you can transfer jurisdiction and return the property.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18601	National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18602	This is my last amendment to the amending and supplementing the Budget Law. The purpose of this amendment is once again to point out the importance of the reforms that await us in this sector and the importance of controlling all budget revenues and all their own revenues. I think that the acceptance of my amendment to Article 1 of this Law is the first step in that kind of control, because in future, in Article 1 of the Law, all of those additional revenues from direct and indirect budgetary users will be shown in the budget. What we need to do in the next period, the finance minister will have the full support of our parliamentary group, which is to pass a new law on the budgetary system. New, completely changed, with very clear rights and obligations. So that we don't get to be late for a month and a half, to discuss whether the memorandum is part of the budget or not, although it clearly states, that we finally determine all the rights and obligations of all the budget users.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18603	Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18604	I would like to point out in our time that I support Mr Radojko Obradovic's amendment, the DSS MP, and I want to take advantage of the opportunity of the Minister of Finance to point out that today we have had the opportunity to see in the means of public information that you want to bring a new VAT rate somewhere in July. Today it was in some means of public information, but anyway. My message will be to think carefully, given the global economic crisis and the difficult business of many businesses and businesses in Serbia, to think carefully about the realisation and way of charging VAT, Madam Minister, since VAT implementation is immediately extremely devastating for domestic businesses and firms that are otherwise difficult to operate. We have information that 60,000 companies are in a blockade and it is completely unnatural to ask for VAT immediately in realisation, and that their claims, both to the state and to the debtors in the business, are very uncertain, and this additionally burdens the companies and the entire economy in the country at all. So, it may have made sense while the economy is working that the VAT system can be charged immediately, although it is absolutely wrong for me and it is absolutely wrong, but in this period when the economy of the Greeks, when it is difficult, it has to be possible for companies to survive, because there are thousands of employees in these companies and I'm afraid that by continuing this tax system, many businesses and companies will come into a situation of bankruptcy, and that will mean firing a large number of people. I would also like to point out that in this part, given that there was no budget rebalance, we saw in October, for sports organisations, the budget provided for extremely small funding for sports organisations, so I would like to point out that you make sure that practically sports organisations and national alliances in the country don't get funding from the beginning of the year. Since they have had a difficult business at the end of the year, all these sports organisations, and four months are practically dinar-free, you take care, it is difficult, it is a global economic crisis, it is a very dangerous situation, but I'm afraid this is the way it is done now, we're going to shut down all sports and sports organisations, which is extremely dangerous for young people who participate in these sporting activities, of course for many clubs in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18605	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18606	Madam Chairman, this amendment proposes that 40% of its own income, direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget to finance expenditure, excluding the revenues of higher education institutions. The revenues colleges and institutes make are used to improve the work in these institutions. To take 40% of these revenues, it would be understandable for me to say that the prices of services offered by colleges and institutes are unrealistic, but these prices are indeed some minimum and that's the only way to motivate these scientific research staff in these institutes and universities to further work and earn. According to us, it would be much more normal to reduce the cost of tuition, to reduce the price of taxis for various types of permits, solutions, consent, inspection etc, because citizens should have less to finance their needs during the crisis because they are smaller and their incomes. I don't see any reason why scientific research institutions and higher education institutions, above all colleges and universities, are being taken away from these funds, because one of our few comparative advantages, or where we may be competitive completely with Western European countries, is this high school staff. Students coming out of our colleges are really well prepared and these educational institutions need to be able to make extra money if we want to save the best staff at universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18607	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Mr Markicevic first came forward, but first Mr Popovic, since his amendment, please. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18608	This is the return of neutral funds from the Fund for the Development of Agriculture to the Republic's budget only in 2009. In the proposed text of Article 16, it is said - extremely in 2009. This suggests that the use of the Fund's resources to encourage the development of agricultural production in the Republic of Serbia in the previous year, and perhaps in the future, was ineffective. It was possible that these funds were not fully used. Today, when agriculture needs any kind of support, when agriculture is as the strongest economic branch in Serbia, the largest export branch in Serbia, the funds sit on certain accounts of individual funds due to the inefficientness of their work. That's really crazy. Agriculture today must face competition practically in all segments of agricultural production with EU producers. These EU producers have three to twenty times more subsidies. Again, almost twenty times in some segments of larger subsidies. How can our peasant fight them?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18609	The word is Mr. Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18610	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, I am reporting and using the time I have as deputy head of the parliamentary group, and with the conviction that Ms. Minister is the patriot of this country and an economic expert, and with a good custom that almost all the dilemmas and questions of MPs at the end of the working day or at least until the break is right. I personally saw to it that when the minister visited groups, she was a woman who could be talked to, and even those MPs who were not economic experts like her. In that sense, I am free, Madam Minister, to tell you that I have received an answer to the parliamentary question asked on 26 February at Saint Simeon Mirocivo, addressed to the Prime Minister, on the state of our foreign reserve, on the sale of foreign reserves in order to defend the course of the dinar, the value of the dinar. However, I received from Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic. I will remind you that your president, as well as our president, our Serbian government, had no other one, had first responded that it was a state secret, and then he responded that such issues were being handled by Governor Jelasic. Why am I introducing this as an introduction to the question I want to ask you here? Because it's not clear who bought 30m euros a day. We didn't get an answer as to who it is, whether it's individuals, whether it's firms, or whether it's foreign banks, where they're actually foreign exchanges. If I don't know how many dinars have been withdrawn from circulation, I understand that, but where are the foreign exchanges, have they been taken out of the country? This is all about the agreement with the IMF, because this agreement that our government has reached as a consequence is a proposal for the budget rebalances that you have brought to us here, which I hope you will defend, if not after my questions, then following the questions of some other fellow Members of Parliament. The amount of that money that we are to receive from the IMF in support of the defence of the dinar course and the strengthening of our country's foreign reserves is about three billion euros. How about the information that we have in the media these days, both the MPs and all the citizens of Serbia, that only at Lucy Belgrade and this business centre at the mouth of the state has been cut off by about three billion euros. Does this mean that we have charged these funds, so that we don't have to make an agreement with the IMF, because then we wouldn't have to accept these conditions restrictively, which all Serbian citizens now have to pay. In the direction of this thesis that we present here, I would be free to say immediately without the approval of Prof. Mladjan Kovacevic, Professor of the University, to read an interview he gave to a daily newspaper, I think, April 5th. I don't think a decent professor will mind me because we're not all as professional as he is. I believe what he said in that interview and here in front of the Serbian citizens I will read it and I want to hear your comment on this interview. Professor Kovacevic says: "In the NBS account, in September 2008, the dinar was actually worth 108% more than at the end of 2000. This overestimation of domestic currency has led to enormous imports and asphyxiation of domestic production. Since 2001, over $62 billion has entered Serbia into the net, and all of it has eaten huge imports. This extremely neoliberal concept of reform has led us to the edge of the breakdown experienced by Mexico, Russia and Argentina," said Blic Sunday by Mladjan Kovacevic, a professor of the University and a regular member of the Academy of Economic Sciences. How did you get that 62 billion figure, they ask the professor. Based on new borrowings since 1 January 2001, a net foreign exchange inflow of 21 billion dollars has been reached. Some 26 billion came from abroad, with some 15 billion revenues from the privatisation of Greenfield and Portolio investments. Banks and businesses owed about two billion at the end of 2000, and at the end of last year their foreign debt exceeded 21 billion dollars. The madness of easy borrowing has completely prevailed. If I had wondered (so, Professor Kovacevic, not me), if the company had already been in debt, I would have insisted that this money be used for importing equipment, reproductive material and knowledge, rather than for importing goods of broad consumption. In eight years, the aggregate import value is over 105 billion dollars. It's all imported. Look at U.S. still, they all import alive, except maybe they're painting, so they're rolling in Sevojn, Petrochemia, Tiger, pharmaceutical houses. All of them are based on import components. Why did we import so much? Because reforms were carried out by people with modest knowledge, who easily fell under the influence of the IMF and the World Bank. Unlike us, Slovenians gathered top experts with Jože Mencinger at the head and made a concept that was significantly different from what Jeffrey Saks and the IMF recommended. In Serbia, reforms were led by a team of people who, in my deep conviction, were completely incompetent to this matter. For example, Professor Labus in his book "The Basics of Economy" on the problem of economic relations with abroad and foreign trade has three or four sides. So that's not what a man did. Or, Master Dinkic, an assistant on the subject of economic development, suddenly becomes governor of the National Bank and deals with matter that is probably very foreign to him. Or, Vlahovic, who worked at "Deloitte&touce", but I don't remember that before that, before the election for the minister, he wrote something about the problem of privatisation. So Goran Pitic, who became Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, was engaged in world economic history at the university. Or, Master Djelic, who was the assistant assistant of Jeffrey Saks, who as the main reformer of the transition in Russia had disastrous results. They were our visionaries, as Labus liked to say. Besides him, everyone's in office today. The IMF didn't choose reformers for us. In addition, consider a significant reduction in the number of employees in the state administration was made during the previous arrangement with him. As soon as the arrangement was broken, it continued as usual. It is true that there are also some positive elements in the concept that force the IMF and the World Bank, but the balance of positive and negative effects of this concept is extremely unfavourable for a country that literally applies the concept. Nor is it good that these visionaries of ours do their own work as they know and know it, nor is it good with the IMF, because we have to do as they ask, and when they want to push something through, they just say the IMF is looking for it, and maybe it's not. Now the global crisis is welcome to them, and in October they said that we would benefit from the crisis, because they would stop investing in Serbia, as if they were living out of time and out of space. For countries like Serbia, what is the IMF alternative? Nobel laureate Edward Prescott said that the IMF and World Bank policies, which consist of the approval of increasingly large loans to countries in crisis, are the same as giving drugs to a man dependent on cocaine. When someone comes into that drug addiction, they need severe treatment. It's tragic that we came into such an addiction. Our industrial production is still lower than in 1998, compared to 1989, and not to speak. This is due to reforms that have produced a sudden liberalisation of imports and the extreme overvaluation of national currency. After an agreement with the IMF, it is very difficult to find an alternative. There may be a chance to borrow from Russia or China, which does not know what to do with foreign exchange reserves that amounted to $1,800 billion in October 2008. Can something be saved without help from the side? First, if the second model of economic reform had been accepted, we would not have come to such an economic situation. Secondly, if we hadn't simply accepted the Association Agreement with the EU, we would have 300m euros more than customs revenues. The whole world closes down and introduces measures to protect against imports, and we unilaterally lower customs duties and the budget runs out of income. Also, we would have to save maximum electricity and export all the excess, but the most we could save is that the currency rate is real. Then the mass of import products and services would disappear. It's the most natural way to make a man, a company, a state, behave more rationally and spend less. The overestimated value of the national currency systematically reduces everyone's propensity for savings. If the euro was worth 130 dinars, everyone would have kept it much more. You are predicting an Argentine script, which is what I am as a man and a parent, like all the parents in Serbia particularly concerned, Madam Minister, and I want from you answers that most, if not all citizens, will understand. What's so terrible that can happen to us after all? When debt increases and foreign reserves are significantly reduced, the value of the national currency will no longer be able to defend itself. Then we will come into a situation where the value of the dinar is significantly reduced, such as in Russia in 1998 when the value of the laundry was reduced to a quarter. A terrible problem arises for those in charge and unwittingly accepted the foreign exchange clause, as they believed some of the officials when they claimed -- that the course would not change for the next 10 years. When it comes to having to devaluation overnight, for those who are in charge of the event of a disaster – the Museum of the IMF misses. Why are you so critical of the IMF? Because I don't know any country that's had successful economic development and had a stand-by arrangement with that same institution? Because on 23 September last year, they announced that Serbia is making impressive economic growth and has a chance to grow between 6% and 7% in 2009. The first IMF man said in 2000 that the Argentina case should enter macroeconomic textbooks, as an illustrative example of how an economy develops when applying IMF recipes. Nine months later, there was a breakdown in Argentina. That's why the IMF Miss Museum was built in this country, in which it detailed everything they recommended. I am afraid as a citizen and as a People's MP, Madam Minister, that this may not happen to us. Just one more question. These days in the media, in the explanations of the rebalancing and the government, it is said that we in this year, so our country and our economy, will have a growth of minus two percent. Can you explain how a growth of minus 2% is possible? That's the same, since I'm from Chačka, let me say - I'm traveling to Cachak, but I'm minus 10 kilometers, which means I'm headed to Sremska Mitrovica, not Cačak. So, say we have a 2% drop. How can it be a growth of minus 2%? You don't have to be an economic expert, you just have to know some basic language logic and understand that - and I can't believe you made that statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18611	The government and MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Shami submitted to the 17th amendment in the same text. The government has accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18612	Just to thank Mr Popovic's amendment and my acceptance, as soon as the government submitted an amendment in the same text. Although it was easier to accept our amendments, she didn't have to bother writing amendments. In any case, in order to avoid confusion, I think our amendments should also be considered accepted, so that there is no confusion in the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18613	On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. You have the word, Mr. Popovic. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18614	Madam Chairman, we are going back to higher education institutions, universities and institutes. Here the idea of this amendment is to extend the deadline for application of Article 15 from 15 to 30 days, because we have to leave them time to search for their prices, their services provided by businesses or other users, and that is why they need time. We're in April? All calculations, plans of higher education institutions are already pre-made, direct or indirect users, right? It is almost certain that all of this measure will be amortised – what? By increasing the price of my services. And to whom will the prices be set forth again, for the citizens and for the economy. This is where we come up with this key problem in this budget rebalancing, that much of it still comes down to citizens, not directly, but indirectly, and that this standard is citizens, and that it brings even more at risk. An increase in the price of services, of course, is unacceptable today, but surely it's inevitable, you'll see. You're all here. The president's in high school. Because their own funds were not profit-free to these organisations, they represented income that had previously been calculated and their incomes had been financed by regular activities. If it is taken away from them now, and it is very likely to be taken away from them, it is taken away from them any stimulation in the future to increase their efforts and to offer much better services and the quality of their services.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18615	After we're done, does anyone else who hasn't earned the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular... Mr. Colakovic wants a word. Just sign in. Here you go, Mr. Cholakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18616	Last night, in the context of the amendment debate, I made a comment on an explanation regarding the rejection of the amendments. I will read it – the amendment is not accepted because the funds for the World Junior Championship in athletics are already provided under item 481, grant to NGOs, amounting to 40 million dinars. Today I received information from the Ministry of Sports and Youth, which is included in the 40 million dinars. 20 million dinars for 2009 were foreseen in the budget, and within 40 million, the Ministry of Sport and Youth also calculated the funds paid in preparations for the 2006, 2007 and 2008. I have not submitted amendments to the budgets of those years, but an amendment to this year's budget to provide 40 million dinars. It's just unacceptable. Secondly, they compare this athletic championship to the championships that have been organized in recent years. I appreciate that, but the championships that are organized in small sports halls. It is simply incomprehensible and unacceptable that, in this way, one ministry is applied to the amendments and to the demands of MPs or parliamentary groups. That's why I'm expressing dissatisfaction and we'll see what happens in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18617	Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, I ask Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, Minister of Finance, does she want a word? Yeah. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18618	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the respected presidency, this discussion was concluded in particular on the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget. On this occasion, I want to thank everyone for a very open, not bile, but critical discussion. You will also allow me to openly express my personal position and position of the government, to answer most of the questions asked, and to say in these answers why I could not accept some amendments. But before I move on to the discussion, I would like to say that I wanted to accept one amendment, although technically it was not possible to accept it. It's an amendment to Zoran Shami, which refers to an additional 12 million dinars for talents. I accept this amendment as a matter of fact. I suggest that the budget reserve be reduced by 12 million dinars and that the allocations for talented children increase by 12 million dinars. So technically I didn't accept it, I did. Since the discussion in particular has been going on for two days, I would again start with Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic and again underline that the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 and 2002 cannot really be compared to the 2008 budget. I remind you that Serbia has really changed a lot and, if we compare nominal sizes, the social product has been nominally increased four times, profits have been increased six times, so of course many expenditures have been increased multiple, salaries, pensions and social benefits. I repeat that the best way to compare is to compare the participation of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the social product. When we compare the participation of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the social product in 2001 and 2002 with 2008 and 2009, we will really see that participation in the social product has increased from 20% to 27%. What lies behind that increase? Not only does the Republic of Serbia now have some functions that it did not have in 2001 and 2002, I mean military, customs, diplomacy. What is particularly increased, when you look at the 2001 and 2002 budget with 2008 and 2009, are transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget to social security funds. Transfer of pension insurance, transfer to the National Employment Service, transfers to local levels and can be easily checked. Unlike the years 2001 and 2002, social security funds are mostly funding by contributions, but they generated great delays, so there were pension delays, and there was a large and small debt to the pensioners, so there were delays in paying off the unemployed, the delays were five out of seven months, so there were delays to the pensioners, the delay was three years. This is why the system of funding social security funds is no longer based on contributions, but also on taxes, i.e. the transfer of the Republic's budget. Once again, please, those two budgets can't be compared. I agree that this budget wasn't done by standard methodology, but believe me, compared to previous ones, it's most similar to the standard methodology. However, I disagree with what Mrs Tabakovic is saying that we want to hide something with this budget. On the contrary, this budget has made it clear that for the first time this budget is based on the emissions of securities from value. The expenditure of the Republic of Serbia towards the rebalancing will be financed in part by the short-term value charter emissions. The show is scheduled for two purposes. One purpose is to bridge liquidity. The other purpose is to finance the deficit. In order to rely on short-term borrowing, inflows based on emissions and repayments of the principal are expressed in gross. This isn't standard, but it's not a mistake. I'd like to explain this a little bit. Let's assume that in the period T income is not enough to cover the expenditure. What's the state doing? It emits securities of value, collects liquidity and covers expenditure. In T+1, the state collects money and repays debt. In T+3 she's broadcasting again. Every time the state broadcasts securities of value, it's an inflow. Every time the state, it all happens over a period of one year, returns the principal, it's a drain. All the inflows and drains are collected. That's why the inflow is big, that's why the outflow is big, and the actual debt is the difference between the inflows and the outflows. If it were recorded according to standard methodology, it would be recorded in the net amount. The moment we increase the short-term debt of payment would be zero, and the inflow would be equal to the difference between gross inflow and outflow. All in all, although nominally large amounts of maximum debt will be 40 billion on this basis. At least it's true to hide the cost of that borrowing. The cost of this borrowing is interest, and the interest is clearly set aside as expenditure. I guess you all agree somewhere that it's not a controversial borrowing per se. The government's borrowing isn't high. And if we want to compare ourselves to the world, we could say that we belong to a group of the least in charge. Only the Baltic countries, Romania and Bulgaria are in charge of less, with a public debt contribution of 20% in the social product, and we have a public debt stake in the social product of 29%. As for private debt, when I say private I think the debt company, the banks, does anyone really think it's the role of the state to ban or to prevent the private sector from borrowing? Somewhere I think it's standard for everyone to have consequences for their business decisions. Also, I think it's standard for credits to be granted to good clients. There's always credit history when credit is granted. I hope no one thinks the state should guarantee all private debt, because if the state does, then it's the generator of a huge moral hazard. Everyone would be in charge, because they know they don't have to go back and that's what the state needs to do. Therefore, the involvement of a public friend in the social product is not really high and the state should not guarantee all private debt. The debt of Serbia's economy will not rise by three billion euros. It will not only increase because the private sector will only be able to refinance, which means that private sector debt participation in the social product will be constant. Otherwise, when we talk about borrowing, we also have to talk about the fact that loans are being taken, but they're coming back, so the actual increase in borrowing is the result of taking and returning. As for the IMF loan, whether they're expensive or not, it's probably the cheapest loan, with an interest rate of 1.47%, which I repeat only pays on the withdrawn funds. I remind you that the first programme we have concluded and approved, at 450m euros, we have not withdrawn a single euro. There have been remarks that expenditure is likely to be shown as a transfer of the Republic of Serbia's budget to the pension fund and that foreign expenditure will be higher because the revenues from the contribution have been overestimated. I think it was Mr. Obradovic's remark. I'd like to say that daily incomes are monitored for contributions, that all the fiscals that have a profit base, income tax, social security contributions, all of them are still growing nominally, and this is growing at a fully unchanged rate of 5% nominally. We are in the revenue projection, counting that slowing down activity will affect the reduction of these revenues, calculated the rate of 2%. I think we've shown it for real. It's a word or two about the transfer of municipalities. I would repeat that I think it is fair that all levels of government, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but also local levels bear the burden of adaptation. The transfer reduction will not be linear. The reduction of transfers will be carried out in such a way as to really protect the poorest municipalities. The variant that's the optics at this point, and by half of May I think we're going to have the right estimate of transfers by municipalities, is that it's not reducing the transfers by municipalities of 7,000 dinar per capita. Therefore, the poorest ones will hardly be affected by this decision at all, but the richer municipalities will anyway. Now that you're criticizing such a reduction in the transfer of municipalities, the truth is, I'd like to make some more facts. The most frequently criticised item, since I was Minister of Finance, is the third budget, so-called. the purchase of goods and services, and a large number of amendments, almost the largest number of amendments, refers to that item, as – reduce that item, and then place those funds for another purpose. Again, the truth is, I'd like to say that when you compare the fund of earnings and the number of employees in the republican budget and the cost of buying goods and services, you'll see that practically one dinar of wages means 0.25 dinars of the so-called. costs of purchase of goods and services. I guess there's something really necessary. People use paper, computers, faxes, phones, electricity, water etc., they need Internet networking, they need connections, if we want an efficient state, customs, tax administrations, vaults, etc., they need some software, some magazine, some books, if we want to have trained civil servants. When we look at the Republic budget, 260,000 people, one dinar of profit, 0.25 dinars to buy goods and services, which you all criticize so much. When we start from the republican budget at local levels, we'll see a completely different situation -- a local-level dollar, one dinar for the Vojvodina budget, means one additional dinar for the purchase of goods and services. Many expenditures, believe it or not, are nominally the same. For example, expenditure on buying goods and services of the Republic budget, which is financed by 260,000 people, is nominally the same as expenditure on buying goods and services in local self-government. It's very similar for subsidies. It's very similar for other expenses. I think MP Lapcevic has been drawing attention today that local self-government has increased its profits in December and January. I can say that it is the government that brings the base of the salary account and that the salaries are not increased, or the government did not increase the base in December or January, but it will definitely, if that happened, it was illegal, see in execution. Some MPs believe that tax rates are high, so that the drop in tax rates can increase revenues and stimulate growth. There is a very simple economic theory behind this, that the practically lower tax rate leaves companies with more room for investment, i.e. households or consumers with more money to spend. This guy's biggest experiment, probably many of you remember, was carried out by Reagan, seeking to pull the American economy out of the crisis, reduced all tax rates by 25%, abolished the profit tax and as a result got a four-time higher deficit and twice the public debt. We tried, though not with such large experiments, with a reduction in tax rates and never a fall in tax rates was followed by growth in tax revenues and a boost in economic activity. I wish I was wrong. Mr. Popovic, we're really not recordrs when it comes to excise duty, because if we don't have, and we don't have the highest retail price of gasoline and diesel, then it's logical to conclude that we can't be recordrs at the height of excise duties. 38 European countries have been analysed and all those countries have been ranked towards the level of the retail price of gasoline, from lowest to highest. The lowest price in Russia is for well-known reasons. What we have done by changing the law is to place Serbia in the most frequent price range of gasoline and diesel, and in one case another, our price is below average, in terms of a simple arithmetic environment, practically the modus is the most common price. All discretionary expenditures have been reduced, including those discretionary expenditures where the planned expenditure for Fiat is planned. Basically, there are many other things within the framework of this appraisal, and these things are related to several government programmes, and they relate to the mitigation of the consequences of the economic crisis. All those measures that were supposed to boost credit growth, because you'll agree, our loans are missing, loans are something like a blood stream, without credit can't work the economy, the loans were almost completely stopped in December and January, the measures that should have been as cheap as possible for the state, because this country is poor, to boost the demand for loans and the growth of the loan offer, and according to the latest data from March stock loans in March are 16 billion dinars higher than the stock of credit in December. These measures have affected the growth of credit activities. As far as funding is concerned, and it requires individual MPs to increase these funds, I can say that by rebalancing, unlike many other items, these funds are increased by 20% compared to the budget, that according to the first estimates of swine flu and possibly greater control, the need for vaccination, etc. to affect expenditure growth by around 250 million dinars. What must be done will be done. For such things as you can't plan, you can't plan the appearance of swine flu, there's always a budget reserve. The subsidies to agriculture are not reduced, but are reduced by looking at budgets. Someone criticised the use of their own income, or a fund to cover subsidies. I have to say that the demand for subsidies, it's a life far greater than the demand for loans, that at this point there's unspent money of that fund, and the point is that we spend on subsidies the unspent money of this fund, because demand wasn't enough. At this point, there are three billion dinars of neutral money, and it is expected to be nine billion by the end of the year. So we're not going to destroy that fund. That fund will still have enough money for the loans. Are we blackmailing or blackmailing individual farmers? I don't think she's being blackmailed if you're asking someone to carry out their duties. Payment of contributions for pension and disability insurance is an obligation and, on the basis of this obligation, the individual agricultural producer has the right to retire. What he's asked to do is settle his current obligations. We have not blackmailed him with any settlement and repayment of debts, only current obligations and, on this basis, if income growth comes from these contributions, and it is evident that it is coming, 60% will be returned to farmers, and for that amount, the subsidy will be higher. The government's obligation is to inform. One of the MPs wanted to introduce a three-month notification to the Assembly about the way the government spends money, not only budget funds, but definitely also subsidies under budget funds, but also project loans, guarantee issuing, etc. Applicable Article 39. The 2009 budget law, in fact, has one provision that says the government is obliged by September to submit a report to parliament on the implementation of funds, programmes, projects, subsidies, NIPs, guarantees and project loans. So it's not in three months of dynamics, but it is by September at the latest. Mr Popovic said it is not good to reduce incentives. It can't be reduced by public spending without something being reduced. If we want to protect our standard of living, then we need to reduce incentives. Mr. Dimitrijevic had one great idea and I think we'll try to find a solution to that problem in the near future. It's really true, and I also think it's inadmissible that we don't know how much medical resources are available. So, what's what we know? We just know what the state is for health care. In addition to the state's allocation to health care, there is some involvement of private funds in public institutions, financing health services and private funds in private institutions. The least we can do is control the inflow of private money into public institutions. That's what we're going to try to solve with the new budget system law, practically obliging them to show, in addition to public, and private funds. The budget for Corridor 10 has not been abolished. So it is true that these funds were once within the NIP. So they're not abolished, they're reduced, like all discretionary expenditures are reduced. Now, there are 2.2 billion dinars in regular capital expenditure for Corridor 10 plus, if you remember, the Expropriation Act, which the Assembly recently adopted, as a priority method of expropriation, essentially requires that it be a natural replacement. Basically, the cost of expropriation, estimated at 130m euros, although I do not like to speak in euros, but it is Mr. Mrkonjic's bill, 80% of these funds will be covered naturally. In view of this and 2.2 billion dinars in the budget under the category – regular capital expenditure, I believe that the budget for Corridor 10 is not damaged, plus what is indeed a much smaller part of the funds than we will get from other sources. I would like to say that from different international institutions – the European institutional banks, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – guarantees are obtained, i.e. project loans. It's all in this budget. This is the order of size for project loans of 97.8 billion dinars or 1 billion euros, or 13.1 billion dinars in guarantees. You'll agree it's not a small number. Mr. Obradovic remarked that the IMF loan is a public debt, and that, practically, as the public debt is not registered. I have to say, I checked how the IMF's credit is registered, and I checked the definition of the public sector. So only the public sector can have public debt, and the public sector is: the central state, regional state, regional and local levels and social security funds. So there's no mention of a central bank as a public sector. (Radojko Obradovic, from the place: The old savings? ) Because the state has taken the obligation to pay the foreign savings to the population. Practically, the banks were then in state hands, did not pay the savings, to restore the trust of the population, to continue to invest in savings, the state took over as its obligation and therefore serviced the old foreign currency savings. I'm always surprised at what I said. I mean, I never said the VAT would be increased in June or July. What I said was that based on the data available in June or July, because only industrial production data is not enough to determine what kind of economic activity is going to be, that I will then know whether new additional measures will be needed by the government. VAT is just the ultimate measure. So, from the moment you realize that the government's additional measures are needed, there are many other measures to the VAT. Mr. Markicevic read us Mr. Kovacevic's interview. I have to tell you that no matter what Professor Kovacevic is my teacher first, then my colleague and, of course, as a colleague, and especially as a teacher, I have great respect for him, I don't agree with him at all. I wish Mr. Marash could have heard that interview. I don't know if my words would seem so pessimistic to him. Whoever carefully reads Mr. Professor, indeed dear to my colleague Kovacevic, will see that his statements are mostly catastrophic. I've been following his work, and we've often been on board in defenses of graduate and master's work. The only thing I enjoy is his prognosis not coming true. How should we view the program and arrangement with the IMF? It is completely incorrect that there is no country that has grown economically without being in some kind of arrangement with the IMF. As the example of Slovenia is not enough for me to think that I should not have a programme with the IMF, the fact is that Slovenia did not have some arrangements, but all other Central and Eastern European countries were in certain arrangements by the middle of 2000. Also, whoever carefully reads the IMF programme relating to Argentina and what Argentina was actually doing, because the economic history of Argentina is the history of a large number of populist experiments, what the IMF proposed and what Argentina was doing were completely two different things. I would like to say that Argentina did not suffer economic downturn because it followed the IMF's advice, but because unfortunately it did not follow them. Is the course, according to Professor Kovacevic, realistic or not, not that I like the word, because in economic theory, a real course means something quite different from how you read it to me in an interview with Professor Kovacevic. It can be said whether the course is overrated or underestimated, it can, whether it's balanced or not, and whether it's real, it's not that context. Watching only how much prices have increased, how much inflation there is in one country, and then comparing whether it has increased to the same extent, or whether it has been cut down, or depressed, it is not a good method. The exchange rate is a result of a large number of factors. The price change is one of them. Behind the course of one country at a time lies fundamental reasons, and above all the rate of productivity growth, capital inflow, and expectations, psychological factor. There are several theories that explain the course. He could say the course was overrated. I think the course was marketable, and that's how it should be. The fact is, in long economic history, we've had a very often underestimated course and high default balance of payments. Now I don't know what they think about this level of exchange rate, they probably think it's balanced. I'm not sure this course will stimulate the export demand as he probably expects. To calm the entire public, the foreign reserves of a country shouldn't be a secret. Why am I saying they shouldn't be secret? Because it's usually information that's publicly available. When I want to compare Serbia with the world, I immediately go to different institutions' websites and know exactly what their foreign reserves are. There are two very important things, foreign reserves, I won't say high, but in any case extremely comfortable. The government's indemnity is not high. The banking system is very solid and well capitalized. That's good growth ground. If you received data on foreign reserves, you saw that the change in foreign reserve was not dramatic. Foreign exchange reserves have been used for foreign exchange intervention, according to the central bank's strategy, only to mitigate excessive fluctuations in the foreign exchange market. Who can buy those foreign exchanges on the foreign market? Only domestic business banks, or local banks, and these local banks can also be banks with foreign owners. To finish, Mr. Marash has declared me a pessimist. I'd say it's not true, after all, that in my exposé I didn't suggest any good news. There's good news, and the good news is that the world's economy is moving in cycles and that this trend, global decline and impact on gross domestic product and tax revenues will turn around. This will happen according to the largest number of forecasts already in 2010. By then again, I think the most important thing is to tell the truth, and the truth is that this crisis will affect employment growth and purchasing power. If there is something hidden, then doubt will grow, if doubt is born, then panic will grow. There's no room for panic, there's only room for seriousness. As much as one state or government is trying, I would repeat that there is no state in the world, no finance minister and no Prime Minister, no budget that can provide everyone with everything. We can't change the direction of the wind, but somewhere I think we've been able to adjust with this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18619	I thank Mrs. Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – PROPOSITION OF THE LAWS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LAWS ON THE CONSTRUCTIONS OF THE INVESTMENTS OF THE INVESTMENTS OF THE INVESTMENTS OF THE INVESTMENTS OF THE INVESTMENTS OF THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTIONS AND THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION OF THE INSTITUTION You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does Mrs. Ragush want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does he not want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Arsic, you will still have to insert into the habit of electronic reporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18620	Madam Chairman, I agree that this is about motor vehicles, where I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, but you, from the sixth, switch to some lower speed when you read, because we really don't have to listen to this kind of session. Otherwise, I wish the minister was here to hear the explanation for my amendment that I submitted to Article 4 of the Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing goods. The fact is that the parliamentary group Advanced is Serbia's SNS against one such tax at all, but it was introduced by the DOS's coming to power, so we have been trying for years to correct one of these laws with amendments. So, I proposed my amendment not to take as a basis the working volume of taxed motor vehicles as a basis, but to move on to a more modern, objective way of assessing the value of a motor vehicle and a fairer way of paying tax obligations. Unlike the work volume, as it is in the current law, I asked for the base to be formed based on the strength of a single motor vehicle. The fact is that, since we live in the 21st century, modern technology and science go forward, and we still rely on the old and outdated methods tax, so long-term insurance companies apply one such way of determining the value of a motor vehicle when paying premiums to completed contracts to secure the same motor vehicles. The fact is that with the same manufacturer, with the same work volume, same model and vehicle type, we have two vehicles that have different power... (President: Time, but you have another minute of time of the overall parliamentary group. I'll try to finish. So they have the same work volume, different strengths, that power actually determines the price of cars, luxury and equipment that it has, and therefore that base is fairer. The adoption of this amendment would not negatively affect the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and I even think that even some larger funds would be charged in the Republic of Serbia's budget, with a view to paying the difference for those who really drive expensive and luxurious cars, which, of course, should be subject to taxation by one such law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18621	National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 4th amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18622	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted to Article 4 of the amendment, which treats the matter of increasing taxes on passenger cars, motorcycles and van vehicles, in that section relating to the drastically increasing of these taxes for cars that have over 2,000 cubic metres. From the current tax, i.e. the current car tax to 2,500 cubic centimetres, it is projected to increase from 24,000 to 37,000 dinars. So, in the government's proposal of 49 per 75,000 dinars for vehicles from two and a half to three thousand cubic centimeters, and over three thousand cubic centimeters from 65,000 dinars to 155,000 dinars. It's really an extremely high increase, especially for this category of vehicle over three thousand cubic centimeters, and I think it's extremely unwarranted that taxes are going up this far, and considering that besides people who have a lot of money and who drive these cars from luxury, there are a lot of others who bought cars like this ten or fifteen years ago and whose value today is certainly not so valuable to the 155,000 dinar tax on registration every year. We're going to be in an absurd situation where someone who has a vehicle that's ten years old, his taxes in two or three years of registration will exceed the total value of a vehicle that's ten years old. I believe that these high taxes should be brought into line with the real situation on the ground and reduced in accordance with the amendment that I have proposed, that the maximum tax price for over three thousand cubic centimeters be 90,000 dinars, up to three thousand 65,000 etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18623	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18624	Article 4 of point 1 of this Act refers to an increase in the amount of tax on passenger vehicles and vans, this point 1 refers to this point, and given their volume. When a little bit of an analysis of the proposal for this law, I analyzed this Article 4, it appears that there are actually very interesting data here and that it is concluded that there is one very strange logic followed by the Proposer. It is clear to me that the government's intention was to shift the burden of this economic crisis to the back of citizens, and the other intention was that those who had, the wealthier citizens of Serbia, paid more, but it is clear that whoever made such a proposal in Article 4, had no system whatsoever. When there is no system and there is no legality in something, then there is improvisation and there is free will that often goes to the harm of the citizens. So here in this categorization that you've given relative to vehicle volume, this is how the tax increases: 3.6 for the lowest category, so the next one has no increase at all, so the next one is 0.5%, the next category is 13.6%, the next category is 49.6%, and then 51%, and then 135%. It's simple, there's no system and there's no legality in this, and we don't even know why the increases are put in this way. When you look at that amount again in numbers, these are enormously large figures, let's say from 65,000 you go out to 155,000. Since according to the data I've been pulling here, the most important thing is cars and vans between 15 and 20 years old, you're going to come up with a situation where taxing people like this won't pay these taxes first, so you're not going to register cars, so you're going to jeopardize the safety of citizens. On the other hand, this way you won't fill the budget, which is your goal. That way, as you've taxed this, you'll get simple people to pay taxes and registration more than the economic value of cars. In the amendment, I suggested that 15% increase, there's logic, and I think it's a bigger number than inflation, and it thinks it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18625	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Here you go, Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18626	I just hope that the time foreseen to explain an amendment of this type will be enough, and that's two minutes. So what the SRS wanted to define with this amendment is, and since it's about passenger cars and vans, in order not to be misunderstood, my colleagues here helped me come up with this amendment, I'm not trying to be an expert on all the issues or to know a little bit about everything, but those who know this area a lot better than me thought that this amendment was more meaningful in the present situation. Thus, it refers to passenger cars and vans up to 1,150 centimetres of cubic 750 dinars, over 1,150 to 1,300 - 1,510 dinars, over 1,300 to 1,600 - 3,320 dinars, between 1,600 to 2,000 - 7,500, between 2,000 and 2,500 - 37,000, over 2,500 to 3,000 - 75,000 and over 3,000 centimetres of cubic - 155,000. We think this amendment solution is more meaningful than the current situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18627	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment was submitted by Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18628	For the sake of the public, I will read this amendment. The prescribed tax on the use of motor vehicles is reduced by vehicles over five years of age: 15% in vehicles over five to eight years old, 25% in vehicles over eight to ten years old, 40% in vehicles over 10 to 15 years old, 60% in vehicles over 15 to 20 years old and 70 in vehicles over 20 years of age. This amendment aims to balance the age of the vehicle, its market value and the real amount of the tax. The promoter has ignored the fact here, the more accurate model he has offered can put citizens in a position to pay for registration and when they pay taxes in certain situations, they can exceed the value of the car itself. Our amendment here aims to even facilitate and contribute to better budgeting, for the reason that citizens will be interested in paying this tax because they will have registered vehicles, and otherwise all that has been proposed here would lead to a large number of drivers who will not register because of the inability to do so because of the financial situation. They won't register vehicles, they'll drive unregistered, and that will further question traffic safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18629	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18630	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, I have written an amendment to Article 5 that defines which categories are exempt from paying taxes on the use of motor vehicles, which adds item 4, which reads that taxes are being released both by organisations and by disabled persons, as well as local self-government and other state bodies and institutions used by vehicles for organised transport of disabled persons. I find it absolutely inappropriate that the disabled associations, which use vehicles for organized transportation of disabled persons to or from the organisation, until they go to certain treatments and back, and these vehicles are mostly a van of vehicles that have more cubicity, over three thousand cubic metres, now have to allocate 155,000 dinars to pay taxes for the registration of such a vehicle. It is generally known that the associations of disabled organisations that have no own income are mostly supported by membership fees or donations that are relatively modest, and these vehicles were mainly derived from donations, so it is highly illogical to find such money, over 150 thousand dinars for paying taxes for the use of such vehicles, and they are used for the transport of disabled people. This can only lead to the fact that such vehicles are not registered, that is, to bring about the fact that we no longer have an organised transport of disabled persons, in the case of such establishments. I think that this formulation really needs to be entered into this Article 5, and I ask you to think again about accepting this amendment because the revenues will be absolutely minor compared to mass, and the damages can be great.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18631	Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18632	This is a particularly dear member of the 5th and what we intervened in was, in fact, merely, conditionally speaking, a language editorial in terms of the accuracy of Article 5. But in order for the citizens to know what this is about, Article 5 is changed and said: the tax on the use of motor vehicles is not paid by military disabled persons, or by civilian disabled war, or disabled persons working with 80 or more percent of physical impairment, military disabled or civilian invalid war, or by disabled persons who have physical impairment resulting from the incompetence of the lower extremities of the legs of 60 or more percent, and the third category is health institutions for sanitary vehicles, for transport for patients on dialysis and for vehicles for blood transfusions. The prescribed tax on the use of motor vehicles, in addition to the reduction, in accordance with Article 4 of Article 3 of this Act, is additionally reduced by 50% for passenger cars carrying out car taxis and for special passenger cars for training drivers with double-commands. Our intervention was, when it comes to military people with disabilities, that it's much better to have wartime military people standing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18633	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18634	Madam Minister, my amendment is in this entire set of amendments that says that you should consider the way in which such a high tax is charged and that the Ministry should make one rule that corresponds to that height with the age of the vehicle for example. I wanted to look back on what you said in the closing statement. There are no restrictions on these Rules of Procedure for you, and we have only a few minutes to talk about. The Republic of Serbia's budget has two problems -- one indifference, and the other deficit. In that budget and in your explanation, you haven't given us any way to solve the deficit. It says it's from the privatisation incomes and the others, but it's not listed to what extent and how much. It's true that broadcasting state securities can solve the liquidity problem, but if it's 40 billion, it's not what it is, it's 40, it increases the total debt of the state. If we're gonna broadcast those 40, which we're not gonna pay back, plus interest as borrowing costs. If that could solve the deficit -- that would be a genius thing. It's called the Perpetum of Mobiles in physics, but the problem is that it's a law on maintaining energy, because in fact that law makes it impossible for all of this to be financed in this way. The other thing is total external debt and duty. At this point, it's 29% under the Public Debt Act. I never claimed that we are in debt with the IMF under the law and that is the problem – there is no legal basis for this debt. It's not the Public Debt Law, and that's not your problem. The problem of this Assembly is, because there is no legal basis nor the NB law, because he does not know the possibility of the governor in charge of that purpose and in such a way – there is no such thing in the NB either. As far as you're concerned, that's okay, but as far as the Assembly is concerned, that's a serious problem. I'm gonna use the MP's club time, and I think we've got three minutes left. So, considering that we don't know what it is, and it's three billion dollars, so we take this another 40 billion, which is 500 million, so we take what Minister Dinkic has announced to us from the World Bank, then it's no longer 29%, but it's 45% or 46%. So we can talk about all this, as well as all these different scenarios that can happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18635	I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Assembly in the afternoon debate in detail. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Forwards Serbia, SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods. This amendment prevents two or more taxes on the use of a motor vehicle from being charged by citizens of Serbia over a calendar year on the same basis. So, what does that literally mean? It means that Serbian citizens who are looking for better existential conditions, in search of more work, which unfortunately will not be found anywhere in Serbia, will move from town to town, from municipality to municipality, and thus want to change the registration marks on their motor vehicle, when losing registration marks that are possible when using motor vehicles or when stealing registration marks, will have to pay a re-tax on the use of a motor vehicle. After several years of waste of significant financial resources in the registration of motor vehicles with Montenegrin registration marks, when only the state of Montenegro and individuals from the Serb republican authorities who did not allow re-registering, I do not think we should allow the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to allow new, double-intentions on citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sure that everyone in this hall, but also Serbian citizens, recognise Mladjana Dinkic as the most responsible vehicle registration for millions of euros in recent years, has been poured into Montenegro's budget, but also in private pockets. (President: Two minutes. ) Therefore, I ask you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18638	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18639	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 147. I am submitting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods. The amendment concerns Article 6. In the new Article 5b. Article 2 is replaced by the following: In the government's argument of not accepting amendments, the point is to accept the amendment, because as the previous speaker said, it is impossible in one calendar year to tax twice what the tax has already been paid for. If we were to look at a gene of this state in Serbia, then it had to be seen somehow since 2000, as I call it -- a new era, for the old one before 2000, I wouldn't mention it, since it's already forgotten. We should have warned all the possibilities in the country, that in some way we could produce something to sell, that the economic situation in our country would be better, that we could not think about such taxes as we are now intending to tax people. Imagine, it happens that the plates are lost, that anything happens with those plates, that a citizen who has only so much money to register that vehicle, that he twice pays one tax. That's impossible. I think you should accept this amendment, given that the taxes on motor vehicles, which are also given in this law, because I think it's impossible to pay taxes on motor vehicles at such amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18640	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18641	Dear Chairman, I hope that the afternoon debate will be in the spirit of the afternoon and you will not warn us and warn us like yesterday. As for the introduction of a tax on the use of mobile phones, this is really notsens. This is in direct contrast with the needs of the economy in the Republic of Serbia. At a time of economic crisis, there is a need to relieve fiscal pressures, and new taxes are being introduced here. As I said and repeated a hundred times after this pay phone, the government practically wants to solve this crisis by imposing on its citizens. That's total nonsense. It's total diletinism. An example of this mobile phone thing is another of the most illogical moves the government could make. It may be logical, but for these economic policy makers sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia and who have not worked a single working day in the economy. This will not be paid either by Telecom or Telenor, or "Vip", this will be paid by citizens and by us here in the Assembly. What's the funniest, resolute minister, I must say, Jasna Matic, according to my information, disagrees with the introduction of this tax. You can imagine what kind of government this is, when the minister is against the introduction of this tax, and the government is still making a decision. Worst of all, this was sent the worst possible message to foreign investors, which is these three foreign mobile phone investors. No one asked them. Telenor, the largest foreign investor company, has not been consulted on the introduction of this tax. It's a real message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18642	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Popovic and Dusan Maric submitted to the 9th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? The word is Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18643	I'm going to move on to this, because that is the essence of my amendment. A representative of one of these large-scale investors in the Republic of Serbia said he already sees this as a punishment for mobile phone users, as he, as a Western investor, does not understand that someone can increase the price of services without increasing the quality of those services. It's incomprehensible for a foreign investor. Yet these foreign investors do not know what our Deputy Prime Minister, the creator of economic policy, knows without any working day in the economy. To burden citizens, to destroy the economy of the Republic of Serbia and only to bring in some foreign companies. So it was done, among other things, in the second sector, financially. It must be understood that the cell phone is no luxury. The mobile phone is a basic need. I'm sure there are representatives of the ruling coalition who will agree with me by 99%. I'm sure everyone in the family and children are using a mobile phone, because the kind of tax we introduce doesn't exist in either one, anywhere in most EU countries, because the primary goal of each country is to stimulate the use of mobile phones as one of the cheapest means of communication. Instead of stimulating, we're doing the opposite. In the end, let me just say, there's now a tender in progress for another fixed-line operator. Is this an accident or not? Do we send this message to these in a fixed-line tender to give as little as possible, to the state to make as little money as possible, to make a profit. Why would he give a lower price? (President: Two minutes. I'll take my ten seconds from that time. Why? Because if this tax hadn't been introduced, the price would have been higher. This sends a message that this government is unpredictable. Everyone will give a lower price to ensure in the next five years that some crazy government doesn't make this kind of crazy decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18644	Before we continue the discussion in detail, I shall inform the National Assembly, and on the basis of Article 85(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today we will be working after 1800 hours, and by discussing the point that at that moment is subject to the agenda, with a delayed television broadcast. If it's any different, we'll give you information. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18645	This amendment is also related to this mobile phone. If the government wants to increase income from mobile phones, much wiser, smarter, if it has a sense in this government, I think there are very good individuals in this government, but unfortunately those who create economic policy are not of these, it could have preferred to deal with the fight against mobile phone smuggling that has an unsuspecting situation. Mobile phone smuggling is one of the main products on this market today. According to some estimates, the lost revenues are about 50m euros a year from mobile phone traffickers, as the domestic market needs them, these are estimates, about 1.5m appliances a year, and last year more than a million mobile phones were legally imported. So 500,000 or one third of the phones on the market today are illegal phones. Fortunately, the situation is getting a little better, because of operators who order phones exclusively from distributors, but the problem is also at the legislative base, because imports can deal with any person. There's no register of distributors.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18646	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic and MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18647	The amendment is also related to this crazy mobile phone tax, and how well the proposer has prepared this proposal on the taxation of mobile phone owners also speaks of the fact that no one yet knows the answers to a number of important questions about how this tax will be charged and paid. That's what I'm telling all of you, my colleagues, since I know that in principle you all agree with what I'm saying. They announced it was a tax on spent impulses in mobile phones. Whether citizens will pay a fee just as much as they have spoken or a full account to which they are included and subscription, and SMS messages. Do you even text messages, do you on the Internet? The second question – is it a tax that counts for VAT, or does VAT count for that tax? No one answered. Are those parallel taxes? A whole new imposition on citizens is being created, and key technical details have not been solved. You know what the problem is? Which I believe even the promoter still doesn't know the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18648	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18649	I have submitted an amendment to Article 11a relating to the obligation to pay taxes on the use of a 10% mobile phone and I believe that these obligations should be released to all users whose accounts for spent mobile phone impulses are so high that they do not exceed 1,000 dinars. In today's common forms of communication, communication via mobile phones cannot in itself be a luxury, but the basis for estimating luxury can only be the amount of traffic measured by price. It is also obvious after this final presentation by the authorised minister that essentially this authority is not aware that this country is in crisis. It is obvious that we are paying the price of unilateral application of the SAA, which deprived the state of around 300m euros in revenue in the budget and should be compensated in another way. This is made up of precisely these taxes that are imposed on taxpayers. The question is, what are the next measures going to be? It's obvious that the government has no concept for this time of crisis. I'll probably see you here in September, when we have a new budget rebalance, when we're going to discuss all these measures. The Republic of Serbia's budget is planned for 698 billion, and the budget's revenues are 649. The indicators indicate that the execution will be... (President: Two minutes. I also use the time we have... 619 billion. Obviously, there's a problem with budgeting, big holes in the revenue side, and, in the end, the government has no vision of how to get the country out of the crisis. She's only thinking about tomorrow, not thinking about what's coming for us and what problems we're going to face. It's basically all over the government's story: the more it imposes on citizens, the more it burdens the citizens. It is the concept of this government to implement their basic guidelines in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18650	The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18651	I'm gonna keep doing this crazy cell phone tax thing. Today in Serbia, there are many areas where there is no fixed telephony at all. I think it's over 30% territory. People don't have a fixed phone. Their cell phone is the only means of communication. God forbid anything happens in these parts: fire, accident, people have to communicate. Now we're taxing it, like it's a luxury. It's okay to tax yachts, angry cars, fairies, etc., but to tax as a luxury using a mobile phone, it's really crazy. Also, there are many repairers and mobile phone distributors in Serbia. This is a direct blow to the economy – the service and trade sector. It's an imposition on them again. Why do I insist on these examples? To show that the government has done nothing with these measures to improve the standards of citizens and has done nothing to improve the situation in the economy, but is trying to put everything on the backs of citizens and businesses. This will only bring you, I'm talking about the government, that the people will stop paying taxes, that companies will pay salaries in envelopes on black and that everyone, as they used to be, will go back into hiding their property and everything, just so they don't pay taxes. These are the side effects of these crazy decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18652	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th Amendment was submitted by Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radeta was submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, Commissioner Marina Ragush submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18653	I've submitted an amendment to article 33. The original proposal states that the first harmonisation of the tax amount for the use of motor vehicles, boat taxes, aircraft taxes, etc. prescribed by this law for payment in 2010 will be carried out in December 2009 at the rate of the prices to a small extent. In translation, these very high rates of tax that are determined by previous members, and I would like to remind you, the largest increase of more than 150% is for vehicles that have over 3,000 cubic centimeters and vans of the vehicle, despite the so high tax rates and the high amounts for registration during the following year, there will be an additional alignment with the price rise to little. This means that these tax rates will be higher by tens and perhaps more percentages. In a proposal for budget rebalances and follow-up laws, the government promised us that new rates of tax would be temporary in nature while the crisis was going on. Apparently, the government plans to continue the crisis in 2010, and perhaps beyond. I think the increases provided for by Article 4 are further extremely large, which would result in considerable inflows in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think that predicting that these taxes are subsequently increased by harmonising with the rise in prices to a little too little and practically one kind of rudeness that comes from the government, to increase in relation to the increase in the rate of price growth. I think this is too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18654	Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18655	I'd like to say a few sentences when it comes to this law. I'm aware there's no entirely fair solution. But this was one of those laws where we essentially wanted to do two things. When it comes to this tax on use, wearing and so on, we wanted to remove one anomaly that existed in the previous law, which is to say, the tax on the use of motor vehicles is different for natural and legal persons. So it was up to this proposal, with legal persons paying far more. It's one anomaly, and why do I say it? Because I didn't find any in the parallel tax system. It's just our experience. That's what we've done with this law. So we're even. We don't care if it's a physical or legal person, we evened this tax. In this way, those who buy vehicles on financial leases and that activity at all will be stimulated, because so far, people who have bought vehicles essentially paid as legal persons until the moment they really become owners. In that sense, they were in a very unequal position, especially this activity. The other thing we wanted to do was try to catch, so I say, richer layers of the population through more luxurious cars. Is that what we did? Generally, I know there's a better solution. A better solution is where taxes are paid as a percentage of the value of cars. At this stage, it wasn't possible to do that. That's why we've made one solution that's inter-resolved to this solution that I consider to be the most just, which is at the market value of the car, regardless of the cubicity. Since this was not possible at this time, the data is missing, we do not know what stock of cars, market value, etc. Various programmes are needed, connecting the MUP, etc., financial tax administrations, it was not technically possible at the moment, we have defined ourselves as a different variant, which is that when it comes to cars up to 2,000 cubic centimetres essentially the tax burden remains unchanged. Everyone pays for that tariff that was applicable to natural persons. So, not according to the more expensive tariff. When it came to vehicles of 2,000, we thought it was more luxurious cars and we increased it more significantly. It should be borne in mind that older vehicles, and we know that our vehicles are older, are practically not paying the full amount, but you have a tax exemption of 15, 25, 40% depending on the age of the vehicle. Finally, if we had protected really people who drive cars of large cubics, and it is very old cars, such cars will practically not pay more than 20% of taxes. That way, I think we've met two goals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18656	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes of the City (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: MarinaRagus, Veroljub Arsic, Dragan Aćimović, Milorad Buha, Zoran Babić, Zoran Mašić, Elena Bozic-Talijan, Lidija Vukićić, Branimir Đokić, Jorgenka Tabaković, Radiša Ilic, Milan M. Nikolić, Zoran Antić, Mirko Munjic, Dejan Mirović, Verica Rade, Zoran Krasić, Paja Momčov, Saša Maksimović, Milan Avramović, Bojan Mladenov, Gordana Pop-Lazić and Vladan Jeremic. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee, as incomplete, rejected the amendment to Article 1. The bill was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic, and the rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A Member of the 1st Amendment was sent by a Member of the Parliament of Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18657	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Dragutinović, the SRS, and simply to make it clear to the citizens, this is where the amendment of Article 9(1) and several points, including point 20, reads: the cash compensation paid to the person whose working relationship ends in the process of rationalisation, restructuring, preparation for privatisation in accordance with the Act of Government establishing a programme for the resolution of surplus employees in the process of rationalisation and preparation for privatisation until the amount of that programme, and for persons over 50 years of age without being limited. Point 2) provides for these draft laws to be amended after the words – the competent state authority pays, replaced by words – they are paid. Point 20) is amended and reads – in relation to the previous legal solution, therefore, premiums, subsidies, regressions and other means to encourage the development of agriculture from the budget of the Republic, AP or local self-government are paid, i.e. to a special purpose account, to income tax on agriculture and forestry, or to farmers registered in the Register of Agricultural Lands, in accordance with specific regulations. Point 25) is amended and reads - VAT compensation in accordance with the law governing VAT, which is paid to persons who are taxpayers of income tax on agriculture, forestry on cadastrian income by holders or members of agricultural land. The SRS believes that the existing legal solution is better, and that it does not need to be changed. This amendment has not been accepted. I think it should be mentioned that this bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Income Tax, and we are discussing in particular the moment when the National Employment Service registers 720-almost 800,000 000 unemployed... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry, I didn't announce, I'd use MPs' time, my failure. Also, what's a fact and besides, the media have been writing lately that the PIO Fund is missing 133 billion. When it comes to privatisation so far, which must at one point be reconsidered and privatised revenues, what the governor of the NBS is saying is that the privatisation revenues from the previous period have been spent. And where they were spent, precisely in the way of maintaining macroeconomic stability, i.e. on current consumption and excessive current consumption in the first place was financed from privatisation and borrowing revenues. It is not clear how the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, given the experience so far, will be implemented in practice, but I suppose by the end of today's debate in particular and we will have reasons in terms of real frameworks, so the effects of the implementation of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18658	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zoran Babic and Milorad Buha submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group, that is, the Progress Group of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. This amendment provides for the non-taxation of citizens on monetary income on the basis of fees from the purchase price achieved by the sale of capital in the process of privatising social and state capital paid to a natural person in accordance with the law of up to 200 euros, in dinar equivalent, for each full year of employment in a privatisation entity. I can only tell the Government of the Republic of Serbia - shame on you. Shame on you on behalf of the employees "Fontana", "Vitojevac", "Potex", "Auto Transport" from Vrnjačka Banja, shame on behalf of the employees "Magnochroma", "The First Five-years" from Triestenik, "22 December" and "Partizana" from Kragujevac. What privatisation in Serbia is successful? How many companies in Serbia are currently on hunger strike? Mr. Zoran Bulatovic of Novi Pazar a few days ago cut off his finger to tell you that you took everything from the workers of Serbia, and work, and the future, and existence, and that they were left with nothing but hunger strikes. Now you of these people want to charge extra taxes. Why not charge it from the buyer of capital in the privatisation process, but from those who have the least. So please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18660	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18661	Dear Presidency, honourable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, in which the proposer of income tax on agriculture and forestry proposes to reduce from 14% to 10%, however, we in our parliamentary group believe that this is also too much tax in relation to the current state and economic and financial opportunities of agricultural producers, and we propose that the tax be reduced to only 5%. We believe that even this burden is high, given the country's overall concern with agricultural producers and especially with regard to what the state allows through the budget as an incentive for agricultural production. And today, Ms. Minister, explaining the budget rebalancing, acknowledged that the funds for agricultural production, what goes from the budget, have been reduced from the budget itself, and in particular these funds have been significantly reduced compared to some previous years. Just explaining the amendment to budget rebalances, I said that the overall participation of the agrarian budget in the Republika Srpska budget at 2.22%, and until just two or three years ago that participation was about four and even over four percent. Therefore, if the state does not help adequately, does not return to agricultural production, then the State does not have the right to tax those same agricultural producers. I'll use another minute of our time at our disposal. In particular, the reason for our request to cut this tax from 10 percent to 5 percent was that at the beginning of this year there were over four billion dinars of unmistakable liabilities to agricultural producers for subsidies and what was practically promised by the state as an incentive to agricultural production, so that today, still, there are about two billion unmistakable obligations and that is even more reason to accept this proposal and to reduce the actual income tax from agriculture and forestry through the changes of this law to only 5%.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18662	On Article 5 of the amendment was filed by the National Parliament of Elena Christmas Italian. Does anyone want a word? I have the application of MP Miroslav Markevic. Do you want to speak within the time of your parliamentary group or is it a mistake? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Miroslav Markicevic. Time available, as deputy president of the NS parliamentary group, 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18663	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, within this time that the Rules of Procedure allow me as deputy head of the Parliamentary Group, I would like to answer you and ask you some additional questions because I am not satisfied with the answers you gave me in the afternoon of your presentation, although very, very much, believe me, I appreciate that you have looked back on what I said. I didn't expect you to comment on the personality of the professor who your professor was, I didn't know that, but to flaunt his views. It clearly states that the IMF, in that interview, said in October that there would be a 7% growth in Serbia, and now we have a growth of minus two, as you say. You didn't look back on that. You didn't look back either on the state or the city of Belgrade not charging about two and a half billion euros, no one denied it, we look at it every night on shows, so I said that means that we wouldn't have to take money from the IMF. I want to give you a well-intentioned announcement. The finance minister who was before you two or three years ago, we also had some arrangement with the IMF, and he was also coming by parliamentary groups to explain to us what we were forced to accept. There are other colleagues here who were MPs at the time. At the time, the finance minister told us that every arrangement with the IMF was a rope around its neck. What's changed now, if this IMF has become more humane, I'd like to know. By the way, I would like to recommend to you that, for some time, parents and teachers should listen, if I understand what you're saying, that you don't listen to your professor, I've always respected my professors. If not, then I'll think, then who are you listening to in the government, given that I have data that almost a third of you are from a company that rules this country, is ruled by Serbia, which neither by the Commission to fight the monopoly, because some of the ministers involved, as a trade minister, deny those commissions and say they're not in charge. Could you give us one piece of information, how many of you from ministers, advisors, assistants, State Secretary worked with Mr. Miskovic? That's what I'd like to know, and I think that's what the public of Serbia is interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18664	Lidija Vukicevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18665	I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 which changes the tax base and under which the tax revenue now accounts for 80% of the amount paid or distributed to the taxpayer. With the amendment, requesting that this member of the law be deleted, I actually wanted it to remain an earlier valid solution, that the tax base is 50% of the amount paid, or distributed to the debtor. Fifty percent as much as it was, so is that small? A question to which I could characterise this law could be defined like this: what is the benefit of the law that you're equating us with inadequacy? What is the benefit of the law that you are equating in your impotence with the taxpayers? Or, what is the benefit of a law that will encourage tax evasion? The moment you increase the tax base from 50% to 80%, the question is whether and how many of them will even show profit, dividend and what will be divided. In an explanation that you give the correction of the amendments is said to - increase the tax base, i.e. the taxable income to 80%, and this is now all the hypocrisy of the Government, equalising fiscal burdens with other types of income of natural persons based on real estate income, labour contracts and the like. We don't need us, gentlemen of the government, equating in tax burdens. We don't need tax equalization at all in what the state is doing, taxing and subtracting us, leaving us with less and less to spend. Equipped you as a country of taxpayers before the law, equalise taxpayers' taxpayers in court, in competitions when they are employed, when they are enrolled in schools and in colleges, when you share subsidies, when you give loans under authorized conditions, and these subsidies, for example, that are financed from that same budget that are filled with these citizens that you equate to tax burden. The basic budgetary principle, to take out of all equal, 80% of the basics for all incomes, and to give only to some, is not unknown, but it is too often defined for us to give to those who know how to thank for this privileged approach. Some materially expending, some party loyalty, and some, in their hope, tend to believe in empty promises, repay themselves by voting in the elections, late seeing their error. Another question that opens up such a legal solution is whether you are aware that such an increase in tax bases will create a need for skilled accountants and the possibility that, by staying within the frameworks of the law, those creative interpretations of regulations, targeted and consciously, will focus on non-representation gains to avoid such high tax obligations. What's that gonna lead to? One who does not display profit means not by illegal but by skillful, creative and aggressive interpretation of the financial regulations of accounting standards and bookkeeping will, by your understanding, damage the state, the state you represent. You will then, calling it a responsible state, invest more and more resources to strengthen the tax apparatus that will try to reveal it, that discovers it is a permanent state that costs and does not mean what it reveals and prevents abuses, on the other hand, spending more and more money to secure your income, what you do and this way. You'll believe it's in the interest of everyone, so I'm asking what it's worth to the state in which the tax evasion has reached tens of billions of dinars at your admission? The basic question I am asking - what is the benefit of this law in which equality in non-cash and taxpayers and states in mutually concealing the tax base and tax evasion, from which we today will have direct damage, and you, hopefully, as soon as possible in some recent elections, also directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18666	The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment to the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Antić and Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18667	As you said, I have submitted an amendment to article 10, which implies that a member of the law, proposed by the Government to delete tax exemptions when it comes to the capital gains tax in inheritance. In general, SNS is very unhappy with the financial market situation and with the tax-related capital gains that both this government and previous governments are carrying out through the capital gains tax, because the fact that the capital market in our country is very underdeveloped, that it is shallow and that we have very few investors. With this legislative proposal, the number of investors will be even smaller because new taxation is being introduced, and the fact is that the situation in the Belgrade Stock Exchange is very bad, that the Belgrade Stock Exchange is under way and that we have missed years of transition to strengthen the financial market and allow certain funds to be merged into our businesses and that it and in this global financial crisis are much easier to cope with the difficulties they face on a daily basis. The idea of SNS is primarily the development of the financial market, but also the promotion of savings, investments. Unfortunately, we do not have enough foreign direct investment, we do not have enough investment from abroad and should in any way enable domestic savings, that domestic investment and securities come to life and be much larger. In this regard, it is necessary to encourage and enable small investors, small investors, as they call them, to actively engage in the stock market, offer their capital, increase the value... (President: Two minutes. I'd like some time from the MP's group, if you don't mind. (President: There is no more time. He's gone, then I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18668	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radeta was submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, provides for the removal of members of the Bill's proposal, which reads: "Incomes based on the collection and sale of secondary raw materials, collection and sale of forest fruits and medicinal plants, breeding and sale of mushrooms, breeding and sales of bees' swarms, breeding and sales of snails, etc. "I won't read any further. If this wasn't sad, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be ridiculous. This provision of the law shows all the senselessness of your austerity measures. You suggested taxing snails. It's amazing what you'll think of as taxation. Now I could give you one contribution to this Serbian savings action with a few taxes that you probably didn't think of. You could introduce tax taxes, tax taxes, which would give you conditions to form another ministry or at least another agency, I think 106, right? Then you wouldn't have all those party shots that stayed unearthed in line waiting for the state manger, you could have practically provided them with it. I believe that in any case, the most resources would be provided in a way if you introduced a 60% tax on personal income for all those who did not vote for you. To that end, you would have provided for some of the next elections. You could have fired the civil servants, by reducing the palace, you did this in part – by paying public companies' debts by taxing those who had kept it or not paying it, by abolishing the bonus or representation, by listing state property, by carrying out legalisation or by taking away property from criminals, by shutting down, or by abolishing 105 agencies. You haven't taken those measures, but you're introducing a tax on snails, which seems quite pointless to me. Because of the time I have left, I think I have everything very little, right, in the end I would turn to the citizens of Serbia. Respected Serbian citizens, all these taxes are necessary, because such an administration needs to be fed, watered, and car hires, mobile phones, representations. If you forgot, I have to remind you, this is – the socially responsible and most reformist government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18670	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, Ambassador Marina Ragush submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18671	Mrs. Komic, I'd just like you to tell me how much time I have and as authorized, and for the MP group, so you don't understand until the end of the direct transmission of my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18672	As an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, you have seven minutes at your disposal, and from the time of the parliamentary group you have 7 minutes 30 seconds left, with these 30 seconds we will not count, because it is for providing information.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18673	I can only relate to what's already been said. Imagine if there was a difference between mushrooms and mushrooms. Article 13 of this law, in order to be clear to the citizens of Serbia, is changed and said: revenue is taxed on the basis of the collection and sale of secondary raw materials, forest fruits, medicinal plants, the cultivation and sale of mushrooms, the cultivation and sale of bees' swarms, etc. The amendment just wanted to clarify the difference between mushrooms and mushrooms, but then we realized that we would do more harm than good, because then more producers would be taxed with this amendment. There's a chance, and here I announce that I'm using time for a parliamentary group. Unequivocally, many economic experts pointed to this early this year and last year. One of these is Professor Rabbit, and I intend to take it as an example, because in the first place I like the plastic style and the way you think, and maybe the concept. It is quite far from the policy represented by the SRS and I believe we will never meet politically, but with that very reason I mention the example. So, the professor of the Faculty of Philosophy said at one point -- I don't understand why those who own themselves don't go to the people, it was the end of last year, he was visiting on one Belgrade television, and they don't say there's no money, and it's really going to be one of the big problems, that Serbia will feel the effects of the global economic crisis. Then he'll face a series of problems that won't be easy to get out of. Why – because the system is bad and because years ago, I am incomparably acknowledging myself, and I completely agree that concepts cannot be compared, and hence the budget laws, given the overall legal framework. But, Mrs Dragutinovic, the reform course that was to be taken since 2000, the path that was supposed to go, did not move? Only political and social peace was bought, at a time when more money came to the state of Serbia and there was an opportunity to take certain reform moves. When Professor Zec said so, he caused a reaction, because our belief that the true Prime Minister Tadic, who convinced us, has several times resolved us, outside his jurisdiction, a crisis situation instead of the Serbian prime minister, is therefore we believe that man is really powerful and powerful in every situation and in any case, he said himself – that Professor Rabbit is spreading alarming knowledge and that it is not right to behave in the way he behaves. In fact, the man was right all along. In order for the same Mr Tadic, on March 3rd of this year, at a very important meeting in Kopalnik, therefore, there were words about the business forum, which also sent very vague and totally different messages from the meeting, said – the current economic ideologys of the crisis cannot be overcome, and from you, thinks of those present, inventivity is expected. Also, on March 3rd 2009, at the same rally, a man who signs financial and economic flows for a long time in this part of the territory, and soon we will find out on whose behalf, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Regional Development said -- that Serbia will still not enter the recession and that the government's measures will deliver results. When it comes to an arrangement with the IMF, Mr Dinkic estimated that Serbia will not fall into a pay-balance crisis and that it does not need money from the IMF, but would already have more psychological character. I have also, all these days, when it comes to the previous and this sitting, because these are the daily topics that concern all of us, also quoted the statements of many and economic experts and representatives of the government, who are so conflicting with each other, that it is absolutely unclear for ordinary citizens and all of us how it will come out in a period of time. Or, say, maintaining the level of employment, when we know that the projected unemployment level is over 750 thousand unemployed, there are now 730,000 of them, when we know that 60,000 accounts are blocked, that one of Serbia's largest debtors. So these are all those indicators that show too, taking pictures of an economic atmosphere that definitely cannot give a precise answer: what should Serbia hope for. Except for the situation in Serbia that it will happen, for who knows which time a similar historical drama – when the state has no money, so it reaches out to take that same money from the citizens through different taxes that citizens must inevitably meet, and that their rights and the exercise of rights are increasingly constrained. So this whole story should start and end with the fact that we don't have a final account, that we don't have a final account audit and data that the SRS has also presented these days about the illegal and non-intentional spending of budget funds. So we can safely argue, many research shows, particularly research by the IRI agency, that 56% of citizens believe Serbia is on the wrong track. How do they see it? They see from their own perspective. It's just that their lives are getting more and more insecure and more difficult. So, all of these, of all these economic categories, economic analyses, conflict concepts, they absolutely don't need to be significant and important, and they don't have to understand it, they know about net incomes as long as they can last a month. What they can handle is getting thinner, weaker and weaker. The fact is, it's a projection, a projection that will stretch unfortunately, and part of the pessimism draws from your exposé over the next few months. It is not pessimism that we all fall into apathy and melancholy together, but pessimism in terms of real perception of the situation, which is – that there is no money, that the reform has not been implemented, that we are in a period of financial crisis in fact entering into reform. Why? Because we're forced by the measures that the IMF specifically asked us to do. In the first place, we were all very radical when we asked for a reduction in public spending, because it is a huge burden on the budget. Now no one has the heart to talk about it the way you know that so many thousands of people must inevitably lose their jobs and the way that the economy doesn't actually work, or it doesn't work, or it's inequitable, and you don't even know how jobs are going to happen for all these people. There's a thousand, and thousands of people who are going to be out of work, you have to multiply by three or four, they're members of the household. Where are all those people, who are growing in numbers, who can't achieve income by personal work? So we are now in a situation as a member of the Economic Council of the Government, Mr. Stamenkovic, says we are actually putting out the fire. I ask you, Mrs Dragutinovic, what happens after the fire? Will we be able to shut it down and what happens after the fire? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18674	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposing's representative, Dr Diana Dragutinovic, want the final word? Yeah. ) The word has the finance minister Mrs Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18675	The honourable MPs, the respected presidency, have concluded the debate in particular when it comes to the income tax of citizens. The existing system of cedular taxes, which has been followed by complementary annual income tax, is now changing only in detail and, in our opinion, it increases the fairness of the existing law. Two important changes. The first change refers to equalising treatment, i.e. the tax burden of copyright fees with labour contracts. I don't think there's anything controversial about it. Labour contracts, current rate is 20%, effective rate is 16%. It was also wanted to be done with the author's fees. Another major change is taxation of dividend income. The current rate was a nominal 20%. The effective one, in fact, was 10%, with this law becoming 16% effective. It's not about any enormous increase in tax burden, it really seems to me that it's about increasing justice. As for some comments and some, let me say, almost difficult words, especially when it comes to MP Zoran Babic, I don't think we understand each other anywhere. The reason or erasure of Article 9a has absolutely nothing to do with increasing the tax burden. Only the Income Tax Act is made consistent with the amended Insurance Act. There are no more benefits under the Insurance Act, but actions, and actions are not taxed under our bill, or according to the citizens' income tax. Therefore, treatment does not change and there is no reason for the government to be ashamed. As far as the act of inheritance is concerned, the act of succession is not disputed. There's no tax on the inheritance act, but there's no reason for anyone to gain capital gains by selling what he inherited from not being taxed. We're not taxing snails, we're taxing the income that's being made by selling, and I don't think there should be anything controversial about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18676	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Accizes (single) You have received amendments submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to the bill, as well as amendments submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion. On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee, as incomplete, rejected the amendment to Article 1. The bill was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, and the rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 1 be added in front of Article 1. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2 be added after Article 1. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5 be added after the current Article 2 which becomes Article 4. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Since we have completed the examination of the bill's proposal in particular, does the proposing's representative, Dr Diana Dragutinovic, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Judicial Taxes (single) I ask the National Assembly to call on Minister of Justice, Snezana Malović, to enter the hall. I welcome the Minister of Finance's decision to attend and search the details of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Radica Jocić, Milan Avramović, Dragan Aćimović, Dragan Todorovic, Goran Mihajlović, Vesna Marić, Aleksandar Martinović, Branimir Đokić, Petar Jojić, Nikola Žutić, Dragan Živković, Dusan Marić, Dušanka Pljević, Bojan Mladenović, Slađan Miljaljević, Natasa Jovanovic, Boris Jovanović, Radiša Ilic, Momar Marković, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevlić, Dejan Mirović, Vitomir Plužarić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Filip Stojanović, Sredija Perić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Nikola Savić, Marina Ragus, Milovan Radovanovic, Milan M. Nikolović, Srboljubovljan Živanovic, Dobrislav Prelić, Dobrislav Prelić, Žilić Žilić and Živić Živić, Živić, Živić Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić Živić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18677	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Elena Christmas-Talian submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 14th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14th of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Would you like a word, Mrs. Ragush? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18678	I'm sorry, but it really is an energetic reading of the amendments, like we're on a proper auction of amendments, and I can kind of get some kind of amendment or the whole law to move on. What was the intention of the SRS amendments? In order to maintain the current amount of tax, in particular Article 14(6), we requested that it be deleted from heading 1. We really think, although we know that, given the situation that the budget should be filled, that this budget rebalance will most likely be a transitional solution, that the situation that the money is gone and that the government, as Mrs Dragutinovic said, decided to take something from everyone for this very linear reduction. Now we're trying to offer as many data as possible, assuming that the government has that picture and we assume that in the end they all meet and that, based on certain statistics, they should know what the effects of the implementation of these laws will be. We think that every increase in the amount is an additional burden, realizing the situation that money has to come from somewhere. We expected there to be a minister of justice, but somehow we knew it wouldn't be there. There it is, we welcome Mrs. Malovic, the minister of justice. There will be opportunities to hear the effects of such measures when it comes to the need of all citizens, and there is no citizen who will not use certain services of judicial institutions. We think that these are additional commitments, and in the next report we will prepare an even greater number of data that speak of whether or not interventions will be reduced within the judicial institutions, or citizens will be in trouble to send up accumulated fees.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18679	The amendments were submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was tabled by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 14th Amendment was submitted by Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milan Veselinović submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Do you want a word, Mrs. Ragush? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18680	Just not to take advantage of the opportunity of Mrs. Malovic being there and Mr. Homen. Of course, the amendment was not accepted. We asked for article 22 to be deleted, with the intention of not burdening the citizens further. However, I would just like to take the opportunity to ask the following: the other day we were talking about the accidental spending of budget funds and how blind the state is when it comes to the transparency of the spending of funds, which comes to the burden of all taxpayers, so, among other things, we instructed a report by the Justice Ministry's supervisory and internal control group, which is in the description of the jobs and tasks of the control of all indirect beneficiaries of the budgets which the Ministry of Justice is delivering from the budget of the Republic. In this way, internal controllers have made an insight. It's about 2007, the minister of justice was Mr. Dusan Petrovic. The SRS Anti-Corruption Council has analysed this report well. 14 subsequent controls of judicial authorities have been carried out throughout Serbia and all controls have established illegal and accidental spending of funds. We have cited several specific examples here. It is a trade court in Sombor, the Trade Court in Nis, the District Court in Novi Sad and the Municipal Court in Vrsac. I'm limited in time, unfortunately, I won't be able to commit much. My colleagues heard a more detailed report. For example, Vrsac Municipal Court, what was very impressive for us, these are illegal costs that were not approved by the budget, amounting to nearly 80,000 dinars, e.g. at the expense of getting medicines from a pharmacy prescribed by a doctor. The same case was with the costs of the team, which were not approved by the budget, but were paid by budget funds both in 2006 and in 2007, amounting to around 60,000 dinars. The control also showed that the Vrsac Municipal Court bought beer, wine, whiskey, vermouth, peanuts and figs, etc., that a bar account spent around 23,205 dinars on the burden of the Republic's budget. These were representative examples. Mr Dusan Petrovic initialled a report by the Justice Ministry's oversight and internal control group, as a report that is fully in line with existing legislation. However, the report itself speaks of it, and finds internal controls, that the funds were unintendedly and illegally spent. Of course, we have official reports. This has nothing to do with you directly, it is an inherited situation, but given this example, we can only believe that everything that is the tax burden of Serbian citizens can also repeat these examples, especially in a situation where we do not have final accounts and audit of final accounts. Now I should ask you whether the funds will be spent on purpose during this year and I suppose you will immediately say yes, of course they will. What is important is the question, again, has no direct connection with you, whether these funds will justify what they are imposing on the tax burden of all citizens, especially as a growing number of citizens are stuck within judicial institutions, given the period of particularly litigation. In the first place, I'd like to ask Mr. Home if he's really in conflict of interest when it comes to your statement, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, the media have passed on, your official position still doesn't know that you've asked for work-law disputes to be postponed indefinitely? We think that this is a situation that deserves you to sort of respond to what the media has been writing, and the Republic Directorate for Conflict of Interest has responded in this situation, and I think that citizens deserve the answer to this question as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18681	Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18682	Unfortunately, I'm disabled, I can't talk about a specific amendment, but I can use the time, just two more minutes for the parliamentary group. Just good luck, Mrs. Malovic, that you were here the other day, so we could finally launch certain topics that are very sensitive, but they deserved a certain debate and your qualification as a resolute minister. The topic was the Zemun municipality and the legality of the interim procedure, but we're not going to talk about it, it's not on the agenda right now. What I'd like to hear as your official response to this situation we've been talking about for days, we're going to send you this entire file of illegal and unintended spending of funds within the Department of Justice and we're going to ask you for an official answer as to why you've never been initiated in this regard. Or, what should the Ministry of Justice do, in the sense that it is established, on the basis of an official report, the accidental and unlawful spending of budget funds by the president or other persons in the context of courts? Then what does the Justice Ministry need to do, and this is about the financial resources of Serbian citizens? So we will be free to complete you these days, with concrete official reports, the entire file of illegal and non-intentional spending, send to the Ministry, expecting you and a concrete reaction, and now I would like to hear an answer to what the Justice Department should do in that case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18683	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) She submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Lydia Dimitrijevic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative, Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18684	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in short lines, I will give the final word on amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes. The main reason for proposing these amendments and additions lies in the fact that this law was last amended in 2005. Also, the reason for proposing amendments to this law is the need to provide funds for the financing of the construction or adaptation of judicial bodies which have already been initiated or planned in these years. I will also remind you that according to the existing Law on judicial fees, this type of purpose was not foreseen. In view of the fact that a nominal amount of court fees has been depreciated over the past period due to economic developments, and that judicial fees according to their legal nature compensation for the work of the court, the proposed solutions contain an increase in their height for all types of proceedings on average from 40 to 50% compared to the current level. In this respect, a correction of the level of value of the dispute has been made, as well as charges for litigation, enforcement, non-parony proceedings, land-marking proceedings and procedures for enrolment in other public books on immovable property, bankruptcy and reorganisation proceedings, criminal proceedings under private suit, proceedings in administrative dispute and special cases. A proposal like this was triggered by the fact that the latest increase in court fees, as I said, was carried out in August 2005. It should also be borne in mind that a significant source of revenue financed by the work of judicial authorities is seriously reduced each year, if the overall increase in prices per year is analysed for the same period from 2005 to 2008, according to official data from the Republic Statistics Office. The bill envisions speeding up the process of charging court fees, where the time limit for voluntary payment is reduced from 15 days to eight days. Proposed amendments to the law are being made to the Law on judicial fees with a new set of judicial laws adopted in this assembly in December of last year. Finally, I would like to point out that the proposed increase in the level of court fees is actually returning to the level of the last increase in August 2005, given inflation for the last four years, which amounted to slightly more than 46%. The burden on citizens and the economy regarding the payment of court fees is realistically the same as on previous amendments to the law. As regards the issues of MPs who have referred to the reactions of the Ministry of Justice in relation to the internal control report, and for the purposeless use of the funds, the Ministry of Justice has a single range of powers, and this authority is primarily based on the conclusion of the proposal and the measure in relation to judicial authorities and authorities for infringements of what they have to do on the findings. Then, depending on what kind of offences it is, the Ministry of Justice can certainly file criminal or criminal charges. Unrelated to who was at the head of the Justice Ministry, I know that in previous years the Ministry of Justice has done so, that in certain cases criminal charges have been filed, but certainly related to the specific case that you stated in relation to the Municipal Court in Vrsac, we will provide you with a detailed answer in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18685	I'm concluding a search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Peace and Fire of Debt on the basis of the Competence for Obligation to Health Security (Single) Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 142(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PRIMATE SECTOR AND THE PUBLIC SECTOR (single) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Marina Ragus, Milan Avramović, Dejan Mirović, Dragan Stevanović, Nenad Popović, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic, Mićo Rogović, Veroljub Arsic, Natasa Jovanovic, Srdan Miković, Sreto Perić, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Vladan Jeremic, Jorgka Tabaković and Aleksandar Martinović and Vlad. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that the Legislative Committee has rejected as incomplete amendments to Article 6. The bill was submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Veroljub Arsic, so they, in accordance with Article 148(3). The Rules of Procedure, they will not be discussed. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. An MP has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Marina Ragush. Would you like a word, Mrs. Ragush? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18686	Just please tell me how much time I have left as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18687	You only have time scheduled for the amendments, you spent all the rest of your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18688	Everything? It's my big disappointment, but what can I do? I'll make sure that in these two minutes, at least I say the explanation of this amendment. Our amendment said that article 1 was deleted. This article shall be governed by a temporary reduction of salary. The explanation is important because of Serbian citizens. The SRS believes that the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a legal solution, by whom it knows which way so far, in the worst possible way, deceives citizens and the public of Serbia. If one of these laws were passed, we believe that this would in no way contribute to budget savings and the coverage of the budget deficit, which is likely to exceed 100 billion dinars by the end of the year. If DS, as the strongest party in the coalition, had really taken care of the rational spending of budget funds, today the apparatus of the state administration would not have employed around 28,000 instead of the 8,000 employees found in 2000. Employment was carried out according to the party criteria, without public competition and procedure decidently prescribed by law. This employment was preceded by the establishment of various agencies, commissions, councils and other regulatory bodies that today have about 102 in Serbia and which as such represent parallel and virtual authorities of the state administration. In doing so, this bill is another farce when it comes to savings on employees' salaries and salaries, incentives and bonuses of public business management, as well as large systems. For the past eight years, the SRS has continued to point to the fact that public enterprises are party feuds and serve to fund the ruling political parties, and above all, the party in power. So we believe that the proposed law will not have any effect because the creation of budget savings is not only a matter of reduction of salaries in the state administration, but of depoliticalisation and rationalisation of the state apparatus, and above all it is a matter of dealing with corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18689	The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Would you like a word, Mr. Popovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18690	In particular, this amendment suggested that the funds collected from the wage cuts, which the government had imagined were going to cover the deficits, not go there. The deficit won't help develop the economy. These funds should be channelled to the Development Fund. Why the Development Fund? Because it's still the only institution, it's our development bank that businesses and businesses can turn to to get loans. Commercial banks can now lend loans perhaps once, two or three percent of enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, and 97% of businesses in Serbia cannot get loans from commercial banks, because they are burdened by bad balances, as businesses have been privatised over the past few years. The rate of dinar compared to the euro contributed to the fact that at the end of the year virtually all businesses had negative balances. Banks commercially can't lend loans to these companies, they're 97%. In Serbia, he's here every hour while we're discussing 15 businesses being shut down and fired 30 workers every hour. That rock's gonna get bigger. Simply, the savings of eight billion that are obtained by cutting wages is significant, eight billion is a large number, but I'll just repeat that from customs, which we don't charge because we unilaterally started applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that figure is three or four times larger. That's unfortunately the reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18691	On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgvanka Tabakovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18692	I have provided for a criminal policy which is so undefined and broadly given by law, just as defined and how funds will be channelled in a special republican budget fund collected for this purpose. I asked that this criminal policy be precise and that the fine is for those who violate this law from 150 thousand to a million and 500 thousand dinars. Allow me to read one of the August 1908 texts for Serbian citizens, which concerns this matter. "The Serbian state's censure should first serve its party, then Serbia's state. The very foundation is fatal to the proper development of the state, as much as it creates in the act of state loose character, without a certain firm principle, which for the love of position and class easily passes into lawlessness and violence, only if they are given from the top of the administration for it to be given a warrant. That is the cause of corruption affecting the mass of Serbian acts. There is no faith in the preparation and ability, there is no awareness of the duty to be received, there is no thought of responsibility for failure in the work, there only counts with a party card, which is a diploma for advancement and protection for all failures and sins committed. Where it works like that, there can't be any security and good rank. This is where corruption will reign forever." So it was in Serbia a hundred years ago, so it is today. The problem, though old, is not insecure, and the first step in solving this old and difficult problem is exactly criminal policy. A certain degree of punishment and tightening of criminal policy is the only way we can resolve a lack of respect for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-28-0.u18693	I thank Mrs. Tabakovic. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word in accordance with Article 144? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. In view of the fact that the National Assembly has conducted a search on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint 29 April 2009, so tomorrow at 4:00 p.m., as a day for voting on all points of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. You didn't answer the phone before I asked if the proposing's representatives wanted a word. I've concluded, I'm really sorry. Following the debate on the last amendment, only the proposing representative is scheduled to take part in the debate and then to conclude the examination of the bill. By then, then, until the last amendment, you could have answered. It's usually like that in the Rules of Procedure, when there's an amendment, that's how it is. So, by the last amendment, you can come forward, and after the debate under the last amendment, only a representative of the promoter, or a representative of the Government, can receive the word in this case. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow at 4:00 at the vote. We'll keep working on Thursday, but I'll let you know tomorrow. So on Thursday, we'll have a session at 4:00 p.m., we expect government and government issues, etc. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 176 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to decision-making points on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the 2009 amending and supplementing financial plans. YEAR: (a) the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, (b) the Republic Health Insurance Institute, (v) the National Employment Services. Before we move to a decision on the Amendment Act and the Supplements to the 2009 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, in principle. For 128, against 33, of 163 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that by written amendment, the MPs withdrew Petar Jojic to Article 3, Dragan Stevanović to Article 3, Aleksandar Martinović to Article 3, Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 1, Vesna Maric to Article 2. item 1, in which the word "credit" is replaced by the words: "taxing property of more than one million dinars" and Donka Banovic to Article 6. Section 59, in which the amount of ‘171,842,000’ is amended as follows: ‘131,842,000’; that the Legislative Committee has rejected, as incomplete, because it considers that it does not comply with Articles 10 and 26. Law on the budgetary system, amendments to the People's MPs: Milos Radulovic to Article 1, Dušanka Plecevic to Article 1, Dusan Marić to Article 1, Ljubisa Petkovic to Article 1 and Sreto Peric to Article 1; that the Legislative Committee rejected, as incomplete, because he considers that they do not comply with Article 10. The Law on the Budgetary System, Amendments of People's MPs: Nikola Lazić to Article 1, Mirko Munjic to Article 1, Aleksandra Martinović to Articles 1 and 2, Bojan Mladenovic to Article 1, Milan M. Nikolic to Article 1, Elena Christmas-Taljan to Members 1 and 2, Milan Vesenović to Articles 1 and 2, Goran Mihajlovic to Article 1, Dejan Mirović to Article 1, Milan Avramović to Article 1, Gordana Pavnović to Article 1, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic to Article 1, Milorad Buha to Article 1, Dragan Acimović to Article 1, Jovana Palalić to Article 1, and 2, Milan Lapčević to Article 2, Radice Jocic to Article 2, Boris Aleksic to Article 2, Dusan Marić to Article 2, Government Milojković to Article 2, Nataša Jovanovic to Article 2, Vesna Marić to Article 2, Milan Lapčević to Article 2, Milorad Krstin to Article 2, to Article 2, to Article 2, to Article 2, to Article 2, to Mr Jocić to the Members of the Members of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the 26 of the Republic of the 26 of the 26 of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the 26 of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European of the European of the European of the European of the Republic of the European of the European of the European of the European of the Republic of the European of the European of the European of the European of the European of the European of the European of the European. Law on the budgetary system of the amendment of Members: Marine Toman to Article 1, Sulejman Spaha to Article 1, Milan Škrbić to Article 1, Marine Ragus to Article 1, Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 1, Dragan Stevanović to Article 1, Milovan Radovanovic to Article 1, Dragan Todorovic to Article 1, Filip Stojanović to Article 1, Milan Lapčević to Article 1, Milice Vojić-Marković to Article 5 and the amendments submitted jointly by Slobodan Maraš and Judita Popovic to Article 4; that the Legislative Committee is on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected, as incomplete, the amendments of the People's MPs of Sreto Perić to Article 6 and Zoran Nikolic to Article 6; that they became an integral part of the Bill's proposal of the National MPs of Radojko Obradović to Article 1, with correction, Milovan Radovanovic to Article 2, Bojan Mladenovic to Article 2, Gordana Pop-Lazić to Article 2, Jorvanka Tabaković to Article 5, Split 1, Milorad Krstin to Article 5, Split 11, Gorica Mojović to Article 10, with the correction of 23, with the correction, Arsena Đurić to Member 59, Milorad Buhe to Article 8, Nenada Popović to Article 9, Nikole Savić to Article 10, with the correction, Milan Škrbić to Article 14 and Zoran Popović to Article 15, the Financial Committee for Finance to Article 5 of the Chamber of the 5th Division, the Government of the 17th Division of the Government, and the 17th Amendment to the 17th and to the 17th Amendment to the Government of the 17th and to the 17th and to the Government of Parliament of the 17th and to the Government. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The first amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabaković. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 136 out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against one, of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 133 MPs. On Article 1 of the amendment, MEP Natasa Jovanovic puts this amendment to the vote. For one of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic.. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18 of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 130 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 130 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 130 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 130 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 130 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 130 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 130 of the 131st MP. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Marina Ragush submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 132 out of 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 131 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 131 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 131 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 131 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 133, of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 134, out of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 133, of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 133, of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 132 out of 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 132 out of 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 131 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 131 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 130 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. (National MP Marina Ragus from the post: Voting for the amendment of MP Dragan Acimovic has been repeated. I put this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 129 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 129 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Dusanka Plecevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 129 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Judita Popovic and Slobodan Maras and MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, it did not vote 130 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 142 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, he did not vote 131 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, he did not vote 131 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, he did not vote 131 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, he did not vote 130 out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, it did not vote 128, of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against one, of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 133 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Boris aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 131 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, of the 141 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 5 of the First Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The first amendment was submitted to article 5 of the amendment by Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 2nd amendment was submitted by Boris Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted to Article 5 of the amendment by Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, Sections 3 and 17 of the amendment, Riza Halimi submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Tomislav Nikolic submitted to Article 5 of the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Zoran Ostojić to article 5. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Sections 3 and 9 of Article 5 by Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 5, of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branimir Djokic submitted to Article 5 of the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted to article 5 of the amendment by Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 138 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the third amendment was submitted by Momchilo Duvnjak. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted to article 5 by Dragan Acimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, of the 141 people's MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic to section 5th and 19th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against one, of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Zlata Djeric to Article 5 of Sections 3 and 19. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, of the 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan Veselinović submitted to the 5th division of the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Vukicevic submitted to the 5th edition of the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one of the 138 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Veroljub Arsic submitted to article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted to Article 5 of the amendment by Ivan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. They didn't vote 142 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted to article 5 of the amendment by Srboljub Zivanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 146 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic to Sections 3 and 21. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It didn't vote 137 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5 of Section 3, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 34, 39 and 55, MP Milan Lapcevic submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, it did not vote 138, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Jovan Damjanovic submitted to article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it didn't vote 150 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the third amendment was submitted by Slobodan Vuković. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 140 out of 141 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talijan. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 140 out of 141 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, he did not vote 141 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted to article 5 of the amendment by Zoran Antic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7, 137 of the 144 MPs present did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The third amendment was submitted to Article 5 of the amendment by Stefan Zankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, it did not vote 134, out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Igor Becic submitted to Article 5 of the Third Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, they did not vote 132 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, it did not vote 133, out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by Jelena Budimirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, they did not vote 132, of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to article 5th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, they didn't vote 142 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic to section 5th and 19th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, it did not vote 132, of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 154, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 5th amendment was submitted by Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 138, out of 139 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted to article by Dragan Zivkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 138, out of 139 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 5th amendment was submitted by Nikola Žutic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 138, out of 139 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 5, the 5th amendment was submitted by Radis Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 138, out of 139 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 8th Amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 138, out of 139 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 5, the 8th amendment was submitted by Natas Micic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 140 out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5 of the 8th Amendment, Natasa Jovanovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 139 out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 5 of the 9th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 140 out of 141 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 9th amendment was submitted by Mico Rogovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, it did not vote 135, of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radica Jocic submitted to article 5 of the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, they didn't vote 142 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 9th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 139 out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 9th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 139 out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 144 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic to section 5th and 25th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, it did not vote 133, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 153, of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the fifth division of the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 152 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Đuric to article 5 of Sections 12, 14 and 55 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 136, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by Vesna Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 152 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 144 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 13th Amendment was submitted by Gojko Radic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, it did not vote 133, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 14th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by Otto Kishmarton. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, it did not vote 133, out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Sasa Maksimovic submitted the 14th amendment to article 5. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, it did not vote 135, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Zoran Masic to Sections 14 and 15. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, it did not vote 133, out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 146 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Sladjan Mijaljević submitted to article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 148, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted the amendments to Sections 14 and 15. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 25, it did not vote 129 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Sections 15 and 20th of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, it did not vote 130, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 15th Amendment was submitted by Slobodan Maras. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 153, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted to article 5 by Vlad Milojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 148, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 15th amendment was submitted by Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 148, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 15th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by Goran Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 148, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 15th amendment was submitted by Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 148, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 15th Amendment was submitted by Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 143 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5 of the 16th Amendment, Bojan Mladenovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 148, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by Zoran Shami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, it did not vote 138, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 5, the 18th Amendment was submitted by Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 151 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted to article 5 by Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 151 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan M. Nikolic submitted to Article 5 of the 19th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 152, of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic to section 5 of the 19th and 55th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, it did not vote 136, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th Amendment was submitted to article 5 of the amendment by Milet Poscurica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, 132 out of 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 21st Amendment was submitted by Vuceta Toskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, 132 out of 153 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Article 5 of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 152 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 22nd amendment was submitted by Nebojsa Rangelovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 146, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 22nd Amendment was submitted by Momo Colaković. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, 139 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Željko Tomic to Article 5 of Sections 22 and 55. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, 132 out of 152 MPs didn't vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 23rd amendment was submitted by Nenad Prokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 152, of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Sreto Peric submitted to article 5 of the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 147 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 5, the 24th Amendment was tabled by Bozidar Delic, and I am putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, it did not vote 134, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dušanka Plecevic submitted to article 5 of the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 147 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 26th Amendment was submitted by Dobrislav Prelic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against one, 145 of the 147 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted to article 5 of the amendment by the Verse of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 144 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to article 5. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 144 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 34th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 146 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 35th amendment was submitted to article 5 by Dragan Colic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, it did not vote 144 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 35th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by Sulejman Spaho. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan Knezevic submitted to Article 5 of the 36th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In two, it did not vote 143 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5th of the amendment, Dragan Stevanovic submitted the amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Philip Stojanovic submitted to Article 5 of the 41st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 5, the 52nd Amendment was submitted by Marina Toman. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan Škrbic submitted to article 5th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nenad Popovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, 132 out of 148 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Nikola Lazic to Section 6 of the 57th and 58th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, 132 out of 148 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan Škrbic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 147 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6, the 57th Amendment was submitted by Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 143 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. He submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment Jadranka Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 143 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Boris Aleksic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 143 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6, the 57 amendments were submitted by Marina Toman. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 143 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6, the 57 amendments were submitted by Suleiman Spaho. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 143 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic to section 6 of the 57th and 58th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, it did not vote 135, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it didn't vote 150 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Philip Stojanovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 148, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 6, the 57th Amendment was filed by Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 148, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, 57 amendments were submitted by Dragan Acimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, it did not vote 147 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Pejcic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, it did not vote 136 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milan Veselinović submitted to the 6th division of the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 149, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 6, the 57th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragan Stevanovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 6th edition of the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragan Todorovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th of the 57th Amendment was filed by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Jovan Damjanovic submitted to Article 6 of the 57th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 148, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic to Sections 57, 59 and 61. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, it did not vote 136, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 58th Amendment was submitted by Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 147 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted to article 6 by Dragan Zivkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 146 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to Article 6 of the 58th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted to article 6 of the amendment by Nikola Žutić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dušanka Plecevic submitted to Article 6 of the 58th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branimir Djokic submitted to Article 6 of the 58th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 6th, the 58th amendment was submitted by Radis Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 6, the 58th Amendment was submitted by Momchilo Duvnjak. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 6th division of the 58th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 6th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radica Jocic submitted to article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 6, the 59th Amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 146 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Donka Banovic submitted to Article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, it did not vote 136 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 6, the 59th Amendment was filed by Zoran Shami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, it did not vote 134, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milos Radulovic submitted to article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, it did not vote 136 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to Article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 147 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Sladjan Mijaljević submitted to Article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 147 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 59th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 146 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Vesna Maric submitted to Article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 59th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Krstin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th edition of the 59th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 145, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Marina Ragush submitted to Article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, it did not vote 144 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6th, the 59th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 144 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic to article 6th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 144 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. Peter Jojic submitted to article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, there were 141 out of 142 MPs. Dobrislav Prelic submitted to article 6 of the 59th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. On Article 6th, the 59th Amendment was submitted by Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. On Article 6th, the 60th Amendment was submitted by Vlad Milojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 6th edition of the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The 6th edition of the 60th Amendment was submitted by Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 6th Division of the 60th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 6th division of the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. On Article 6th, the 61st Amendment was submitted by Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, there were 141 out of 142 MPs. Milan M. Nikolic submitted to Article 6 of the 61st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 142 out of 142 MPs didn't vote. The 6th edition of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, there were 141 out of 142 MPs. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7, there was no vote of 140, out of 147 MPs. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras, Nenad Popovic and Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 138, out of 147 MPs. Member of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 146, out of 147 MPs. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, it did not vote 138, out of 146 MPs. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, it did not vote 137 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 146 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 146, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 144 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Zoran Shami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, it did not vote 133, out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, it did not vote 138, out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 144 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In two, it did not vote 134, of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 129 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gojko Radic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed to add a new article 10a after article 10a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, it did not vote 130, out of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, it did not vote 136 out of 139 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, it did not vote 128, of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 143 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 135, out of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, it did not vote 129 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, it did not vote 129 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 144 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, there were 141 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, it did not vote 128, out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, it did not vote 127, out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, it did not vote 129 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, it did not vote 130 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, it did not vote 131 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 146 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, 142 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, they did not vote 123 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 147 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Tomislav Ljubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 146 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, they did not vote 144 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Masic submitted an amendment with an amendment suggesting that a new article 13a be added after article 13. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, they did not vote 133, out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Shami submitted to the 14th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, they didn't vote 132, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, he did not vote 131 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 148, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Abstained one, not 128, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7, he did not vote 131 out of 138 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, it did not vote 129 out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, it did not vote 130, out of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For the three MPs, it did not vote 130, out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dear People's MPs, I find that several amendments to the text of the draft law have been adopted, some of which require technical harmonisation of certain provisions of the bill with the amendments adopted. Namely, pursuant to Article 10. The law on the budgetary system, the budget consists of a general and specific part, which must be brought into line with the types of expenditure. Some of the amendments have been amended in a specific part of the budget, which has not been followed by appropriate technical harmonisation of the general budget provisions. In view of this, I propose that the National Assembly Service, before the publication of the law, in cooperation with the appropriate government service, carry out this technical harmonisation of the text of the law with the amendments adopted. I'm putting this motion to the vote, and I'm asking the people's people to make a statement about it. For 127, against one, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I remind you he's a 20. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there is a particularly justified reason for this when they are adopted. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, within the meaning of Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, consisting in the need to ensure the smooth functioning of state authorities, in line with the need to take appropriate measures to prevent the negative consequences of the global economic crisis in Serbia. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. For 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, as a whole. For 127, against 16, of 143 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. Since we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009... I'm sorry, I said '2008', I'm correcting '2009'. Since we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the 2009 Budget of the Republic of Serbia, we are moving to a decision on the proposals for decisions by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to agree on changes and additions to financial plans for 2009: the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the Republic Institute for Health Insurance and the National Employment Service. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2009 Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. For 127, it did not vote 10 out of 137 MPs reported in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the 2009 Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2009 Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the 2009 Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2009 Decision on amendments and additions to the 2009 Financial Plan of the National Employment Service. For 127, of 127 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the 2009 National Service Financial Plan. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Use, COUNTRY AND NOSE OF GOODS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods, in principle. For 126, against 10, two out of 138 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the draft law in principle, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Branka Ljiljak to Article 4. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 131 out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7, there was no 129 vote of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, it did not vote 131 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, it did not vote 133, out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, it did not vote 138, out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 125 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 125 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, it did not vote 127 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, it did not vote 126, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against one, was not voted by 126, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 4th Amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, a abstentioned one, 126 out of 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In two, it did not vote 127 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, it did not vote 127, out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 126, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic and MP Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It wasn't 127 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It wasn't 127 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Lidija Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th Amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 32nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, in general. For 125, against one, two out of 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Civilian Income Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as incomplete, rejected the amendment of MP Veroljub Arsic to Article 1, and the rejected amendment cannot be discussed and it cannot be voted on. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, two abstentions, it was not 123 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Milorad Buha. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It wasn't 127 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabaković. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Abstained one, not 127, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, it did not vote 124 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In two, it did not vote 126, out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against one, it did not vote 124 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. For 127 MPs, against one, of 128 MPs of the people. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, in general. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON EXCUSES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Excise Act, in principle. For 127, against one, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on the draft law in general, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as incomplete, rejected MP Zoran Krasic's amendment to Article 1 and the rejected amendment cannot be discussed and it is not voted on, and that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to the Government for the addition of a new Article 1, new Articles 2 and 5 and amendments to Articles 1 and 5. I put to the vote the bill amending the Excise Act, in general. For 127, against one, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill amending the Excise Act. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT TEXT Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, in principle. For 125, against one, they did not vote two out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that it is the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure, dismissed, as incomplete, an amendment to Article 2. The bill was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 125 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 125 out of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Elena Christmas-Talian. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 126, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 126, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I apologize, the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MP submitted to Article 11 of the amendment... [[Zagor in the O.R.]] (The President warns the Messengers with the bell. I wanted to consult, we could finish this without a break. If you're tired and you're suggesting a break? (All in voice: No. No, no, no, Then I'm asking you to cooperate a little. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milan M. Nikolic submitted the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Marina Ragush has submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 129 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 129 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 129 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Please, Mr. Dimitrijevic can't hear, and he wants to follow. Mr. Dimitrievich, you're not in the O.R. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 14th Amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Branimir Djokic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 18th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against one, was not a vote of 125, of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 126, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Verica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 127, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was filed by Elena Christmas-Talian. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Abstained one, not 129 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In two, it did not vote 127 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in general. For 127, against one, they did not vote two out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Peace and Fired Debt on the basis of the Health Insurance Obligation Competence, since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the rest and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance, in principle. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, we are moving to a decision on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the rest and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance, in general. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly has adopted the draft law amending the Law on Peace and Debt write-off on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Temporary Reduction of Salary, i.e. earnings, Net Refunds and Other Incomes in State Administration and Public Sector After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on temporary wage cuts, i.e. earnings, rather than fees and other incomes in the state administration and the public sector, in principle. For 128, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. An integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the government to Article 2. The bill, because it was adopted by the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I remind you that the Legislative Committee has rejected as incomplete amendments to Article 6. The bill was submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic and Veroljub Arsic, and then, in accordance with Article 148(3). The Rules of Procedure won't vote. Also, MP Srdjan Mikovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 7. It's a bill of law. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, it did not vote 127 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment, the Financial Committee has put this amendment to the vote. For 127, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 129 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 129 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 129 out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, it did not vote 128, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I remind you it's Article 10. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In light of the bill's proposal, the government has stated that by adopting the law, to some extent, it will address the problems caused by the negative effects of the global economic crisis, which is why it is scheduled to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. For 127 MPs, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on temporary wage cuts, i.e. earnings, net remuneration and other receipts in the state administration and the public sector, in general. For 127 MPs, two of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft law on temporary wage cuts, i.e. earnings, net remuneration and other incomes in the state administration and the public sector. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3 of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international agreements, most of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel between citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Russian Federation, in principle. For 151, a abstention one, was not voted by two, of 154 MPs. Most of the votes of all MPs were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel between citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Russian Federation, in general. For 151, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conditions of mutual travel of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Russian Federation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decision, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I'd like to inform you that the 4th session is due tomorrow, April 30th, at 10.00 p.m. I thank you for your patience and your cooperation.
