ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22111	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the process of developing the legal framework necessary for the development of e-business, the Republic of Serbia began by adopting the Law on Electronic Signature in 2004. The adoption of the Law on the Electronic Document is a step further in the legal regulation of electronic business, with a particular emphasis on settling those issues that are relevant for the practice, i.e. the functioning of electronic business. This law prescribes the conditions to be met by an electronic document in order to be legally relevant to the use of the electronic document, administrative, judicial and other procedures, as well as the rights, obligations and responsibilities. One of the basic issues under this law is the question of the legal position of the electronic document in legal matters, administrative, judicial and other proceedings. The basic legal solution is that the electronic document cannot challenge the fullness and the evidence force simply because it is in electronic form. The second significant question of the legal position of the electronic document, for which the law provides a solution, is a matter of form, i.e. what happens if the regulation, as a condition of the fullness of the legal act, legal work or other legal action, is a mandatory written form. This law provides a solution whereby, in that case, the relevant electronic document is signed by a qualified electronic signature and in accordance with the Electronic Signature Act. The qualified electronic signature in relation to the data in electronic form shall have the same legal fact and evidence power as the handwritten signature, i.e. the handwritten signature and stamp, in relation to the data in paper form. The third important issue of legal regulation of the legal position of the electronic document is the question of the original of the electronic document. The legal solution allows the electronic document, which was originally created in electronic form, to be considered an original and to be equivalent in legal transport to a document on paper in classical business. Legal solutions proposed by this law also provide legal basis for the digitisation of documents by authorities, legal entities and entrepreneurs and regulate the legal position of such documents. The basic legal solution is that the electronic document created by the digitisation of the original document, whose form is not electronic, is considered a copy of the original document. Legislative solutions will now allow for the first time the delivery of electronic documents between authorities and parties and between the authorities themselves by electronic means or e-mail. The use of e-mail in accordance with the law shall be considered to be a legally relevant means of communication between parties and authorities in administrative, judicial and other proceedings. The legislative solutions will have a positive impact on the development and introduction of electronic administrations and electronic services for citizens and businesses. In particular, it will affect the exchange of electronic documents within the authorities and in procedures for the exercise of rights, obligations and legal interests of citizens and economic operators. Today, the parties are parties to information between authorities, and legal solutions allow the elimination of such practices. The main objective of legal regulation is to encourage the wider use of electronic documents by citizens, legal entities and authorities in our country. Using and exchanging electronic documents between these entities will contribute to raising the overall efficiency of work, significant material savings and improving the quality of life of citizens. Increasing the use and exchange of electronic documents instead of paper documents will lead to increased labour efficiency, simplifying procedures before authorities, easier search and publication of documents, which is particularly important for more effective achievement of citizens' rights to the availability of information of public importance. The specific objectives of legislative regulation are to open a space for more intensive electronic business, create the trust of the highest public in the use and exchange of electronic documents through open telecommunications networks and achieve the competitiveness of our economy in the world market. In particular, it should be pointed out that the application of the law should cause cuts in costs and savings, above all, administrative but also the costs of citizens and businesses. The Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, as the authority responsible for overseeing the implementation of this law, will launch an initiative to amend certain rules governing the procedure for regulating the rights and obligations of legal persons and citizens, in particular with regard to the possibility of using and exchanging electronic documents instead of paper documents. It will also launch activities to develop and implement projects for the introduction of electronic services for citizens and businesses in all the Serbian executive authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22112	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The Justice and Administration Committee, MP Bosko Ristic? (No) Legislative Committee Chairman Vlatko Ratkovic? (No) Do the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word, and in order of least, that is, from a MP who is not a member of any parliamentary group, to a representative or president of the largest parliamentary group? So, does he want the word of the PUPS party president? (No) An MP group of minorities, does he want the word of a president or an authorised representative? (No) The NS parliamentary group, does it want the word of the president or the authorised representative? (No) LDP, does the president or the authorised representative want the word? (No) Authorised representative of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, MP Dejan Radenkovic, does he want a word? (No) The Prosperity Group for Serbia, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic? (Yes) Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22113	I think it's a very important law over which, probably because of the fatigue and the late hours of last night, many colleagues simply want to go, part of it because of the fatigue and your unreasonable haste to go over it, and part of it because the weight of such acts cannot be seen at this time. It's about talking about modern technologies that need to help speed up the process of work. What I'm trying to say is that we need to understand that this modern technology should serve a man, not that a man serves them, but I'm afraid sometimes, in the heat of law-making, authors, or promoters, or those who, on behalf of the Government here, do not know exactly how to look at it. We had a minister of local self-government here yesterday who, representing the law on the municipal police, considered the law more important than what it should serve. And many of the ministers, perhaps, even, many of us, when we enter this hall, simply forget that the laws we bring here concern some living people and real life. When they enter here, many ministers think – my law, my proposal, my party. Many debaters and MPs think about how to contribute to their party's reputation, some, even, think about voters, but I urge that in the discussion of this law and, if possible, all other laws, we talk about all our citizens whose representatives we are, regardless of who we represent, and that behind these documents we see real situations and living people. I want to talk about one piece of this law, and it's called a time stamp. I want to talk about what is, in fact, the abuse of modern means of communication in information technologies, not as something that this law can see at this point, but as something that this law had to see, because we have experience from abuse. We need you to, at least in the presentation, Ms Matic, tell us if you have the consent of all the other authorities to help us solve the abuses of this law at instances called the Court and to result in an effect called justice? So, an electronic document, an electronic signature, software and hardware, keyboards, mice, all of this serves, so it's a means for a man to make a purchase, to perform a service, not to be deceived, to not cheat on others, and ultimately to result in some decent, comfortable and satisfied life of every individual, and thus society. This is an undeniable goal. One can see from the law and himself as a proponent what this law is for, but not seeing it does not mean that it is in reality. I want to remind myself of what everyone is happy to forget, which is how in the sale of shares of the National Savings Bank to the Greek EFG, not cyber crime, but the misuse of information technologies and modern means of trade in actions. So there is no point in not talking about the subject, on the contrary, saying that this law has a good intention and that in the part of the explanation I can support that the electronic document, as such, does not even have to have a signature, because a large number of documents that already serve us in business, even in court processes, in proving some abuses, are without a signature – SMS message, accounts that are issued on the computer, they do not have signatures, correspondence between co-workers at work, in electronic trade, too, there is no signature, but it is a valid document. What I want to point out is that, regardless of what you've defined here, the process of using that time stamp is still possible for abuse to happen, to identify this abuse, to condemn the person who has committed this abuse, but in an inappropriate way to condemn and to improve the authors of the event and to largely continue to regulate our fate today. It's about three names. I do not have to apologize to anyone for mentioning the name of broker Ana Lukic, her director Slavko Caric, who was then the director of "Sinerji Capital", who today is the president of the "Este Bank" Executive Board, and the case of the National Savings Bank, which he views as a credit, and I believe that one day, because there is no perfect crime, Mr Dinkic, author of this idea, will answer, but not only him, but also those who have allowed him to own the state under 50% and that some action by the National Savings Bank, which he bought at the price of 150,000 dinars, thanks to the use of IT, will sell to the Greek bank at the cost of 670,000 dinars for action. When I say – they will answer, it will not concern the Greek banks, it guarantees the security of the role of foreign investors. They bought the stock at a regular price. To skip the detail of how the National Savings Bank was formed, I'll do it later, if time allows. I'll say that on April 1st, the National Savings Bank's stock market has come at 120,000 dinars per share. The way trade was a Pi-Ci method, it's a predominant price. I'm saying this because there are other ways. What is a Pi-Si method? Every broker is connected online to the stock market, has an I.D. and is trading out of his office. In the morning, at nine o'clock, purchase orders are being entered for that day. You could, for example, type in, as a single broker, 150,000 dinars for the National Savings Bank, if you're going to, say brokers, to "be" at that price. The first person to enter has priority over the others at the same price. Whoever offers the most – buys the first. Then the rest followed, in the volume and at the price at which they were called. You can also enter that PC price, which means you're buying at the price that's being achieved that day. The risk is that someone offers several actions at the height of the allowed fluctuation, plus - minus 20% a day, and it turns out they bought too expensive that day. Every day at 11:55 p.m., so-called. Black out, which lasts five minutes. In this period you can only see the maximum and minimum warrant and you can't see that so-called. the depth of the order, so there is an opportunity to make a correction of the offer. So the technical system is designed not to be abused. What's going on? Under these conditions, someone might even fill out a PC account, but to avoid abuse, if you give that PC account first at nine o'clock, you're sure to buy it. Now, the brokerage house of Sinerji Capital, then owned by Nikola Zivanovic, the one who started the bankruptcy, the liquidation of the Belgrade Bank and one of the key ones, the red thread that ran through all the time in this called the National Savings Bank's perfect robbery, and was a time-consuming vice governor with Mr Dinkic, who he declared to be, in fact, not familiar with, was a corporate agent of the National. The typing order I'm talking about, and at a predominant price, it takes some time. Even if you prepare part of the warrant in advance, typing orders still requires a time to enter data for that day. There are those who are skilled and fast and can insert the data in seven to eight seconds. I stress all of this, because it's important time, that priority should be given to those who type first at nine in the morning, because it's all registered in that so-called. Export the stock market, first of all, time, and exactly in a second. Turns out, I'd like your attention, that Singerji gave that PC order in the morning to buy at any price and anything that came up and managed to get a warrant for the amazing, fantastic 1.7 seconds. It is science fiction, and later it was found that special software was applied to stop time. The mark of time, whether it allows for this kind of abuse of time stopping on your computer, because it turns out that all the warrants are given in nine hours in 1.7 seconds. By applying this method, it turns out that a few of the first days of trade in April never anyone but Synergia, so it lasted, failed to buy the National Savings Bank. Since the investigation started, I'm saying, there's no perfect robbery, no Synergia broker, but also the director, they've confessed to what they've been doing. To the great surprise of all, the Securities Commission, which has the mandate to impose fines, did not close the house "Sinerji", but only punished broker Ana Lukic (I assume that this cost of her year of suspension and reluctantly included in the price of the income of those who imagined this because it was done through her card, and we do not know if she worked), with a ban on doing the job until one year. The director, Slavko Caric, who has otherwise confessed, is not punished at all, and according to Ana Lukic, in important accounts and in important cases, the director assists. The proof of assistance and the entry of a warrant is even explained in detail. On the Exchange site you can find this solution that I will show you in detail, that he could type, press two keys and help achieve this fantastic speed, but it turned out to be unproven, or impossible, and that it was an abuse. This gentleman who confessed is not punished and you have the opportunity to see him as the chairman of the Erste Bank Executive Board. It is interesting that the similar abuse of the "Senzal" brokerage house was punished, I think it was two months of labour ban, due to similar treatment with "Knjiza Milos", not the same method, but the failure to work, and "Ilirik" at six months, due to the case of "Toza Markovic" from Kikinda. Otherwise, what I want to point out is, I am saying carefully and precisely to enter the record and the stenogram, in Western Europe, in Europe whose member we want to be by criteria, not by geographical origin, for these kind of missing prisons for many years, goes to prison, takes away the bankruptcy property, and in that America, where control mechanisms and regulatory bodies have failed, this case could not have happened. But, like everything else, that's how this is applied selectively. I remind you that he was then, and today, the president of the commission who was so inadmissible with a fine punished by a broker, and not a house, not a director, Mr. Milko Stimac, also, when G17. All the time the stories about the development of the financial market of capital, the unreasonable discounts in regulation, that we are developing investment funds, that we ban them all, so that the connected persons can best use the market and the renaissance of investment funds, in which the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic, even says that he does not understand the difference between savings and investors in investment funds, wanting to promote the financial market, we are destroying the reputations of the financial market and the state by not punishing cases like this. For those of you who haven't had a chance to hear our conversation, because it was broadcast somewhere in half four nights, I will repeat that no word of defense for such looser regulation for the investment funds Mr. Djelic did not have, but he said it was a savings. It has been warned that these are investors in funds that, wanting to go to the risk of 30% of earnings, have to bear the risk of loss, but that as a society, we should not promote this kind of financial market in such an inappropriate way, as we did with the Investment Funds Bill, but that we should promote the savings for which banks receive licences from the National Bank, are subject to control and security and investment of citizens, where interest rates are significantly lower, but should be low enough to, as the entry price of the cost of the savings that is given to this economy and to this state, and not that the business banks and the savings they collect from the trading of securities and rep operations with the National Bank, or the State, because it is the safest. In the end, whoever bought the shares at 120 and 150,000 dinars sold them to the EFG at 670,000 for action. How many individuals, the authors of the project, and the other private ones, have earned in the National Savings Project, there are precise data, but there is also what you want to forget – that the National Savings Centre was created in liquidated banks, in the space of the late SDK, which had the most extensive network and in which, therefore, the value of this action was not achieved because Nikola Zivanovic led it, I don't know who, but because she got to do an exclusive job paying off old foreign currency savings, a secure job, which was claimed to be not to be done by anyone, and we have information from the directors who claim that they didn't even get a request from the bank director, and they were willing to take over and do this job. So, this is not what anyone has made possible by their genius, I warn them, not by their own investment in knowledge, innovation, nor by its lucky star, but by the abuse of the assets of liquidated banks, the need to restore citizens' trust at the expense of old foreign exchange savings, which is paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, from the privatisation in which many small shareholders and many citizens are damaged, and using modern technology resources. For you and all citizens, I will say that on the Berza site they can look at a solution that suspends Ana Lukić for a year, which accurately determines how to abuse the software system of stopping time, where even as a proof process used and the equipment, to prove that it is technological crime, which is not adequately punished. I'm not saying that in this law of yours you need to weigh the penalty, but when you propose this law, we make all the laws, and the government proposes almost everything, there should be a coordination of laws, bodies and institutions that will properly punish this and will never allow anything like this to happen again, to make one, a few dollars, and we all lose. We will vote, normally, against, not because of the content itself and the solutions in the law, but because of what I told you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22114	The word is issued by MP Miroslav Petkovic, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22115	Thank you. Dear Presidency, Honorable Mrs Matic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when we do not already have the law on trade, which should regulate the conditions and functioning of the market in Serbia, let's at least try to regulate the area of electronic trade in a valid way. Certainly Serbia needs this law, and all the laws that regulate electronic trade in Serbia, because it is an area in which we can make much progress in a very short time, with very little investment, I cannot say insignificant, but these investments are much lower than some other areas, and that at least at this point, 30% of the people who use computers in Serbia, which are 75% daily on the Internet, get a tool that can make their work more efficient and make some of the benefits of all this being brought into the National Assembly. Laws governing this area should be such that they have a positive impact on market development and trade is through information and communication technologies. In this direction, we passed the Law on Electronic Signature a few years ago, and the Law on Electronic Trade was recently passed. I remind you, since your colleague Milosavljevic was, as an authorised representative, the legislator of this law in Parliament, that we then made a series of criticisms, which you have partially covered by this electronic document law. We felt that these two laws should be in the package and that only then can we take a comprehensive view of all their advantages and weaknesses, but from talking to your associates, with your assistant, we got the impression that some of the remarks from that debate on electronic trade were adopted and entered into this law. Now the area of electronic trade is defined in a much better way. What we believe to be one of the major problems in this area is the problem of unwanted email, the area of'spam', which is one of the biggest problems in the world and I fear it will take a lot of time and a lot of effort to settle this area in a valid way. According to some estimates, 90% of e-mails belong to this category of unwanted e-mails. For this reason, I think it is necessary to foresee, first of all, technical solutions that could remove this kind of communication and, in every way possible, that all participants in this protection process should not come into the position that they must exercise their right before the courts. Also, questions of exteriority, data storage with the provider, the formation of the so-called blacklists, should be arranged as soon as possible, but you can, I suppose, do that by sublegal acts and thus, also, contribute to making this work in a valid and quality way. Most types of communication via the Internet, whether it's an e-mail or a web within its protocols and standards, has no reliable way of determining the time when a specific operation or transaction took place. In a very short time, sometimes in one second, millions of such transactions can be processed, and millions of such transactions should certainly be taken into account. Our idea was that it was necessary to provide a service of an independent authority, a provider, by the reputation of the countries in the environment and the countries of the European Union, where the post office does it. We have also proposed a body that, in a very short time, with technique and a branched network that has in Serbia, can deal with this business. We believe that without that, indeed, this will not be applied unless it provides indemnity and guarantees the accuracy of the data that a specific transaction or operation took place at a certain point. That's what we said in our amendments. You predicted in this law the publisher of the time stamp. It is certainly necessary to sort it out in a serious way, about all the deadlines they have to comply with, because this is a new area, in which we are just entering and winning this way of trade, so that people don't come into a position that they have to suffer later because of people who are irresponsible and who, in a desire for easy profit, have joined the issue of a time stamp without permission. You predicted it in one of the members of this law. It is good that it foresees the formation of a time stamp, which provides for the structure of the publication of time stamp data, and I am sure that in this way one part of the problem will be removed. We think the deadlines in the law are too long. We think it can be done within six months, if we want this to live as soon as possible. I think a three-month period is quite enough. Also, your assistant told us that the wish of the ministry and the people who need to do this job is to do it within this time limit, so I don't think it's too burning to consider the DSS amendments and accept them, all in order to make the entire system work as quickly as possible. The fact is, the e-signature bill didn't come into practice the way we all expected it to be. So far, as far as I know, only one institution has been authorized to issue electronic certificates. The number of electronic certificates is almost negligible if it moves around the number of thousands, but the price of the package is not negligible and that one package costs, as far as I know, about 6,500 dinars. Given that only one body is authorized to issue certificates, I fear it will not be brought into a monopoly position to decide when, to whom and at what cost, this certificate will be issued. I'd like to hear from you whether the correct information is that these certificates are purchased from one side of the company. Why is that, if it's true, and how can that problem be overcome? Also, what this law does not regulate, and it also points to the paths to which the area of telephone commerce should take place, is that a large part of the matter is in some other laws, in the Law on Archival Construction, if I am not mistaken, from 1998, in the Law on Office Business, so that it is necessary that, as soon as possible, the proposals of law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which would in a comprehensive way regulate this matter, from the very beginning of the people who enter this business, be fully sure of the rules of the game, and not that they are going to have huge problems after some time and that in administrative and judicial proceedings, they will be put in a position to protect their right. If an eBay can work so well in one Germany, if there is more than 100 billion dollars in the world of e-commerce and these techniques and technologies, let's try to bring it back to life in Serbia as soon as possible. I think, first of all, young people, business people, small and medium-sized enterprises and all those people from whom, practically, this country lives, who fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, should get tools and the ability to do their job in a quality and simple way. For this reason, I call on you to regulate this entire area through laws, so that there are no unknowns, to look at the experiences of the countries in the environment, although in the environment it has not been brought to life in all countries, but at least in some European countries, of which we can use good practice, make a comparative analysis of their solutions and apply it in Serbia, so that it is indeed to the satisfaction of all Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22116	Does the president of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group want the word or an authorised representative? (No) Do the People's MP Vladan Jeremic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, want the word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today, in the assembly procedure, the draft law on an electronic document is one of the laws that should regulate an area that, by its definition and character, in a period that is ahead of us, should be very much regulated by electronic trade, i.e. overall business. For those who may be superficial knowers of opportunities in Serbia, it is clear that they will have an excuse, or reason to pass one of these laws. However, it is clear that this area is not yet properly regulated regardless of what some laws already exist, and it is evident that some legal solutions will still have to be passed. I would like to remind you of the fact that Serbia passed the Law on Electronic Signature in 2004, and it is then stated that this has started the process of some legal framework that is necessary for the development of electronic business in our country. For the reasons presented by the minister, it is clear that there are problems, as one sentence says that the adoption of the law we are talking about, the electronic document law, will allow for a more consistent application of the Law on Electronic Signature. The wording itself clearly points to what is, otherwise, the principled hatred of the SRS parliamentary group, which is the fact that as much as there is a smaller or greater need for certain laws, the problem arises later, by not applying them in practice. Based on what we have, this law, in our opinion, could experience the same fate. I said that this law, as far as citizens, businesses, state administrations and local self-government are concerned, but only in the case of true application could it allow progress and savings in this regard. However, when any law is passed, especially from an area that is not yet legally rounded, as is the current draft law, so some unknown matter for legal circles, it is clear that it is necessary to fully define the environment in which this law is adopted. It is also necessary to connect with other laws with which it is related. When it comes to the draft law on an electronic document, what we point out as a general remark, it is evident that it is necessary to adopt a series of sublegal acts, in the form of regulations or regulations, to clarify certain parts of that law. The SRS parliamentary group proposed about 15 amendments in these 25 members of the law, because our wish was to essentially and from a professional point of view, help to regulate this law properly. All together, as stated in the law, there is the impression that the law on the electronic document was written exclusively for the needs of the electronic government, probably in that sense, in terms of marketing, the first session yesterday, while the provisions concerning, above all, the use of electronic documents relating to economic operators in this law are not defined in quality. In particular, we point out that, practically, the definition, or regulation of what needs to be done with archives, so, paper documents, is completely omitted, in which way they are transferred into electronic form. It is also unclear in the proposed legislative solution whether all those working on digitising the old archives are excluded. In the process of transferring the digital document, when translated into paper form, it is again reported that only someone from the administration has the right to verify that document and thus declare it all-important, while in other countries...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22118	People's MP, with an apology, do you allow me to interrupt, just for the sake of greetings of those present at the gallery? (Yes) This time won't count. You're welcome. Thank you. I would like to inform the MPs that they are visiting Serbia and attending the National Assembly Gallery Ambassador Mr Theodoros Pasas, director of the diplomatic cabinet of the President of the Republic of Greece, accompanied by Mr Dimostenis Stoidis, the ambassador of Greece to Belgrade. (The president welcomes the guests present in Greek. Welcome to the National Assembly! I thank the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22119	So, in the process of transferring the digital document, when it translates it into paper form, it again appears that the right is only for someone from the administration to verify the same document and thus declare it effective, while in other countries, for example, there are notaries, which as authorised persons can verify the documents. There are several terms in the proposed law that the SRS disagreed with and, in this respect, there are also a number of amendments. First of all, the term of long-term preservation is unclear, because it does not specify what form of storage is applied; it is necessary to define in some sublegal act where and for what it is used for. Also, when it comes to the time stamp, we think we should make more precise provisions on its use, so where, when, in what way, etc. What is very important is that, when defining an electronic document, all the conditions under which the electronic document is legally equivalent to the paper document are defined. Because when an electronic document is defined and it is possible to use it, it is logical to define the conditions under which these documents can be kept in digital, electronic form, or archived. In this respect, it is necessary to define in the right and precise manner the procedures for the archiving of electronic documents, as well as the procedures for ensuring the indisputable existence of a particular document at a given time. In order to realise these conditions, it is necessary to define and implement the system of time stamps, so-called time stamps. Times timing. I mentioned that the position of the SRS is that, in addition to the Law on Electronic Signature, which was adopted five years ago and which in practice is not applicable in the way in which, in addition to the Law on the Electronic Document, several other legislative proposals should be required for this area to become a cell. Here, first of all, we are referring to the law on electronic archives, the law on time stamps, and with the Law on electronic trade, it is also necessary to pass the law on electronic commercial business. Only by adopting all these laws would there be conditions for the rapid, i.e. sound development of real systems of electronic administrations, electronic trade and document and content management systems. The problem that is now evident is the fact that the paper archive is still not archived in digital electronic form, except for the microfilm. By passing all these laws, that problem would be solved. A little later, I will indicate how much the absence, i.e. the non-application of these laws in the field of electronic business, can spend both time and money without need. Also, the SRS believes that existing file archiving on microfilm should not be excluded from further use, precisely because of its sustainability. What arises as a problem in this law, as well as in the Law on Electronic Trade, which was recently the subject of a congregation debate, is the fact that the Internet has extremely spread the network over the past few years, and the two important problems that arise are – how to ensure complete secrecy, data security, both those who are stored in computer files and those that are transmitted through the network. And this law should pay attention to this problem, because we are witnessing that abuses in this segment can cause certain consequences. It is known that secrecy refers to the right of the individual and the organisation to determine whether, and to what extent, the information they have at their disposal to others, so that data security applies, above all, to their protection against unauthorized detection, destruction or modification. The vast majority of private communication takes place through electronic channels. What was said was that e-mail is easy to capture and scan some relevant data, very easy to do, automatically, undetected. What we can expect in the future is a more developed network of optical cables and much wider use of e-mails and data transmissions in general, whether in text or in any other form. What is a preoccupation is that the entire system works as quickly and efficiently as possible, and today, due to the increased number of users, the increased amount of data on these shared resources, there is a great need for data protection against unauthorized access. We have a general grudge here when it comes to the proposal for a law on an electronic document, because we believe that this area should have been given more attention, since there are also consequences of possible incidents that could arise in a variety of ways, starting with erasure of the entire database, changing parts, etc., copying the database as a whole, unauthorized access to data, and a lot of other things. I'm saying this because we witnessed something that has its consequences, if there are shortcomings, such as a case that has no specific connection to the proposal for an electronic document law, but you know how much controversy has caused the introduction of chipped biometric data, or so on. new ID cards. Something like this should not be allowed to occur in this area, because of this technological vulnerability, because even when it comes to the mentioned case, or the concept of biometrics, there is a major problem with this technological security. The data on Serbian citizens will be stored in a unique database, called "Serbia Memory", which is located in the MUP, and such centralized databases are not the safest solutions for data storage, because, in the event of the killing of computer barriers that protect the system and the base, burglars could have all the information in one place. Breaking this system probably isn't easy, because that information is protected by the most modern software and hardware solutions, but it's generally known that no computer system is entirely safe from a hacker attack. In systems, for example, protecting the Pentagon, nuclear power plants, the Centre and so on, hundreds of millions of dollars are invested annually, and yet hacking in hackers is not rare. The only happiness in all this is that hackers have no intention of doing any major damage, but only to show that the intrusion is possible. On the other hand, an example of Motorola, which has been a technology partner for a long time for many security-information agencies, including the CIA and the U.S. military, and there is also fear of the possible takeover of information. I'll remind you that in 2003, the then interior minister, in front of the government, just after the Motorola Company, ordered equipment for the production of $100 million biometric documents. What is evident and realistic, is that, dangerous or not, the need for electronic documents becomes our reality and, with the consistent application of modified legal solutions, could lead to the modernisation and improvement of some aspects of modern life, while, on the other hand, it is likely to create conditions for certain problems. What is yet to be known about this area is that even 80% of technical information, so far, on paper and microfilm, is that all world companies spend huge resources annually to edit those documents. The information on documentation that can be used as some kind of parameter is that paper documentation is doubled every three years, that one average document is copied 19 times, that approximately a billion copies are made every day, and that half of the workers spend time handling papers, that almost half of the jobs are not done on time. The price of this document editing, through this set of laws, could solve the problem of three to five percent of the documentation lost in companies, i.e., as shown by these data available, 7.5% of the staff member's time is spent looking for lost documents. The general objection to the proposal for an electronic document law is that the law, in the opinion of the SRS Parliamentary Group, would have to be complemented by the full definitions of all basic terms, because this is unknown matter in legal circles. Through the amendments, we tried to regulate a few members of the law in a better way. First of all, it is thought of the provision that the electronic document cannot have a copy in electronic form. Then, as I said in the opening note, too much space was given to the authorities, although we read in the light of the law that both economic operators and local administrations and citizens could have their place in all this. What is a principled objection to the SRS is the fact that several members of the Act of Authorisation, i.e. the possibility of making any decisions and actions, are left at the disposal of the Minister. You know that our position is that the ministry, as a state body, should deal with it, because, with all due respect, ministers are mostly people who are here, above all, as political personnel, and there are few who are in place because of the profession. There's one principle that our country is not sticking to, and that's the principle of open electronic documents, so no electronic document published by the state authorities should be in a format that's not open and readable for everyone. This, unfortunately, is not respected in our country, and Microsoft also extends to a large extent, because on government sites, ministries, government agencies and other institutions it has become common for documents to be published in formats that can only be read by Microsoft programs. So I tried, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, to point out the need to regulate, or define an electronic document with a digital signature, a law that was passed several years ago, but has not been applied, because using a digital signature gives the electronic document the dimension of originality and the law should provide some sort of evidence character in the legal process. The digital or electronic signature is directly related to the owner of the signature and the signed document and it technically ensures the form of the document in the form of binary characters, but does not give a precise definition of the interpretation of the content. The term not covered by the proposed legislative solution is the concept of an electronic document of high quality, which actually contains electronic documents with electronic signature. The SRS considers the proposed law to be acceptable, with great potential for modification. We have not received a reply from the committees responsible, i.e. the Resolute Ministry of Amendments, which we have submitted on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. I said those amendments were made on the basis of a consultation with the profession, etc. I believe that they could contribute to improving the proposed legislative solution, but what was my first sentence, which I will conclude in this part, is the fact that the law, which is needed, will have no value unless, like the e-signature law, it is not after the adoption and adoption of the applicable and in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22120	Thank you, too. The word is held by MP Dejan Radenkovic, authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22121	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, before I begin the debate on this law, I would like to ask the President and the Presidency for something. I have also listened to the remarks of some colleagues that there is no clear principle of work, and I agree with that, and I think it would be good for you to sit down and agree to unify that work, that there is one model by which authorised representatives are called, because until yesterday we had a case to apply ourselves, as anyone is applying, and today I see that the mandated representatives are already called from the smallest to the greatest. Who has the advantage? If we didn't have any disagreements in perspective, I would really ask you to sit down and unify that work, to know what the principle of work is. I'll go back to the electronic document law. The 2004 e-signature law is an exaggerating process for the development of the legal framework when it comes to the need for the development of electronic business in our country. The electronic signature, and in particular the qualified signature, as a means of reliable identification of the parties in an electronic transaction, is one of the most significant segments of the electronic document and has the same legal power as the own signature, i.e. handwritten signature and stamp, in relation to the data in paper form. By adopting this law, we would take a step further in the legal regulation of electronic business, and that is precisely by regulating the issues that are relevant to practice, or the functioning of electronic business in reality. It is obvious that, at the same time, a more consistent application of the Electronic Signature Act will be made possible. Given that our country's information technology and way of doing business is changing very quickly, legislative solutions need to be more flexible and open to new technological achievements, based on solutions contained in international documents, regulations and EU standards, and in particular solutions of technologically developed countries, which already have judgments and disputes in the area mentioned. The law provides that all documents in electronic form, and not only those originally created in electronic form and signed by electronic signature, shall be legally relevant under certain conditions in legal relations. Basically, an electronic document may be any unit of documentary material in electronic form. This gives the law a legal framework for the full equalisation of the classical form of business by means of paper with electronic forms, made, sent, accepted and preserved, but also archived application of information technologies, as well as the possibility of operating without paper. I would especially like to highlight the next key legal solutions. First of all, the electronic document is full and has the power of proof. Then, the electronic document originally created in electronic form is considered to be the original, as well as that the electronic document created by the digitisation of the original document, whose form is not electronic, has legal power as well as the original document, if it meets the prescribed conditions. The main objective of the legislator's proposal is to encourage more mass use of electronic documents in our country by citizens, legal entities and authorities. Using and exchanging electronic documents between these entities would allow a higher level of overall labour efficiency, significant material savings and improving the quality of life of Serbian citizens. The specific objectives of the legislative arrangement are to open a space for more intensive electronic business, to create public confidence in the use and exchange of electronic documents through open telecommunications networks and to achieve competitiveness in world markets. I would point out that the law is equally important for citizens, businesses, state administration, local self-government and other entities, and its application allows for progress both in the international position and in the functioning of our country. When making this law, it was recorded that the negligible number of countries had approached the isolated regulation of this matter, while in most countries the use of electronic documents was governed by laws governing electronic business, electronic signature, electronic trade and the like. I would like to note in particular that the laws on e-correction, i.e. the document, have been brought by Croatia, Montenegro and Republika Srpska from the surrounding countries. The bill that lies before us contains the precise definition of the electronic document, which covers all electronic documents, whether originally created in electronic form or as a result of digitisation. It is clear, of course, that there was also an obligation in front of the promoter, but also the inevitable need to define significant individual concepts used in the law, such as digitisation, time stamp, time stamp publisher and others. It is explicitly stressed that the electronic document is of full importance and that it has the power of proof. It is clear that this applies to each electronic document, except for the document for which the written form has been established as a condition of fullness. The corresponding provision of a member of the law, in that case, shall require that the relevant electronic document be signed by qualified electronic signature. The law provides for three significant solutions regarding the production of electronic documents: an electronic document originally created in electronic form is considered to be the original, an electronic document created by the digitisation of the original document, whose form is not electronic, is considered to be a copy of the original document, and that the electronic document created by digitalisation has the same legal force as the original document, provided that the conditions laid down by law are met. The solutions offered by this law are extremely important for the more massive use and exchange of electronics, instead of paper, documents, and thus to increase the efficiency of work and simplification of procedures, the exercise of rights, obligations and legal interests of parties before authorities. The digitisation of documents, in addition to the reduction, i.e. the elimination of paper, also enables easier search, use and publication of documents, which is particularly relevant for the more effective achievement of citizens' rights to the availability of information of public importance. In this case, you'd avoid losing paper for any reason. The proposal also offered legal solutions concerning the delivery of electronic documents. The confirmation of the receipt of the electronic document is inconclusive proof that the document has been received by the recipient. It may be drawn up in the form of an electronic document and that the obligations of issuing the receipt certificate and the content elements of the certificate are governed by specific regulations or by the will of the parties, unless otherwise provided by law. It is noted that each received electronic document is considered a separate document, with the exception of the same document. That's what the recipient knew, or he could have known. In the interest of eliminating the problem of duplicated electronic documents that know the practices of countries with developed electronic business, the proposal has enabled such legal solutions to overcome them. The way in which electronic documents are delivered between the parties and authorities and in the opposite direction is also regulated by law. The delivery by electronic means, without coming to the counter of the authorities, will contribute to the improvement of the overall relationship between citizens – economy, or administration, and significant material savings. The choice of how to deliver electronic documents will be carried out in the framework of laws and regulations governing office operations, which requires amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act, procedural laws in the field of justice and rules on office operations. In particular, I would like to stress that with regard to the preservation of electronic documents, the law refers to the application of the law governing the electronic signature, the law governing the archive structure and the regulations governing office operations. The e-signature Act stipulates that the electronic document is kept on condition that it is available and available for later use, that it is preserved in form and that it allows the identification of the time and place of origin, or reception, and of the persons who formed it, that it is formed by the application of technologies and procedures which allow for reliable identification of any changes in the electronic document, thereby avoiding abuse. In view of these and other provisions of this law relating to the issuer of the time stamp and the time stamp system, it can be concluded that the basic conditions to be met by the time stamp issuer are: that the legal person, that he owns a time stamp system that has access to the exact time stamp, that the time stamp system as a software-hardver system fulfils the conditions that will be laid down in a sublegal law implementing this law, to ensure that the time stamp contains the prescribed structure by law, that he has an electronic time stamp signing certificate issued by a certification body registered or registered in accordance with the law governing the electronic signature, that he submits a request with the necessary documentation for the registration of the time stamp register and, of course, that, following the verification of the fulfilment of the conditions, he is entered in the register. As regards the time contained in the time stamp, what is important, this law stipulates that that time should correspond to the moment of stamp formation, with a difference of less than one second compared to the UTC time scale, and the time stamp publisher has an obligation to keep the time stamps allocated in a safe manner for at least five years from the day of issue. In the end, I would especially like to say, for the sake of the public, that criminal penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of this law by the issuer of the time stamp and the responsible person are provided. As for the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, we will support and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22122	Thank you. As regards the introductory part, the right to give a word belongs to the chair. The obligations of MPs are regulated by the Rules of Procedure and relate to both the presidents and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Competence requires that he who is authorized be in the O.R. the moment the chairman gives his word. The spirit of the Rules of Procedure also gives rise to a rule from the technical improvement of the work of this Assembly, that the word will be obtained in the future by order of free MPs, who do not belong to any of the parliamentary clubs, according to the most numerous parliamentary group. I think that's what logic obliges us to do in relation to the application of Article 235. Now we've made that clear. I now give the word to the MP Pavel Marchek, who is authorised by the representative of the ZES Group of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22123	Dear President, Madam Minister, representatives of the ministry, honourable fellow Members, I would first use this moment to congratulate the minister and the government in the spirit of this law on the first electronic session, which symbolically took place on the anniversary of this Parliament's work, and I hope that this way of work will reflect on all the other bodies and systems that are in the state administration. As regards the Law on the Electronic Document, it should be said that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97(1) point 12. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides scientific and technological development. I would like to say briefly that this law, although ultimately, is not less important, it may seem small, it has 25 members, as well as all previous laws in this area, is very important for all areas and businesses, and businesses, and for all social activities. It can be said that by adopting the Law on Electronic Signature in 2004, the Republic of Serbia began the process of developing the legal framework necessary for the development of electronic business in our country. The electronic signature, and in particular the qualified electronic signature, as a means of reliably identifying the party in an electronic transaction, is one of the significant segments of the electronic document. In that case, the qualified electronic signature shall have the same legal fact and evidence power as the own-hand signature, i.e. the hand-signature and stamp in relation to the data in paper format. The adoption of this law seems to be the next step within the framework of a set of these laws and continues to be designed to regulate e-commerce, and this is precisely by settling those issues that are relevant for practice, i.e. the functioning of electronic business in reality. This will, at the same time, allow for a more consistent application of the Electronic Signature Act adopted. In order to regulate this area, there have been the following views and definitions – that only what is necessary and only to the extent that it is regulated and operated on paper, that technology allows a lot of things, especially in matters of protection, but if that is not the requirement of paper, it should not be required in the electronic document. It should be said that, for example, a new proof can be taken from a telegram that has no seal and no signature, SMS message, e-mail which is also known to the creator of this document and that the time stamp is not sought where and now no special time confirmation is required for paper documents, given that, in accordance with the regulations on office operations, these documents have the number and date under which they are listed. As information technologies and business methods change very quickly, it should be stressed that these legal solutions need to be flexible, open to new achievements, based on solutions contained in international documents, regulations and EU standards, and in particular on solutions of technologically developed countries, which already have judgments and disputes from the mentioned areas in their practice. It should be said that legal solutions allow all documents in electronic form, not only those originally created in electronic form and signed by electronic signature, to be, under certain conditions, legally relevant in legal relations. Basically, an electronic document may be any unit of documented material in electronic form. This law provides a legal framework for the full equalisation of the classical form of business by means of paper with electronic forms, made, sent, received, preserved or archived use of information technologies, as well as giving the possibility to operate without paper. I'm going to highlight key legal solutions. It is that the electronic document is full and that it has the power of proof. Also, that the electronic document originally created in electronic form is considered to be the original, that the electronic document produced by the digitisation of the original document, whose form is not electronic, has legal power as the original document if it meets the prescribed conditions, that the copy of the electronic document on paper produced in accordance with the law has the evidence of the original or certified copy of that document. It should be stressed that the main objective of legal regulation is to encourage the wider use of electronic documents in our country by citizens, legal entities and authorities. Using and exchanging electronic documents between these entities would contribute to raising the overall efficiency of work, significant material savings and improving the quality of life of citizens. For example, I'm going to use the just mentioned electronic session, where it's likely, on a monthly level, and on an annual basis, I'm going to save tons of paper and tons or hectolitres of toners. It should be pointed out that the specific objectives of legislative regulation are to open up a space for more intensive electronic business, to create public confidence in the use and exchange of electronic documents in an open telecommunications network and to achieve competitiveness in world markets. I would like to stress that this law is equally important for citizens, for the economy, for the state administration, for local self-government and for other entities, and its application allows progress in both international and operational situations. When making this law, it should be said that some countries have a solution like us, but it does not prevent us from being on the side of a small number of countries that have this way. Generally, in most countries, the use of electronic documents is governed by laws governing electronic operations, electronic signatures, electronic trade and the like. I would just like to praise that this is a special law and that it is no problem that we have solved it in another way, because a lot of countries have done it this way – that the e-correction law, or document, is treated as a special law. We have examples in Croatia, Montenegro, Republika Srpska. A lot has already been said here, I might still point out that here is a prescribed way of delivering electronic documents between parties and authorities, and in the opposite direction. The delivery by electronic means, without coming to the counter of the authorities, will certainly improve relations on the relation of citizens – the economy and administration and bring significant material savings. Article 11 provides for the delivery of electronic documents between authorities, means, by electronic means, by e-mail, via web and the like. It will also increase efficiency and speed up and simplify the work of the managing authority, and in particular it should be stressed that the exchange of documents necessary for the exercise of the rights and obligations of parties in proceedings before the authorities will be improved. The way in which electronic documents are delivered will be conducted in a scale with the law and regulations governing office operations, which requires amendments to certain laws, such as the General Administrative Procedure Act, procedural laws in the field of justice and regulations on office operations. This law, with regard to the protection of electronic documents, points to the application of laws governing archival construction, office business rules and international standards in the field of document management. That's a lot of time stamps. I would like to emphasise that there is also a system for the formation of a time stamp, a requirement for the formation of a time stamp, the content and structure of the time stamp data, the time contained in the time stamp and the storage of the time stamp. In view of this, these provisions in the electronic document law refer to the issuer of the time stamp and the time stamp system, where it can be said that the prescribed conditions to be met by the time stamp issuer – must be a legal person, that it has a system for the formation of a time stamp that has access to the exact time, a way in which it cannot deviate for more than one second, and that the system for the formation of a time stamp, as a software hardware system, meets the conditions that will be set closer to the sublegal acts and to ensure that the time stamp contains the legally prescribed data structure. It is also prescribed that the issuer holds an electronic time stamp certificate and that it is shown to have been issued by a certification body registered and registered in accordance with the law governing electronic signatures. With regard to the funds needed to implement this law, it should be said that no funds are needed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The adoption of this law will not cause an increase in costs in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Its application is in line with the existing opportunities for the implementation of information and communication technologies and with the Government's definitions for the reform of state administration and the introduction of electronic services for citizens and businesses. I would like to, on behalf of the ZES Parliamentary Group, invite all MPs to support this law because, in the trend of globalisation and the development of new technologies, this law is one of those in the field of electronic business and information technologies and has a major impact on public administration and business. The development of information technologies brings a whole series of changes reflected in everyday work and life and the accelerated technological development is seen as a condition without which it cannot be seen. That's why we have to join that. Industrial economic growth cannot survive without laws like this at the heart of global information events. So once again, I call upon all MPs to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22124	Thank you. We move to debate the MPs according to the application for a word in principle to review the draft law on the electronic document. The word has a folk MP, Mr Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22125	The respected presidency, respected Mrs Matic, respected representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, total value of Serbia's information technology market in 2007 reached around 460m euros. The own capital of IT companies was around 225m euros. In 2008, IT market value rose to 550m euros. The Republic Statistics Institute presented a survey on the subject – the use of information and communication technologies in Serbia for 2008 and the company "I Target" released information on the part of the survey of the server relating to the use of the Internet for electronic shopping purposes in Serbia. Research suggests that over two million people in Serbia use the Internet, around a million and 250,000 users are on the Internet in Serbia every day, that 7% of Serbian citizens buy online, that around 137m euros in electronic trade traffic in Serbia, and that the projection of the volume of electronic trade in 2010 is around 346m euros; 60.4% of Internet users are looking for information on goods and services via the Internet, 25% of Internet users read blogs, and 7.2% of them create or maintain them. Analyzing this data, we come to the conclusion that the information technology sector in Serbia must be seen as a sector of development opportunities, a sector where there are no unemployed and where profits are at an enviable level. In 2001, the European Union, in Lisbon, defined its strategy on the development of an information society, in order to preserve the economic level of development and allow Member States to grow further. In 2003, the EU Council of Ministers adopted an action plan – Electronic Europe 2005, aimed at providing modern public electronic services and a favourable environment for the development of electronic business. Serbia, as a member of the Electronic Southeast Europe Initiative, signed an agenda for the development of the information society as early as 2002. This document stipulates that Serbia, as a signator, must adopt a policy and strategy on the development of an information society, adopt and implement legal infrastructure, which means the adoption of several laws on telecommunications, the e-signature law, the e-business law, the law on crime on the Internet, the law on the protection of intellectual property, as well as the law on the electronic document, which is on the agenda today. By passing this law, the area of electronic business is legally regulated, primarily those issues that are relevant to practice, i.e. functioning in reality. At the same time, it will make it easier to apply already passed laws in this area. I mean, the e-signature bill, and the e-commerce bill. Given that the area of information technologies is subject to rapid changes, solutions in this law are seen to be flexible and open to new technological achievements. This law unequivocally allows all documents in electronic form, not only of those originally produced in electronic form, to be referred to documents which, by means of a digitalisation process, are translated from paper form into electronic form and signed by electronic signature, to be relevant in legal relations. This gives the law a legal framework for the full equalisation of the classical form of business by electronic paper. The draft law lays down provisions on the time stamp, which is necessary in order to comply with the Administrative Procedure Act and the Office Business Regulation, because of the need for information on the time of dispatch and the availability of the electronic document. What is business in modern conditions and what is the impact of the electronic document is best shown by the fact that one expert spends 30% of their working time only in finding documents and different data. In continuous work with documentation, 9% of all documents are lost and the document is copied over ten times. According to some analyses, the production and maintenance of new documents is about 15% of the company's total costs. All of this is in support of the fact that in the time that comes, in the process of modern business, paper documentation increasingly places a place for electronic documents. The time to search and find the necessary document in electronic form is incomparably shorter than in the physical archive. Modern successful businesses are located in good and expensive locations. Electronic archives are next to them, and physical, massive archives are located outside the city, in cheap locations. When we talk about the future of electronic business in Serbia, we need to know whether the primary conditions for the development of this kind of business are met. By passing this law, as well as legal solutions from this area earlier, necessary starting points have been adopted. The results of the implementation of the Electronic Signature Act are evident. Also, the development of e-commerce will certainly contribute to the announcement that in the next period, the authorisation to issue an electronic signature will also be granted to the IPO and will issue the signature as part of a new ID card. The reduction of VAT from 18% to 8% in the purchase of computers allowed a wider range of users to make their IT equipment available, which is another condition for developing this type of business. In 2008, the number of Internet access connections increased by 300,000 thanks to the development of a third-generation mobile internet. In order to create an electronic business framework, it is necessary to provide broadband Internet, which will facilitate electronic business, while electronic business will create electronic content that will stimulate broadband requirements. It is encouraging that the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society is taking concrete steps to ensure a better quality Internet. Also, every day there are increasing opportunities for Internet payments. Most banks today issue cards that can be paid on the Internet. It should be expected that, following the adoption and application of this law, most of the areas of daily administrative use, citizens and entrepreneurs and administration bodies can be solved through electronic business, by introducing various electronic services. One of the positive examples is the introduction of a one-stop shop system for company registration, which will allow the company to register in one place for a very short time. This is made possible by electronic means of the Agency for Business Registers, Tax Administrations, the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the PIO Fund. That the adoption of this law will not remain a dead letter on paper and that electronic business in Serbia is just ahead of development, says the first electronic session of the government was held yesterday. Unlike the government's electronic session, holding a paper session costs citizens of Serbia about 60 million a year. It looks forward to announcement by Minister Jasna Matic that the legislative and judicial authorities can soon be expected to get this opportunity. In the end, I must remind you that investment in information technology is not a cost, but an investment that returns very quickly. Finally, to say that the G17 Group will support this law in the voting day, because it considers it very important for the development of e-business and opens up the possibility of hiring a large number of unemployed and educated young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22126	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22127	Thank you. As promised, I will continue my presentation on the law on the electronic document, in the case of the National Savings Bank, prove the need for such a law to exist, but not to be a dead letter on paper, which in application has no possibility of proving the need to exist, by achieving its goal. All modern means of communication in information technologies, in any industry, come down to some traditional service. So, the car as a car has the purpose of being invented, which is perfected, and the service is traditionally one and the same, so that a man can drive from one place to another, go visit his parents, do shopping, and take his child to kindergarten. None of these laws that you pass have the purpose to praise any of the ministers in the first 100 days of the government and to say - I have passed five laws, but in practical application this and any law resulting in not abuse of some public means, but in preventing the abuse of public funds, even though it was not done in the case of the National Savings Bank, but rather on the contrary. I was saying that in 2005, in May, June, the Belgrade Stock Exchange of Technology Achievements, using software called "stopping time", when individuals acquired action at the price of 120 to 150 000 managed to sell to Greece at the price of 670,000 dinars per share. To repeat, the Greek bank did not buy someone else's and its safety is undeniable. The Greek bank paid dearly, and some call it their skill, and we, responsible citizens and representatives of citizens, will not stop pointing out the way it happened. Although this transaction was carried out in 2005, for which the Charter Commission of Values found it illegal and imposed too mild a penalty, which is not appropriate to the weight of the work, the aim of promoting the financial market, the fight against corruption, absolutely nothing, except that it is appropriate to preserve the interests of associates and friends who have become rich in this business, and by using the modern means of information technologies, I wonder how could you in Article 4, as a completely new formulation, write – the electronic document cannot be challenged by the fullness or evidence power simply because it is in electronic form? Here, from that solution I read to you, brought by the Belgrade Stock Exchange on 2 August 2005, it is said that the Commission did not accept the defences that disputed the attached evidence, an electronic record of the recorded record, in terms of reading the time on the screen, accepting the explanation in the additional document submitted. So, already in 2005, what was the achievement of this law was applied, it was not disputed that the electronic record was evidence, so it turns out that now such evidence is, in collaboration with other bodies representing the same state, perhaps another party, the problem, so it's this discrepancy that bothers us that we are not perfect, but decent as a state and that we are preventing negative phenomena. I would like to say that the defendant, later and proven guilty of the abuse of the software system, Ana Lukic and Mr Slavko Caric, stated that as members of the Stock Exchange and she as a broker, they felt that the evidence provided at the request, the video, could not be evidence of any abuse, because it can only be seen that, after the possibility of entering the warrant, at exactly 9 o'clock, when trading starts, the time blocked and automatically transferred to 9.05. Also, in a written statement, where the gentlemen remained in the same statement, he claims that no other means were used to prove their guilt. However, it has been established that, regardless of the time of the suspended time data, it is, in fact, different from the other electronic records of other tasks taken as a sample and delivered as evidence, to stop the entry time of the order, the electronic record on which the entry of the order was recorded. Other individual tasks clearly show that further orders have been entered consistently, and when time stopped, all the orders entered at the same time have been recorded. It has been shown, in this process of proving the guilt of the Lord, that during the introduction of the order, the means have been used, that is why I am telling you about a specific case, which illustrates the imperfection of not only this law and the application of these technologies, but also the lack of the desire of the authorities to and when there is adequate punishment for the guilty, because this punishment is the best instrument of preservation since future violations of law and abuse. During the entry of that order, a means was used to store information about the elements of the warrant, that – the day of entry, the price, etc., at the same time loaded into that Beleks system, and also appeared as all orders were given at once, so that it was found, when carrying out the evidence for this case, that, when the elements were entered, the continuous entry of the tasks by the fields to be entered was not actually recorded. Finally, it was found that it was really impossible for these orders to be entered within a time period of 1.7 seconds, which was proven during the verification and proof process, even bringing keyboards, mice and tracking the speed of movement of the broker Ana Lukić who did so, and it was obvious that the type of warrant had not changed on the screen, because it was selected in black when a purchase warrant was given, and when the value of the purchase warrant was approved, it was blue. The distinction between red and blue is not a matter of a daltonist entering orders, but a matter of law, which must be respected. The insolence to do something like this, which was established on 2 September 2005 and still stands a detailed display on the basis of which the order is obviously being challenged, requires that the following question be asked – how many such and similar warrants are undiscovered? How many authors of such and similar actions in the stock market came to change this Serbia in 2000, and many of them are stockbrokers, the first Mr. Nikola Zivanovic, who is the red thread that has been passing since the moment of the decision to liquidate four large banks, until the moment you claim it – finally, and I argue – is a temporarily closed story about the robbery of the century, which is not perfect, and it is called the National Savings Office. For example, we had another stock exchange expert, Nik Giovanni, who ended up as a cinema buyer in Belgrade, but who had this kind of transaction and his knowledge picked up on foreign exchanges very warmly on the use of his G17 friends, who still kept the main word in everything he was selling, reselling, saving money, sharing money from subsidies, and back to the Treasury, to holding funds from privatisation and to the agency that accepted prospectuses on sales, in which thousands of squares of business space could not be displayed. The "Comgrap" is current, four thousand square meters of business space in Belgrade, as if a soap balloon from the financial market, not a solid material building, is not visible. The Privatisation Prospects were accepted by the agency, in which, within these and such experts, they could be lost, sealed and seen by unauthorized persons, to hide part of the property, to ‘tunulate’ the value of the company, as it is said in the circles that are close to you, and that no one is responsible, because these and such laws contained the provision that for the truthfulness of the allegations submitted in the application the applicant corresponds. You're trying to get one of these formulations into the State Aid Control Act today, and each of us has to, when a child is on a field trip, regardless of what obligations he has, whether he's sick, go to the city administration counter or the court confirms a signature guaranteeing that he's carrying costs as an employee for his child's travel abroad. We have to prove the authenticity of our parenthood by signing, working book and financial means, when our child goes on a field trip, and those who are state and social property, still exist, hiding, reselling, are not obliged to provide you with proof that the authorized persons to represent are elected to the regulatory authorities and are not obliged to document it with certified copies of the documents, if they are large, because you are not asking them to do so and because no such sentence in the law is random, but fully deliberately written, to lose direct contact with responsibility, that the man who allowed it and who received such an unquality document can tomorrow justify that the legality, foundation and accuracy of the data corresponded to the one who submitted the document. Is he abroad today, on some islands, like. We do not know what part of the world Mrs Vesna Djindjic is in, for which reasons she resigned from abroad, these are the questions I do not want to insinuate, nor should they remain the subject of only these discussions, but here the debate is being initiated, and the finalisation of the issues I ask in this way must be in court and in the competent authorities. You also have such a formulation in the Public Procurement Act, where Public procurement, the authority responsible for implementation, gives you consent to a shortcut, or to a shorter procedure, but says nicely – you are responsible for the accuracy of the allegations. What will the authority that needs to tell us – can or can't, and then say – you answer, and there are buildings, employees, travel budget costs, training, official vehicle, software programs, computer equipment and everything else that belongs, as well as one of the 105 agencies, which were 102, three of which we established by law adopted a few weeks ago?- I'm sorry. Is this the principle of functioning in which, Mr. Novakovic, you say the right to the replica, in the application of the Rules of Procedure – I estimate that it does not belong to you, and behind that they get away with the words – I do not ask myself? They can't be shaped like that, not even the Rules of Procedure. He can't write the registration order, as a colleague says, not to say whether he's electronic, so you see him or not, or he's on a written form that you prescribed, or we write him, because that and that formulation is not just, but it is a reflection of the surface. It is a reflection of the intention that where there is no precise instruction, there is an interpretation of one who decides to appear, that a rule or instruction will be influenced by interested groups, who, in order to come to you, will use shortcuts and skip obstacles, using known shortcuts called corruption, which we as a society must avoid by precise and clear formulation and by accepting good intentions from us which we make objections to such laws. You can't block yourself the moment we tell you that the law formulation isn't good enough. You see it as a blow to your personal integrity, because you've identified yourself with the government and the state, and you say, my ministry, my law. I don't mean you, ma'am, personally, at all, in principle to all ministers. They say my law, my ministry. When you give them an objection to the law, it's like you hit on a person, on private property, on a pet, on a house. It's not a responsible attitude towards citizens. It's a kind of inadmissible self-love, where you don't hear the well-intentioned remark of the one who's on the side of the opposition today, and you're on the side of the government, but there's nothing forever and there's nothing to be left open to the objections that we're changing laws, which are in the interest of all citizens, whom we owe no good intentions, no good wishes, but we owe them good laws, their application in practice, we owe them to punish the guilty who violate the laws. In that sense, we expect you to make this law not to be what you will boast, that you have passed one of the laws, where in 2009 you formulate what is defined and punished, but not enough, but in 2005, but to count that there are those in this society who do not yet know enough about information technologies, but they will learn, but also that there are those who know how to read these decisions and these kinds of machinations that I'm talking about when it comes to the National Savings Office. Above all, to know that there are us who will point to these phenomena. If Mr Djelic forgot that he was opposed to turning a state house, which was called the National Savings Bank, into a private one, because the mutual and mutual benefit of what connects people, regardless of where the parties of the ZES, yesterday DOS, are found, that is not enough reason for us to remain silent. On the contrary, the reason is that we no longer allow you to pass such laws, which are not good enough, continue to do what is not good, but to hear objections and make sure that the Government works as a team, because the government is one organism and the perfect law is of no value to you if we do not have a judiciary that, when it is broken, will be able to translate this law into justice for the citizens. I ask you to see behind these laws the living people to whom this law applies and to see honest, well-intentioned MPs, who help you to be even better in the interests of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22128	Thank you. I hope you're not asking me for an explanation about the right to give a word. Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22129	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today before us the law on an electronic document and it is another law that is one step further towards rounding the entire set of laws that we can call the set of e-commerce laws. It is necessary to adopt the information security law by the end of the year, and then we will have the opportunity to extend the application of electronic administrations and electronic documents in the daily life of Serbian citizens. What is achieved by this law is the legal formation and equalisation of the paper and electronic document, which is particularly important in the authorities of the administration, in the day-to-day business of the company. Yesterday we had the first electronic session of the Serbian government and I hope to have the first electronic session of this Parliament as well. It is significant that the application of this law is accelerated and that it does not wait for application as a Digital Signature Act. I remind you it was brought in in 2004, and only last year was the first digital signature issued. Legal equality of documents in digital form, electronic form, and in paper format in front of state authorities, judicial authorities. There are authorized organs that can and can copy, copying can only be done in paper form, the digital format of the copy does not exist. The inner form, the set of bits, the outer form, which can be a copy, is a visual and other recognizable form. As for the fear of possible abuses, I would like to remind you that technology has advanced, that information technologies are progressing in the exponential curve and that there are far greater opportunities for abuses in the case of paper rather than a digital document, of course, if all security measures are applied and all standards applicable to the security of information are applied. What I especially want to praise about this law is that the public debate accepted most suggestions, which were well-intentioned and which improved the quality of the law. I also want to commend the part about standards and formats. Therefore, the formats defined by standards are allowed to be applied, allowing applications of commercial applications to be used when using electronic documents and open soft applications to be used. With this law, we move a step further towards the development of electronic administration, as a means of facilitating the work of citizens, where citizens will be able, if appropriate, to receive all documents at their home, from the chair, not to leave their apartment and get everything they need from the state administration. How much companies will recognize the chance to make their business easier, it depends on them, depending on the investments they will make to improve their technologies. What the EU forecasts are is that by applying electronic documents only in one sector, therefore, in municipal activities, only accounts in electronic form will save about 15 billion euros on an annual basis. This law gives us many more possibilities. This is a branch that is perspective, a whole branch of industry and services and, let me say, trade, which can be a branch of development and can make big investments and new employment possible for citizens of Serbia. Finally, I would like to say that this law is in line with EU directives and with the UN Convention on Electronic Documents and DS MPs will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22130	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22131	The Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the honourable Members of Parliament, is another law on the electronic document that should allow the implementation of the strategy of the electronic administration, i.e. e-government, after the laws on electronic signatures have been passed, i.e. on electronic trade. However, as these laws are compatible, it would logically be expected to be brought in synchronised and that we do not have this kind of time gap between the adoption of these laws. Namely, the Law on Electronic Signature was passed in 2004, the Law on Electronic Trade, at the last session of the Assembly, and now we have the law on the electronic document, and the bill itself says that the sublaw, which will enable the implementation of this law, will be passed in six months. What does that mean? This means that this complete strategy of introducing an electronic administration will be drawn up for a few more years. He can't do it without each other. Without the e-document law, we can't enforce the e-commerce law. Without sublegal acts, we can't enforce this law. It was perfectly logical and normal to expect these laws to be either at the same session of the Assembly, or to be in approximate time spaces, and that the sublegal acts would already be prepared so that we could apply the same law, as said in Article 25 - on the eighth day since it was published in the "Official Messenger". So if it is already said that the law will enter into force on the eighth day, then I guess it is logical to expect that it should be applied immediately. Now, we're going to have another six months of vacuum, so we'll probably wait for some more of the laws, like the information security law, so we can fully apply the e-Government strategy. What is important here and what are the main objections to this law? As in previous, the Law on Electronic Trade, and in this law is not a clear enough solution to the problem of unwanted mail. Unwanted mail is something that makes a good part of the total exchange of e-mails, but we don't have clear protection from this unwanted mail, we don't have a elaborate technical solution. It was logical to expect that such a solution would appear in this law. Also, our objection to the previous law – on electronic trade – was that we do not have clear guarantees and confirmations for sending, or receiving certain electronic documents that are very important in communications, especially in the field of electronic trade, because there may be some time request, which you send, does not match the one receiving a certain request, and you do not have an arbitration authority to judge what is valid from those two claims; then there may be various abuses in the sale, i.e. buying goods or services. This law also discusses the archiving of electronic documents. It is said: "The legal and natural persons and authorities are obliged to store and archive electronic documents in the information system or in the media that allow the sustainability of the electronic record for a specified storage time, in accordance with the law governing the archive structure, the law governing the electronic signature and regulations on office operations." As far as I know, the law on archival construction and the Law on office business is not about the archiving of electronic documents, nor is that termology present in those laws. So this is also one of the reasons why this law will not apply until these laws have changed, that is, until these provisions are incorporated into the laws on office business and archive construction. Another one of the remarks, which is not a fundamental remark, but it will disable the full application of this law. The problem of security when sending, or receiving, electronic documents is also something that is not sufficiently worked out in this law. For example, we were able to apply the solution that Germany applied in its law, where it forms so-called. the security information channel for the transmission of electronic documents, which will be authenticated by electronic signature and time stamp. This channel is guaranteed by state administration and cannot be in the domain of private ownership for both natural and legal persons. This information channel can be accessed by all state authorities, as well as by a work-licensed operator, through which both citizens and legal persons will distribute electronic documents. So, in this way, Germany has solved the security of sending and receiving mail, which I think could have been found in this law. The e-signature law was, therefore, passed in 2004, and the certificates for electronic signatures began to be given last year and in a year we have barely a thousand certificates that are, of course, symbolic; this number is symbolic in relation to the number of users of electronic communications and is far from that desired number that should enable the full application of the electronic administration strategy. Why is this number so small? The answer to that question can sooner be given by the Minister and the Ministry's authority. I think one of the reasons is the fact that the fee for obtaining certificates is extremely high and moves from six and a half thousand, so on. What's the big deal? A conclusion can be reached – because one of the participants in the certification chain is one of the foreign companies that has a monopoly in this area. We come, about, to the end of this law, which says that the issue of a time stamp here was introduced as a possibility, and that time stamp is issued by certain publishers who register with the Ministry of Information Society Affairs. In Section V, from Article 14, to Article 19, we have five places of definition where the minister responsible for the affairs of the information society prescribes closer conditions for those who wish to meet the system for the formation of the time stamp, and then, the minister prescribes the content and manner of the register, so the minister prescribes a closer content of the time stamp, so the minister prescribes closer content of the data structure, so the minister prescribes the timing contained in the time stamp. Madam Minister, I really respect your agility, but I'm not sure that one minister should deal with this kind of detail. It would be much more appropriate if everywhere it says "Minister", it says "Ministership", because I highly doubt that you will personally be dealing with it, it is likely that your assistants at the Ministry, who are much closer to this matter, who are closer to it and who are experts in this area, unlike you, will be dealing with this problem. Surveillance of the application of this law, inspection supervision, will be carried out by the Ministry, through the e-signature inspector. Do we have inspectors for electronic signature? As far as I know, we don't. It's not a problem that we don't just have an e-signature inspector, but the problem is that in the entire telecommunications ministry, in that area, which is controlled by the application of certain laws in this area, we don't have telecommunications inspectors. There's a legitimate question, why is that? Who controls the public fixed-line operator? Could there be certain abuses? Could it happen that an ordinary citizen is listening to someone from a public operator? Does anyone control this public operator in that sense? Who controls those who over various 9900 calls, or TV quizzes, or hotlines, or during various votings are unmistakably robbing Serbian citizens by getting a connection at the moment and then waiting; of course, no one is answering you, while paying one-off phone bills for such a type of service? Is this the kind of service that the State or the Ministry should provide for citizens in this way? I don't think so. Who controls the mobile operators in Serbia? You know for a fact that in large cities there's chaos in mobile telecommunications. You have to dial a number at least five times to get a connection. Very often it is said – the network is busy, very often you are told that the mobile subscriber is inaccessible, although of course it is available. Why is that? Is there an inspector who controls their technical solutions? There isn't. Who's in technical control of broadcasters in radio and TV spectrum? Nobody again. What's going on with the new electronic communications law? According to some information, the law is done by the task force, on Palic, every weekend, so the question is – is there an expert from the Ministry, who are they, do they know whether they participate in the making of the law and how these people are paid? What's going on with the RATL Management Board? RATEL has five members, of those five members, four of them expired, two last year, and two May this year. Why hasn't the Ministry launched a process of changing these members by now and how has RATL been working with four illegal members? Who's to say this is how the telecommunications area is arranged? The area, or market for telecommunications in Serbia, is estimated at over five billion euros. No one is monitoring and in this sense there is a certain chaos in this area. Why are inspectors who are professional for this and who are hired by the Ministry not doing their job as planned? These are questions that require an answer, which must be launched as soon as possible and the situation in this area must be settled. In this sense, this law will not be possible, because of the shortcomings and irregularities that have been made, but also the area of telecommunications at the moment is not resolved satisfactorily, especially in the area of surveillance, where the inspectors in charge of the job are obliged to do the job and to protect citizens from the will of various operators, whether it is mobile, fixed or other service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22132	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Jasna Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22133	I wanted to answer some questions concerning the authority of the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, which are not directly related to the law under discussion today, as I wanted to answer the questions concerning the law at the end of the presentation of all MPs and MPs. The issue of the RATEL Management Board and the inspection supervision in the telecommunications sector is one of the key problems facing our ministry. The problem is similar to that in the area of postal traffic, where there are also major shortcomings in market regulation. As you said correctly, most of the members of the RATEL Management Board are currently at the end of the term of office. As you also know, the power to appoint members of the Regulatory Agency for Telecommunications is right in the Assembly, as well as for the RRA, as well as for the Postage Services Agency, which has not existed for four years, and the law provides that there is one. The Telecommunications Act, as well as the Law on Postal Services, regulates the market is carried out by a competent agency, and what the Telecommunications Act, 2004, formulates, is that the Ministry does not have the right to inspectors, nor does it have inspectors. This is a fundamental lack of legal regulation which we currently have and which new draft e-communication laws will try to correct. Currently, the Republic Telecommunications Agency has the mandate to regulate the market, but there are no inspectors with executive powers. I agree with you that there is a failure in that sense. The legal group that writes the laws on electronic communications consists of two assistant ministers of our ministry, as well as several telecommunications experts from different universities of Belgrade University. As I said, other issues that are directly related to the law, which some MPs have mentioned, I will mention in the end, when I hear what everyone who is interested in this area has to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22134	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22135	Just a brief comment. I know this is the state of play and that regulatory agencies are supposed to solve this problem, but I haven't heard from you why the Ministry didn't initiate the process of changing members whose term of office ended and that it would solve the issue of inspection supervision in the area of telecommunications. If that's the jurisdiction of a certain regulatory agency, why aren't these inspectors transferred to their jurisdiction to do their job? This kind of vacuum doesn't suit anyone, or corresponds to those who are on the market, but it doesn't correspond to the state, and it's the state and the Ministry who need to protect them from those who provide services and through inspectors. If it's like this, then there's no one to solve this problem. It's the Ministry that needs to solve the problem, initiate its resolution. Thank you for your response to the bill. You mentioned that this is where telecommunications experts from Belgrade's universities and the ministry work. Are there any other universities in Serbia besides Belgrade? Any telecommunications experts, for example, from Novi Sad, Nis, or any other city? Do not make discrimination in every area, in that sense that some are smarter than others and have more rights and privileges to work on certain laws and say something smart than those who are not at the center of events.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22136	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Snow White Sedlar.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22137	Dear Mr. Novakovic, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is it necessary to speak in the 21st century at all about the importance of information technologies and the creation of an information society? For the sake of the public following our meetings, I think it's necessary. In the 21st century, thanks to the development of information and telecommunications technologies and their integration, the world becomes a global information society. In this, our country must not fall behind either, and this area is also given priority in development. The transition of our country to an information society will allow for a better life for all citizens, a more efficient and efficient work of entrepreneurs, companies, authorities. I would especially refer to the work of local self-government authorities, authorities at all levels, as well as the prosperity of society in general. I would like to remind that Serbia's pro-European development and our country's EU membership is the only development chance for Serbia and its citizens and the most effective guarantee of stable democratic development, uniform economic progress, as well as guarantees for the internal and external security of citizens and states. Why are we talking about this? Because our country, through its organs and acts, has committed itself to leading such a policy, and one of the segments of such a policy is, in any case, regulation, legislation of information technologies. In April 2005, the National Assembly of Serbia adopted a resolution on Serbia's EU accession and thus committed itself and the government to lead a policy that allows the country to bring closer and join the EU. The RS government and the National Assembly for European Integration have adopted a national strategy for Serbia's EU approximation, which has thus become a platform for public policy management, including legislation, in the first phase of formalising relations with the EU, i.e. to hold negotiations on the completion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We remember that on 29 April last year, an Association and Stabilisation Agreement, i.e. the SAA, was signed and the Serbian Parliament ratified the agreement in September last year. All present MPs were present in the present assembly. As for the development of the information society and the economy, they are based on the knowledge that has in the modern world contitiated son qua non-successful economic development. The intensive development of the information society is the most closely linked to the development of the telecommunications sector, and the rapid development of the electronic communications sector and related industries can help Serbia to significantly compensate for the apparent lagging in development, to address the problem of disparity in internal regulatory development, this will also do so by adopting a law on equal regional development, which we talked about a few days ago, also to reduce the unemployment rate and raise the competitiveness of its economy in the international market. The introduction of information and communication technologies into the state administration is very important in order to improve the provision of services to citizens, rationality in the consumption of public funds, efficiency in providing public services and the public in the work. The processes of functioning methodologies in the application of information and communication technologies should become the basis for full public administration reform and the way government and its authorities decide. I'd like to join my colleagues today who sent a congratulations to the Minister, who, along with her team, made us all happy yesterday. As you know, we witnessed yesterday, June 11, 2009, the first electronic session of the RS government was held. I also join some kind of criticism, I think as well as my colleague Lapcevic, because I believe that there has been quite a slow progress in the legal regulation of strategic definitions of the development of the information society in our country. This ministry had no authority at the time, it wasn't in this system, but regardless, I would remind you that the government adopted a strategy for the development of the information society in 2006. The strategy defines four basic objectives – it is the first acceleration and establishment of a structure for the construction of an information society, which means providing accessible communications services for everyone and harmonising the legal system with common assets. The second goal is cheaper and faster, secure Internet, or cheaper and faster Internet access, faster Internet for researchers and students and secure networks for intelligent, or smart cards. The third goal is to increase investment in people and knowledge, and the fourth is to stimulate the use of the Internet, which, in practice, means to accelerate electronic trade, to develop electronic administration, to develop electronic health, to set up local content, for example, national treasures and similar resources on the global network, to establish an intelligent transmission system and electronic ecology. Along with an information society development strategy, the government also adopted a national action plan, which sets out concrete tasks and deadlines to which they should be realised, as well as competent state bodies for their implementation. The Ministry of Ministrys Act of 15 May 2007 finally established the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, which conducts tasks related to postal and telecommunications traffic, international telecommunications, communications and postal traffic, the regulation and security of the technical and technological system of telecommunications and postal traffic and inspection. This amount of trusted competence enables this ministry to truly become the co-ordinator and focal point of building an information society and knowledge society in Serbia. We see that this ministry is really taking those steps. I'd like to say something about indicators of the development of the information society, building up, because this data is rapidly and daily changing, so probably these penetration rates are, as I say, already overcome, our happiness. The penetration rate, for example, the Internet or the number of Internet subscribers has reached about 25% in Serbia, i.e. there are over a million and a half, it is already an outdated data user of the Internet. Also, the penetration of personal computers, or the number of computers per 100 inhabitants, is 41%. The number of mobile phone subscribers is also up to half a million, fixed – about three million, the number of registered Internet service providers is moving around 150. As for households and individuals, the computer owns about 27% of households. Territorial representation is the following: Belgrade – 30%, Vojvodina – 29.6%, central Serbia – 22.7%, urban part of Serbia – 31.6%, rural part – 18.8%. This is one of the data that says that we really need to speed up the adoption of a law on equal regional development. Also, internet connection owns 18.5% of households, of which, Belgrade – 22.7%, Vojvodina – 19.8%, central Serbia – 15.6%. The internet connection is mostly owned by households with monthly incomes above 600 euros. The important preoccupation of many countries, but also of many actors in Serbia, is that the existing legal framework cannot, until now, adequately support electronic trade, or electronic business, and that existing laws are based on the existence of paper documentation, which represents a barrier to the spread of global electronic trade. The existence of a clear legal framework is important and is often singled out as a basic instrument for increasing the level of confidence in commercial transactions, both the business sector and the consumer. Starting with that legal certainty and trust on the key issue of each transaction, the credibility of electronic business depends largely on the potential of our national legal authorities, i.e. Ministries, to define and create a healthy and understandable legal basis for electronic business, which will thus raise faith and trust in such a way of doing business. The legal ideal situation is considered to be the one that gives the same legal status as the written signature and the paper document to digital signature and electronic documents. It can't be talked about the law on an electronic document without referring to the e-signature Act. Many of my colleagues have already said, I will repeat, this law was passed on 24 December 2004, almost five years ago, but the implementation of the law was not legally possible without sublegal acts, which were passed only in 2005 – the Regulation on technical and technological procedures for the establishment of qualified electronic signatures and criteria to meet the means for the formation of qualified electronic signatures, the Regulation on the near conditions for the issue of qualified electronic certificates, the Regulation on the register of certification bodies. In particular, I would mention the certification body of the Post, whose services and digital electronic certificates are intended both for internal use within the Mail and in all external participants of electronic business, whether they are legal or natural persons. As for the harmonisation of trade documents, data and procedures, this bill is, in any case, one of the most important steps in creating a basis for the development of an information society in electronic business in Serbia. It is the basis for harmonising trade documents, data and procedures, as a prerequisite for doing electronic business, my personal opinion, for countries of the region and the world, standardisation of electronic documents, by defining the generic model of the standard electronic document. Only a standardised electronic document, consistent with world standards, provides our business entities with a unique environment for the exchange of business data with significantly more potential business partners, geographically located in all parts of the global world market. Of course, it is very important to ensure the level of guaranteed security in the digital environment. He must be at least as much as he was in the conditions of classical paper business. The government, government authorities and the competent ministry are responsible for the development of an information society and should support it, and we see that they do so, especially through the model of private and public sector co-operation, online banking, the development of an electronic payment system, the improvement of payment security and information as part of the construction of national electronic business infrastructure. At regional level, Serbia must work together with other countries in the environment to develop cross-border electronic payments, cross-border recognition of electronic signatures, certification bodies, use of smart cards and other mechanisms. The long-term goal is to integrate Southeast European countries into a pan-European single payment system, an electronic trading platform and exchange. I would remind you that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97 paragraph 1 point 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides scientific and technological development. The main objective of the electronic arrangement is to encourage the wider use of electronic documents in our country by citizens, legal entities and authorities, all authorities, from state, republican, regional, so in particular to local authorities, local self-government authorities. All of this will, I'm sure, contribute to raising the overall efficiency of work, to significant material savings, my colleague has talked about the equivalent of this, as well as to improving quality, most importantly, the lives of all our citizens. As responsible MPs, the MPs of the G17 Plus Party and Parliament Club G17 plus, we care that in the near future, for all of these reasons, the work of the National Assembly is made both cheaper and more efficient, with significant material savings, the introduction of information technology into work, bar, individual segments of the National Assembly, as the highest legislative body. That is why the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, in voting day, will support the bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22138	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22139	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, here at first, to remind myself of the general position and the thinking that when any law is passed, especially in one such area as electronic business, it is necessary to define the legal environment in which that law is passed. It also needs to be defined and connected to other laws it's related to. When it comes to all of this, it is no shame to remind once again that one of the laws that should regulate the mentioned area of the Law on Electronic Signature. As we heard on many occasions, it was brought five years ago, but it experienced the fate of many legal solutions, which we of the SRS indicated, which is that they are not applicable in practice. All together, as stated in the electronic document law, the impression is that the law is written exclusively, or primarily for the needs of the electronic government, and that the provisions relating to the use of electronic documents relating to economic operators are not properly defined in the same law. Otherwise, as explained by the Proposer, the law is written in accordance with the UN Convention on the Use of Electronic Communications and, the famous sentence, with EU directives on electronic signature and electronic trade. In order for this area to be properly regulated, the SRS considers that, apart from not only adoption but also the application of the Electronic Signature Act and the Electronic Document Act, the law on electronic archives, as well as electronic commercial business, should also be adopted, as only in the event that all of this is united, the conditions for the accelerated development of real systems of electronic administrations, trade and document management and content management would be obtained. Now I will use this time to point out some of the opinions of the SRS Parliamentary Group and our attempts to amend the proposed e-document law through the amendments. In the part where the term 'copy of an electronic document' is regulated, it was really unacceptable for us to have this formulation mentioned in Article 7, paragraph 1, that the electronic document cannot have a copy in electronic form. We don't think that's in line with some things. Here, first of all, we mean so-called. bek ap systems, therefore it is necessary that the electronic document has a copy, because it is the only way to remain after some natural disasters and the like. Secondly, a little too much space has been given to the authorities to regulate certain areas. So we tried to include these economic operators in some way through the area of delivery of electronic documents between authorities, not as regulated here by law, by e-mail or other electronic means, in accordance with the set regulation, but we believe that this part of the work should be done through a public operator, since there is also a Law on Postage Services and Recommendations of the World Postal Federation. When it comes to Article 12, it is what may be most sensitive in the proposed law, on the preservation and protection of electronic documents, we believe that it is not possible in a sufficiently good way to keep electronic documents and that the competent ministry, the Ministry of Information Society, should prescribe forms, deadlines and ways of keeping electronic documents, because as regulated in the proposed law, it is unarranged, or not clearly defined. The principled opposition of the SRS to almost all draft laws that were in the assembly procedure is that certain tasks provided for by certain members of the law should not be carried out by the minister as an individual, but solely by the ministry, as a state administration body. There are our corrections, i.e. amendments, and the time stamp system, that is, Article 14, and a few other places. When it comes to criminal provisions, I will only remind myself that Article 24 provides for a sublegal act to be adopted by the Ministry within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. I think this time-limit is too long, given your allegations, that is, the importance and urgency of passing this law, so these six months, as you have predicted, are something that is unacceptable to us. For criminal provisions, the penalties provided for in the infringement of the time stamper, so it is taxed, we believe that they are also too high, given the current social situation, etc. We believe that this should be formulated differently, i.e. to determine other amounts of penalties. All in all, when we get an answer from both the Ministry and the committees, there could be a possible improvement in the proposed law, by accepting some, in our opinion, essential amendments, but still remains a finding that as much as the proposed law is needed, less or more bad, the problem arises later, in its application, especially if there is only a little more than a quarter of the population of the Republic of Serbia owns the Internet connection, and that the perspective in this area is extremely large. It is estimated, therefore, for 2010, that the total traffic from electronic trade in Europe could reach as much as 187 billion euros. We believe that this entire area must be regulated in a more valid way, laws need to be proposed on the basis of which any problem that could arise in all of this would be defined in a clearer way. We will be more extensive about all this when the amendment is debated. I expect you to find understanding, i.e. to see the desire to improve the proposed law through the quality amendments of the SRS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22140	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22141	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the ministry, esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament, starting with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, in Article 97(1) of point 12 of the regulation that the Republic of Serbia regulates scientific technological development and the accompanying scientific achievements in the area of modern communication, the proposal for an electronic document makes a significant step in the regulation of electronic business. This law thoroughly addresses those issues that are relevant for practice, for the functioning of electronic business in reality. The law will also allow for a more consistent application of the Law on Electronic Signature, which the Republic of Serbia adopted in 2004 and which began the process of developing electronic business in our country. As information technologies and business modes change very quickly, legal solutions that regulate this area must be flexible and open to new technological achievements. In this regard, it is good that this legislative solution is based on solutions contained in international documents, regulations and EU standards, and in particular on solutions from technologically developed countries, which have experience in resolving disputes in the field of electronic business. This law will allow all documents in electronic form to be legally relevant in legal relations. In this way, it is possible to fully equate classical forms of business using electronic form paper, which are provided by using information-communication technologies. The greatest advantage of this law is that the electronic document has the power of proof and what is considered to be the original. Also, a copy of the electronic document on paper has the evidence power of the original. This solution creates the possibility to encourage a wider use of electronic documents in our country. This will contribute to raising the overall efficiency of work, material savings and improving citizens' lives. This law is very important for citizens, businesses, state administration and local self-government and all other entities in different areas of communication. Its application will allow progress in the international situation and the functioning of both the Republic of Serbia and its bodies and in the functioning of all entities, from economy to citizens. Dear fellow Members of the People, I am convinced that the adoption of this law will bring our country much closer to the most advanced societies of the modern world, which are open to new achievements in science and technology. Due to all this, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, in the voting day, will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22142	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22143	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected Madam Ministers and honourable fellow Members of Parliament, the Minister has probably noted that all the MPs who spoke reminded us, citizens and ministers that we are the first law in this set of laws to be regulated by electronic business was adopted far away in 2004. Last session was the Electronic Trade Act, and now it's our turn to propose an electronic document bill. There are some other laws that the National Assembly will have to adopt if we want this area, at least as far as legislation is concerned, to be settled properly. But I can't put Mrs. Matic on her soul that she's the only one responsible for the delay in all these other laws. So in 2004, it began the process of developing this legal framework that is necessary for the development of electronic business, and in particular the existence of a qualified electronic signature, because it represents a significant segment of the electronic document. This law is a step further in that direction. As far as the electronic business is concerned, it is in Serbia, in which we can all agree, quite undeveloped, unedited, and so far we have done very little on its development. At the beginning of this year, the Information Society organized a round table with a theme – Applying an electronic signature in Serbia. It was practically four years after the adoption of the Law on Electronic Signature. Participants in the discussion agreed that there were many more problems and shortcomings. Among other things, they also spoke of the lack of adequate laws, that no sublegal acts were adopted, although I think that since January, or March, I don't remember exactly when this round table, there was a shift, was adopted several sublegal acts. It was the first grudge from that round table. The second, which we all have to agree with, is that the development of these service packages, as it is called, or a service package in certain sectors, is slow. It is one thing, then, when you set up and bring in all the laws and sublaws that are necessary, and the other is how many individual sectors, i.e. branches, develop this internal package of services and services, that is, how capable they are of enabling citizens and businesses to communicate or operate with electronic signatures. The only sacred example there may be banks, or we all know that the concept of E-banking, that banks mainly took advantage of the chance and that a large number of payment transactions or these transactions, when it comes to banks, take place with the use of electronic signature. There are even data that some banks make 50% of their payments by using, at least so far, and now the other elements will be used, electronic signature. Also, anyone who follows this area or is interested, it is known that last year, PTT Serbia's Public Enterprise formed the first public certification body. In this way, the Post office entered the Ministry of Telecommunications's first accredited body for the issue of qualified digital certificates, so that in December of last year, the post office began to assign these electronic certificates and electronic signatures. This is also a question for Madam Minister, when she answers all our questions, which is – how many of these accredited bodies have been listed so far, is it just that it's only the Post Office? There is also a question of monopoly, because if in any area only one body, or one company, does a job, then different problems can be opened, it can be a monopoly; given that the package in December cost 6,500 dinars, which is not little at all, if it were a bigger offer, then probably the price could be a little lower. Another example is that certain sectors have not developed internal packages of services and services is the public administration. It's mostly about replacing our old ID cards with new ID cards. On these ID cards there are those chips, there are electronic signatures in the chips, precisely because it will be able to be used and citizens can thus make life easier for themselves. However, we still have the case that those from whom they would ask these services do not have developed their own internal sector. Once again, a question for the Minister – can the Ministry of Telecommunications, which I believe is not responsible, but could be found at the service and various sectors, be helped, are the planned training, education, what kind of assistance can the Ministry of Telecommunications provide? The very proposal for a law was mostly a matter of words. It is that this law regulates the procedure for handling electronic documents. Here we have defined how a document is received which is in electronic format, how an electronic document receipt certificate is issued, how duplicates are kept. Electronic documents are scheduled to be kept for as long as it is intended for an area to keep the document that was so far, it may still be in paper form for some time. At least that's how I figured it out. But I don't think it's going to work like that. I don't know exactly, we have, I'm not sure if it's a law or a regulation on office business, then we have a law on archives. I don't think these laws will be able to include the existence of electronic documents and that it will be necessary, at least, to pass the law on electronic archives, in order to follow these electronic documents as well. Then, the law also includes members who talk about the time stamp, and according to the obligations arising from that regulation on office business and the Administrative Procedure Act, because there are a lot of transactions, so to speak, or in that business world, much depends on the date. Are the proposed members of the bill quite enough to protect that the date cannot be falsified, that is, to change the time on the computer, so that you are later late to react, etc.? I think it's clear to everyone how important it is not to get to the forgeries. What I can say is that this bill is pretty good. The DSS parliamentary group submitted several amendments concerning deadlines. There will be more words about this when we talk about amendments in the discussion of details. My colleague Milan Lapcevic has made some further objections, but that will be said when the debate is in particular. I don't have much time yet, but I'd like to take this opportunity, speaking of modern technologies, to lie that both our children and our young people are in great danger when it comes to the way they use the Internet. According to polls in some European countries, 90% of young people, even children, use the Internet. We don't have that exact data when it comes to Serbia, although we can all notice that although it's a low standard, parents are trying very hard to get and buy a computer, because today it's a grown man, if there's no basic information literacy, illiterate, let alone children who are just getting school. I don't think I have anything special to explain to any of you. So we have young people who use the Internet that way, and the security culture when it comes to using the Internet is very bad, especially when it comes to parents, because our children know a lot more about it than parents do. I have two boys in elementary school and as far as protecting a child from a computer is concerned, it's down to making a code they don't know, so sometimes I turn it on and leave it to them for a while so they can use it. That's not enough. I know the Ministry of 2009 declared it a year to protect children from the Internet, so that's another question. How's that campaign going? So this is the sixth month, it's been half a year. The goal is to know, therefore, education and warning and youth, and parents, and teachers, and everyone who uses the Internet at all dangers and how the Internet should be used safely. What activities have been carried out so far? How many schools, if that's what this campaign was supposed to be, are involved in? Are you maybe waiting for the next midterm? How many, in this case, will the school children be covered? Can we, after the campaign is over, or the project, expect you in the Assembly to have some kind of report or find, where would you tell us where our children and young people are today when it comes to the Internet and how much danger they are in? It's perfectly clear that they're measuring technologically... (President (Gordana Komic): The time available to the parliamentary group has been used. )......................................................................................................... So it's quite clear that only by technological or technical measures you can't do that, that there's a lot of other things you need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22144	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 58 minutes. Minister Jasna Matic also asked for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22145	I just wanted to briefly answer the question about the safety of children on the Internet and to say that I am grateful to the DSS MPs for asking that question today in the National Assembly. The ministry, as you said, has declared this year's protection of children on the Internet and has so far published a brochure for children, a brochure for parents and teachers, a web site with detailed information about the problems that are on the Internet, but also with basic concepts that children are familiar with, but parents are not, precisely with the goal of having parents master everything that exists on the Internet today, so that they can talk to their children about what children are doing and follow their behavior. On this site there are also links to free software that provide certain protection when using the Internet. Printed and cried, which will be distributed to all schools in Serbia from the beginning of next year, so that children have awareness of what they should do and what they should not do. We also expect Parliament to give its support to this one approach, which will be complemented at the end of this year by establishing an educational network of Serbia, by overgrown the academic network, which currently connects universities in Serbia, into an educational network, which will connect all educational institutions, meaning, and primary and secondary schools, which will have protection from unwanted content in their network system, as well as from viruses and other incursions to the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22146	The Messenger of the people, Milorad Buh, has the word, and after him is the messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic; he is the last to be declared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, is before us today the proposal for a law on an electronic document, which together with two laws in this area, the laws on electronic signature and on electronic trade, represents one continent that is very important in the field of electronic business, both in the narrow and in the wider sense of the category of electronic business. There are today various forms of electronic business in the world. They have been developing for 40 years and we have a very pronounced and prominent quality form of electronic business, both in the field of state administration and in the area of banking, trade, the work of state authorities, predominantly fiscal authorities, tax authorities, customs authorities and other authorities. Where are we in this system? We've been doing this kind of business for 15 years, mostly banking business started 15 years ago, and everyone else is just in the water. We've been coughing for the world for 30 years. This law is very important from the aspect of formal-legal regulation, which is aggregated and to which we will receive a rounded continent, together with the sublegal acts that the Ministry will bring, but cannot be satisfied with the application, implementation of these two laws, the Law on Electronic Signing and the Law on Electronic Trade, and the implementation of this law, when adopted in this assembly, will be made difficult because it has not formally entered into the regulation covered by other legislation. What are the legal rules that have an important connection and correlation with this regulation? These are the Law on office operations, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Archival Construction, the Law on Citizenship, the ID card, etc., which have a very important function and which will have to get some legal innovations. I think that the proposer had to resolve this by means of this legislation, as well as the issue of the entire electronic business related to this legislative project, means the law on the electronic document, because the adoption or innovation of the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Office Business Act, etc. agreed otherwise on a huge legislative regulation and multiplied legislation in the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday, we were able to get some information on government work, a new form of government work, an electronic session of the government, as well as information on the amount of savings. It's good, from the point of view of state and society, to make sure that we do an analysis of how much we're saving in this way. Not only are we saving, but we're speeding up the process, we're doing better, we're thinking about the government. But I'm asking a question -- why didn't we start yesterday, why didn't we start last year, why didn't we start five years ago, because the same preconditions that we had today were five years ago? The same question for the Assembly’s professional services – why didn’t we start working in electronic form five years ago, ten years ago, or yesterday, when the government? We have preconditions, but we don't have a good will and we don't have an analysis. A year ago, when certain initiatives were launched in this assembly about getting laptops and going into electronic data processing, that all the documentation we get in the paper in electronic form, that moment the journalists stopped everything. And everyone in this country stops and starts the press. Why? Because the state authorities don't work. The telecommunications ministry and other state authorities are obliged to make analyses; the same analysis must be done by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday we received information that what was invested in information technology for the government's electronic sessions will cost about 37-38 million and will be paid in a year. Why doesn't this assembly make the same analysis, go public and the citizens of Serbia and say – yes, MPs will get it and the Assembly will save so much and so much money? They don't even matter materially, or financial information about how much savings it is, it's important that we get far more quality of everything we get on paper. In the Assembly, we could get some information that certain documents, draft laws, various amendments did not come to parliamentary groups. Why? Because it is a bunch of documents that correspond between the promoters, those who process them, the professional services of the Assembly, the couriers who deliver it, MPs who take it over later, etc. In that documentation collapsing, it's normal for failures to happen, so certain documents don't come in. When it comes to e-mail, there's no problem. So if she didn't do it, and she didn't do it, she'd have to start doing an analysis today, and in 10, 15, a month's time we get information, an analysis of how much savings we get. I will read to you what I see not only in the work of the state authorities, but in the work and preparation of documents by citizens, when they correspond with state authorities, then, we must also mention the economy. A great deal of time is lost on making documentation, handing over documentation, downloading and processing of documentation, archiving, etc. All of this will be lost when we have a well-designed legislative system, sublegal acts that guide us in the way and forms of work and, in the end, we will have all of this electronically processed, sorted, archived and always available, far faster than it is today. This way of electronic business will give us far more efficient work by the state authorities; it is primarily important for the state administration, because they are the bearers of the largest data processing activities, making certain documents, which are later delivered to citizens. We need to mention this both material and financial savings, in terms of far less time in document making, on the other hand, the state authorities will spend far less on doing so in electronic terms. It's very important to waste time in front of the counters, because citizens today spend a great deal of time in front of the counters. Here, I come from Novi Sad. You could see in the written and electronic media that people come there in the evening classes, bring chairs, spend all night in front of the MUP, to get either certain confidence, ID, or some other travel document, because they need it. Citizens are wasting a lot of time in front of counters. All of this is lost when we have one designed system. This is the beginning and therefore this ministry and other ministries and other state bodies must go far deeper. We see in the light of this bill that no means will be necessary. And that there will be the necessary means to revive this system, because without resources, without the acquisition of technology, without the purchase of operational systems and the education of the workforce there is no implementation of this law, there is no implementation of this law. So, at work, the state authorities first of all, it's in the citizens' interest. It is not in the citizens' interest to get one dry law, which no one will later open, but is in the interest of having operational laws, which will be applicable and implemented as soon as the preconditions are created. Presumptions are there. We've got operating systems, we've got adequate technology, we just have to take advantage of it. We need to educate the workforce. We don't have an educated workforce at the state administration. We now have a satisfactory number of operating systems and technologies, but we don't have an educated workforce that can carry it. State officials are over 50 years old. More than half of them have never turned on a computer. No longer has he read what is important from the aspect of this kind of business. So, the state authorities have to move urgently to acquire technology, operating systems, which requires money and training of the workforce. So this doesn't seem to be your finding that to enforce this law doesn't require money. If you're just going to bring it in and not apply it, then you really shouldn't. You've satisfied the shape, and what's essentially going on in real life, it doesn't matter. That's how you do it. You can't do that and you can't do that. It's not in the citizens' interest. What I want to point out is how certain legal projects are implemented in practice. I'll give you an example here. He is inspiring, somewhat tragic, but he paints the true image of today's society and the carelessness of power towards the people. Six months ago, we adopted the Law on Parent Books, which we predicted that the documents issued by the Matrimonials were not time-limited, i.e. permanent character; they were derived from birth certificates, married, dead. So far, we've had a situation that, for every document, when we asked for the assurance of citizenship or the solution of citizenship, we had to deliver a copy of the birth certificate and it should not have been more than six months old. Now that provision has been deleted by the Law of Parent Books. However, in practice, it has not been deleted, it remains. On the website of the Ministry of the Interior, we can read what is necessary for the issue of a biometric ID card: a personal card or other valid ID is required, if a person already has a ID card, further, a copy of the birth certificate not older than six months, and that is to say, to the insight, assurance of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia not more than six months old, and again to the insight. You see how the state authorities treat their citizens. Now I will illustrate to you what it means for a citizen refugee, an expelled person from Croatia, who must go to Croatia for that very reason. What's on the site, it's in the clerk's papers on the counters. When he comes to the counter with a valid document, valid according to the provisions of the Law on Parent Books, and now other legal regulations, the clerk says – no, he must be younger than six months. This same citizen, who has avoided a person, who has a refugee ID, must go to Croatia, bring a document; so for the assurance of citizenship, and for the ID card, passport and any other documents issued by the state authorities. It's not just going away, it's paying an administrative fee there, and it's three or four times bigger than here, it's going to lose one or two days, it's travel expenses; since it's all burned down, destroyed, etc., ends up in a hotel, so it's 50-60 euros, etc. So for one, so for the other mate, so for the child, so for one document, so for the other, etc. As the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia work, it is a crime according to a certain category of population, not to say about everything, and for these in particular – avoided without property, without rights, etc., condemned to mercy and mercy in front of their own state bodies. We need to take another category of residents, and that's avoided faces, officially, according to the Refugee Commissioner, there are over 90,000. These people, when they start a procedure to get a solution to citizenship and personal documents, cannot go to Croatia. Why? Because their documents, or passport from Republika Srpska, or the old Croatian passport, are invalid. How can they leave? Not at all. Then they wind up in these kinds of ways, and through their husbands, through their relatives, etc., because I can't go alone. See what awaits them there – they come to the police station there, they call it the police station, and then they tell them – for that and you have to go to the tax authority first to get confirmation that tax obligations have been settled. Since 1991, or 1995, or 1997, in the Republic of Serbia, and normally, the tax authority has been calling and cutting taxes and a certain obligation is being kept in tax books. How do you get that paper? To settle obligations? As a rule, refugees settle their obligations to get a document. Then they're moving on. When this document is obtained, they say – you must go to municipal institutions, such as municipal enterprises, various other enterprises, in electricity, in gas companies, and bring about a confirmation that all obligations on municipal fees and utility services have been met. When all of this is satisfied, then it goes to the military department and out of there, certain statements, photocopies of a military book, and all of this is delivered again to the man who is there, because this one cannot go away, and all of this takes a year or six months, with a lot of anxiety, with a lot of funds being paid to the state of Croatia, just because the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are not thinking about it. The SRS has repeatedly raised this issue and pointed to the huge problems of the refugee population, but what do you care? What do you care about the unfortunates who have been expelled, their property destroyed, their rights taken away, etc.- I'm sorry. After all, to ignore all this, why is there a provision that is against the law on the website of the state authority? Why are we driving people into situations like this? It's a crime against these people, it's a continuation of the crimes these people have been experiencing in the '90s. In a formal and legal sense, the law itself is not complete in terms of supervision. Control over the implementation of this law is said to be carried out by the Ministry. How are you going to carry out surveillance? How are you going to get into the paperwork, how are you going to get into the electronic documents? How do you technically, technologically, get into those documents? How will the inspector do that for an electronic signature? Not enough, incomplete, vague and will create confusion. Therefore, I say, the implementation of this law should follow the moment it is adopted. It's been eight days. You have to have control tomorrow. We've been doing electronic business for 15 years. How? It's done by certain organs, without control. Is there an abuse? There are, and it's huge. Why? Because we don't have state control. State control instruments are inspection bodies. What you wrote, it's a dead letter on paper, both for the Ministry and for the inspection. It's no excuse to say you don't have a telecommunications inspector right now. It must be in function the moment it occurs, when, in practical application, in practical life, we have certain negative phenomena, which can have negative social implications. We've identified problems here in mobile phones, problems with cable operators, and with all the other operators, but all this is happening in front of us, we've put our hands down, we don't have an inspector. Well, create prerequisites for being an inspector. It's, like, a week, a month's work. Legally, put legal projects here and standardize legal regulations and do all that. There's no reason for the opposition to question you. We dispute the phenomena that are evident and the facts that are clear, but, on the other hand, the state just shuts up about it and always builds on certain problems, and the best excuse for me to delay the opposition in the Assembly with numerous amendments, etc. It's empty stories. Go from these empty stories to actions, work, and the opposition won't have any problems. Why would she interfere with your work, but we'll hate to stop you from working, and we won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22148	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 25 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22149	At first, I would really like to give something as an introduction, because in these forest regulations, pro-European regulations, however, the people need to be oriented, to realize that those words of 'pro-European regulations' may in this area have no meaning that you normally give some other regulations. Our society is pretty tough, persistent and, I must tell you, indestructible. Computers aren't something that started in 2001. It can't be said that someone is progressive, extremely smart, beautiful, nice, has a laptop, and he's done his job. There are some older people out there who remember that "comodore" pi-si 328, or whatever it was, etc. By the nature of things, we want to move forward as a society. It is good to move on and that life imposes the need to regulate something, first of all, guarantees that must be provided for some security. If there are no guarantees, unless there's safety, if there's no protection, then all it's supposed to be is a new common fraud. We were victims of major planetary fraud, and those tiny ones, and the tiniest ones, and as much as anyone liked it or didn't like it, this area couldn't be stopped. But there's no need to stop her. It's just, it's life, it goes its course. He's got his principles. Let me remind you, once upon a time, in that former Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the fathers were known for writing these state documents, because they were rare typewriters, and then they were written in writing, introducts, contracts. At that time, every family in the year had a need for one, possibly two documents, and then there was an opportunity to write it. As society went forward, there was a need for some new documents today, literally, when you go home and open a mailbox, you have to find some document. Sometimes it's a water bill, sometimes it's a bill for electricity, a bill for a phone, and something else, like a solution for paying a fine. We are simply exposed to a large amount of documents that currently mean life and affect the life of an individual. We're simply buried in these documents. Electronics allows you to work faster, but it's just a means. This should only be seen as a technical means, not as a goal. The goal that needs to be achieved is inside a man, not a laptop. Only a man who doesn't know anything can brag about having a laptop. It's usually a tool – I have a little better pen. And all those who think that the source of their planetary knowledge should be a laptop, attached to the Internet, getting some information, sending a message that they can be potential patients, because of that virus that governments in the United States and some highly technologically developed societies, Japan, and China, where there are certain groups of addicts who, thank God, have not yet been electrocuted when they catch a laptop, but simply, they have to stare, they have to stare at that laptop, they have to go to Google to search and get some information. So they show that the book is their side, but the left hand in the form of a laptop, which pours it into their head, is something necessary. I have no intention of Caricating anything, but to define something correctly and orient in time and space. If there is an objection from the SRS regarding this and similar laws, where it is mentioned about some electronics, some new technological achievements that need to be applied in practice, then know that our criticisms are only in the part where the state needs to fulfil its function, which is guarantee, protection, control, reliability, because we believe that there is an obligation of the state in that part. The state must not allow its passivity to be naive and to suffer. Then the question arises inevitably – where is the state? This law now defines what an electronic document is. According to this article, as you have defined it, it is data in terms of numbers, letters, characters, graphic and visual display, and later on there are some other characteristics, some descriptions and characteristics, from which it can be concluded that it is a special type of document, which can be called a submission, written, both by those who refer to the parties and those representing the decision of the state authority. However, in that definition, you have forgotten only one thing, which is most important for all these documents, which is the free will of the sender, the author. She's nowhere to be found, as there's nothing to be dissociative, decision, order, warrant, in something called a decision by a competent state authority or a local self-government authority. This law should only regulate that what you call an electronic document meets all the requirements regarding reliability that it is, at least in the text section. That guarantee must be secured by the state. This is the issue of the law, which the proponent could not solve by the provisions of the law, so it allowed these issues, as eminently technical and technological, to be resolved by sublegal acts. Look at that kind of layism he's accessing. In Article 24, these are transitional and final provisions, it is prescribed that sublegal acts for the implementation of this law are adopted by the Ministry within six months. Then, turn only one page forward, Article 14, item 3 – the minister responsible for the information society prescribes closer to the conditions that must meet the system for forming a time stamp. Article 24 and Article 14 are quite collegiate and it can be concluded that you would have to adopt an amendment, or that you would submit an amendment and change this, because this could be the cause of a major fight at the Ministry, that people there believe that they are obliged to bring it, and that the minister, as an individual, an in-house body, says – not you, but I am in charge, and that there is a fight, blood to the knees in the room, because you, voting for this law, have fought them. Interesting thing. We've been talking for days about some laws that are in session of the National Assembly. Yesterday, I commended the government that it finally realized that the Ministry was a competent state body, not a minister. The Minister is an in-house body within the state authority. I see, these regulations that have kept the manner that existed before, the minister is here, if not God, St. Peter, there is somewhere close. One more thing's interesting. This law, which has that name – on an electronic document, pays much more attention to someone who guarantees that it is a certificate, and it must be a legal person and must carry out economic activity, because communication is an economic activity. Imagine, in criminal terms, there are only violations. Why am I saying this? Yesterday we had a law on associations on the agenda, and for associations you predicted even responsibility based on a business offense. I'm just surprised who's writing you these regulations. The one who writes these regulations to you absolutely does not know the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia in the past, and especially the one that has been established by the new constitution since 2006. Why? Here's the idea of handing everything over to the minister, the ministry. Let me remind you, we had a bill of association yesterday. The law provides for the exact details of what the register contains. We had the Law on Political Parties a few months ago, who runs the register, how the register is conducted, which the data are recorded, etc., up to details. There's only one provision here, or, to be precise, a few sentences in a few terms, that the minister prescribes it, and whoever does this job, by issuing this time stamp, must not start working until it's registered in the register. What are his rights? What conditions should it meet? It's not a sublegal act, it's just some technical details may be, but that procedure, those who understand computers, I don't understand, use the term 'pro around', something that's prescribed how it works, there's some technology, some order of moves. In that sense, this bill is inconclusive. Why is he unspeakable? The purpose of each law and those provisions is that the law enters into force a few days after the adoption is that whoever reads the law knows what its rights are, what its obligations are. Whoever reads this law, if you adopt it in this text, will not know what its rights and obligations are. One more thing I think is important, this is all possible, it's not a commitment. I must commend those who wrote this law on that provision where they said that this law and the evidence force of the electronic document is not recognised for those legal matters where the personal presence of citizens, parties, parties, etc. is required. So we need to figure out what the range of this bill is. He does not prohibit normal communication on paper, within the prescribed time limit, he only opens up the possibility of speeding up this society. Now I have to draw your attention to something. Since we introduced these computers and said that time is money, it's accelerated everything: it's accelerated the turnover of capital, but it has accelerated the robbery, what you could steal in two months, now you can steal in two minutes. It may seem funny to you, or interesting, but during the sanctions, our children, when I say ours, don't mean mine, but our children in Serbia have proven very involved in these things to break down some systems abroad through computers, so they order equipment, TVs. I heard about one guy who ordered a car, so he couldn't because of customs. Why am I using this as an example? This highly sophisticated technology inevitably produces and highly sophisticated crime. It's in your life plus a minus. That's the halo around us. You know, until one day it's dark, the other can't light up. Like the money has "pistol" and "head," as there's something positive, in the same amount there's something that's negative. How many of those who try to enforce the law in the best possible way are likely to have more of those who want to break it and not do as it is written in the law. This law does not provide those guarantees. I don't want to use examples that anyone can find on the Internet, and on the stock market, and on this and on the crime issue. This law does not regulate criminal acts, there is another regulation that prescribed what constitutes a criminal offence in the field of electronic data processing. I'm getting the impression that perhaps the widest audience this topic is not clear enough. I'm trying to avoid these terms that electronics use, I don't deal with those terms, and if I were to surface, I might be wrong, so everyone would laugh, and I don't want to talk nonsense, but something that looks like this, you don't want to blame me, is these e-mail messages of ours, except there would be someone else here, conditionally speaking, stamp, as if it were official. You see, I was the victim of an e-mail message, but not here, but in the Netherlands, and it's from the National Assembly. That's what the Secretary of the National Assembly knows. An investigation has been conducted here, at my request. People who understand that have found that, apparently, someone on my computer has sent a message from two words to an address there, but my computer hasn't been deleted, nor have I ever sent messages. There are some messages from three or four years ago. I was a little short of being arrested because they say – you have an e-mail address and you are responsible for everything that comes from your e-mail address. That's why I'm talking about protection, about guarantee and what needs to be security for every citizen. A few days ago, I found out that this could have been committed by breaking into the National Assembly server and from some laptop, through that vyrles, that it really looks like my computer left a message. Where's the protection? Who is he who guarantees protection, who guarantees reliability? You wrote that this time stamp holder is that security. He's a guarantee of reliability. He is, in the end, a guarantee of the accuracy of what exists. It does not enter the contents, because it is not the author of the contents. How do we control him? We have now, however, not now, but before, prescribed this inspector for an electronic signature. Since the mass application of this law is expected, because the point of the law is to enable anyone who has a computer and that phone line to enter that system, the question arises – how can all this be controlled? How much does the inspector need? We were just listening to the example that it was possible to end up on the stock market, end up with crime. We still haven't solved the situation so that a man can call you at four o'clock in the morning by phone and say – tomorrow is the election, vote for it and so on. This dreamy man swears by sending him and the one he should vote for. That's what the competition did. A man lives in error, as in the time of partisans and Chetniks. You know, partisans let their beards go, they make something out there and they say it's the Chetniks, or the other way around. I use these simple examples – how to protect ourselves from fraud. Everything that's high-tech was done, first of all, because of something bad. Let me give you an example. The first video recorder made NASA, to put it on satellite, to record the Russian side, what's up and how it is. After a few years, the mangup realized – this can be interesting for mass use; then they went into production for mass use and now everyone can buy a VCR. Almost without crime, there is no development of technological society, as you can see, or of corrupt intentions, which is why something is invented. It is likely that the atomic bomb is also a product of poor thought on radiation, which at first probably had some noble purposes. How do we protect ourselves? That's the lack of this law. That's what we criticise, that's what Mr. Buha was talking about, and Vladan Jeremic. We've submitted some amendments. We probably can't handle it properly with our amendments either, but that's a big problem. There's some providers out there. I was counting on us to have our strong telecommunications network, given that it was state-owned, Telekom, etc., but I didn't know that everything that goes towards abroad as a message, as a signal, was going through the Verat firm. I may have made a mistake, but she's holding the main cable towards Subotica, towards Europe. Doesn't it? Keep the side, but Telekom pays them. He doesn't pay Telekom to them? Then I'm totally informational illiterate. It's no problem, I've got two and a half kilos of material here. Then we have this SBB, Soros, he gave you to be president in America. You're not familiar? I'm familiar. Now these kind of transmissions are coming up. The question arises: Who can control them? We heard, we got Ratel, there's people under the resignation. Even so, we have the Securities Committee, and they're all under wraps. Wherever the G17 plus is, there's something left behind. In information technologies, annual traffic is five billion euros, someone said. I knew there had to be a G17 plus. In insurance companies, so many and so many billion. It's got to be G17 plus. In the banking system, so many and so many billion, it has to be G17 plus. Once, by mistake, you had a minister of agriculture, where it was reportedly not big money, but then it was an interesting soy shotgun. What guarantees do we get? We don't want anything to be prevented, we support that this is not mandatory, but it provides opportunities for those who want, who are equipped and give them some guarantees, but what are the guarantees for the whole society that this will not be abused? We're not going to put one of the Horseman's units next to every provider to control it, are we? If he told you now how many he's listening to in this country, in this country everyone is listening. They say that for about 500,000 euros you can provide such a listening system to sit at home on a computer and listen to everything that is said in Serbia. Let me remind you, a little bit, so a transcript of a conversation comes out in the paper, and what Zarko Obradovic said, and what Zoran Lilić said, and how this, and how it all comes back as a boomerang. Of course, I do not advocate that the main sign of reliability would be that someone would enter the church, so you would swear, and you know it yourself, you have people who have deceived God. The one who could have fooled God, why couldn't he have people? If a man has a laptop, he can use electronic documents. You understand, it's just a means that speeds up something, but it also allows for possible fraud, unless there are clear protection provisions. Let me remind you, if you're talking about some right, some freedom, the way it's done is governed by the law. This is the main lack of this bill, because this regulation is also entering into something concerning the freedoms, rights and responsibilities of citizens. That has to be taken care of, because if we don't take care of it, we can get into a situation like the one we just figured out, while the Bhuha was talking about. In fact, three years ago, there was some record that the MPs on the lapels would get a laptop, so there wouldn't be a lot of paper. They all waited for it on the knife. Watch out for the lapels, while he's an MP to win, etc. Everyone cut that into a knife, and now we have a situation to sink and sink the paper. In the end, a little joke. Given the development of electronics, I am simply surprised that MPs who have a laptop do not attach their scientific presentations to the agenda point in the form of an electronic document. They could, say, attach their exposure to electronic form, as an electronic document. I don't know how many congregations are equipped with that. We asked for it, we suggested, there was some formula to make it really cheap, to cut costs, it was rejected, some laughed, etc. It's been a year and a half, and we came back to talk about it again. So, the idea of good, the idea enjoys support, because there's no need for this to be stalled in any way, but it's necessary to provide a guarantee to anyone who believes in the state, who believes in this law, not to be played, cheated, or otherwise damaged. It is that it may be a bit off the topic that is on the agenda, but one fellow MP opened a good question when he said – on all TVs you have 20-30 quizs, turn the number, wait, you get; you wait there, it types. That kind of state fraud didn't stop. It's not enough to tell the state - you turned the phone, you took the risk. The state can't think like that. People got burned. We had Dafiment Bank and Jugoscan, so the state took over, in a way, with a delay, the obligation to resolve it, because at that time the state failed. Now you've got this Elite savings company that's advertised, advertised, invited people, paid people, lost a man, stayed a debt. They report to the state, but the state says you've been playing alone. Wait, who let that form work? Who made it possible for them to advertise so much on television, in the newspapers, and get a clientele? I'm talking more about systems of fraud that are possible, that the public sees. Someone is critical of everything offered on the market, and someone is easy to think about. If the state saw, and she had to see, I guess the civil servants read the newspaper, watch TV, the state has to take responsibility. In what sense is responsibility? If anything is a crime, go after the perpetrator of a crime, and not to say, you were playing. This is what I'm talking about so there won't be an electronic document situation tomorrow. One more thing to be clear, it is well written in this bill that as far as the legal fact and the fullness of the electronic document, the one who contests, cannot be called for a lack of form. Someone criticized, I don't know why, but it's obvious he didn't get the point. We don't have formal evidence in our legal system. Anything can be evidence if it's relevant and has some kind of evidence. But, form, you know. In formal matters, it's contracts, heiress statements, and I'm not going any further. This isn't the situation. I get the impression that in the end I have to say, this already exists with us and it has some kind of uncertainty, now by the state, practically, it gets the seal, but, in law, it's too much about documents like: writing, solutions, submissions, demands, communication. It's simply that it comes from this that the primary importance for something that is business traffic – communication with the Stock Exchange, communication between clients, communication, is simple, in transport. It just comes out of it. Because if we were to talk about these solutions, then the state still needs to get tech equipment so that a man, at his request, can send an electronic solution. When it comes to court, I don't tell you how long it takes. They barely just took care of those computer records and objects. Just to remind you that for 20 and a few years, this country has some kind of district networking program, county-level inspection bodies, with competent state authorities, above all, the ministries and the government. I don't know how much it's all come to life now. It's probably something, but for 20 years, this country has been thinking about how to make it faster, more efficient and more reliable. Those who are now allegedly making something very important, big, big, "it's the 21st century" and other big stories - don't overdo it and don't forget that this country has long been in IT. Probably the Minister knows better than I do, but in 1950 and some years ago, we were the third powers in the field of IT, or electronics. Why does that matter later, this development, etc., these are other issues. But don't underestimate it. This people are resourceful, this people love new technical achievements, even if these computers are accessible, available, see for themselves, people are trying to provide their child with a computer, whether they have large or small incomes. They just want their kids to move forward. They said that this computer is significant and everyone wants to buy it for their child, and it's a good thing they want to buy it. But we shouldn't become slaves to those machines. There's that danger. If we become slaves to those machines, then we've robbed the bostan. Of course, everyone should use it, if possible, a laptop, but that doesn't mean he should put it on his head right now, like the lady who put the ficus on, so he walks by the Duke of Michael, counting on tomorrow to be a fashion detail, so they'll all go with the ficus. There is no need to exaggerate and no need to underestimate this society and this people. This is a vital people, a visperous people, an intelligent people. That's it, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22150	The word was sought by Minister Jasna Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22151	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would first of all like to thank all of you who have shown interest in this topic and dedicated my presentation to the debate on the law on the electronic document. I would like to answer a few questions that you mentioned, which we also considered in the draft law process. There is no doubt that this law, like all other laws in the Republic of Serbia, should lead, above all, to improving living conditions for citizens, facilitating business conditions for the economy and raising the competitiveness of our economy on the world market. On the subject of a certified electronic signature that has been mentioned here several times and which represents one of the elements of the entire electronic business system, I would like to say that it is true that for now there is only one certified publisher of the signatures, but that we as the Ministry have received an application for another signatory and that we expect that the next month and a half to two Chamber of Commerce of Serbia will also get the right to issue certified electronic signatures. We're also in agreement with the Ministry of the Interior that a new ID card with the chip becomes the holder of a certified electronic signature for citizens. This will lead to higher competition, lower prices and improved conditions for obtaining certified signatures for all interested in obtaining them. I would also like to inform the MPs and the Assembly that about two weeks ago, an inter-minor working group has been set up to amend and supplement the Administrative Procedure Act, the Office Business Regulation and the Government's Rules of Procedure and to include in them all what is provided for by the law on the electronic document we are discussing today, in order to allow for the smooth flow of electronic documentation in all public administration institutions. On the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts, which has been discussed here several times, I would like to say that the first objective of our ministry is to fully respect the law and, therefore, we may have put on a somewhat longer deadline than it would be, precisely with a desire to bring all sublegal acts within the foreseen deadline. In the previous presentation, I said that in the jurisdiction of our ministry there are several regulatory gaps that have arisen precisely because there has been no body establishment within the scheduled time period, whether there is a proper regulation, and that this leads to major market disturbances. That's exactly why we wanted to put a deadline in which, in any case, the envisaged sublegal act could be passed. Finally, I would like to say that, apart from the adoption of strategies and laws in our area of competence and what is the first task of the Ministry, our ministry also has intensive co-operation with other authorities, so that the laws are brought to life in practice and that their reason for existence is justified by the practice that exists, above all, in the institutions of the state, but also beyond. So far, together with the Agency for Business Registers, the National Bank of Serbia and the Banks Association, we have worked to establish procedures used by certified electronic signatures that enable the e-service level to be raised, which, above all, are offered by the economy at the moment, but our aim is to also be the effect of the measures for the introduction of electronic services to be offered to citizens. In the past six months, we have also worked intensively with local self-governments and based on a survey conducted in December and January, which all local self-governments in Serbia responded to, recorded the state of information technologies, electronic services offered in local self-government in Serbia. So far we have succeeded, for those local self-governments who did not even have an Internet presentation that would contain the basic information needed for citizens and businesses about what services local self-government, contact, details and working time, addresses, forms, to at least make it the most vulnerable local self-government in Serbia. By the end of this month, two rounds of training will be held for those involved in information technologies in local self-government and this is a process that will continue uninterrupted until the end of the government's term, and then, of course, someone else will decide. Our goal is, in any case, to bring the information society back to life and to establish a high level of electronic services for citizens and businesses, to improve the quality of life of citizens, to facilitate business conditions for the economy and that we can all, with much less time, effort and cost, use services, above all, state administrations and then commercial services on an electronic basis. To the very end, I would like to say that our ministry absolutely supports the introduction of electronic sessions, not only in the government, where it started yesterday, but also in the Assembly, and as we have offered our good services to all other institutions in Serbia, so we also offer them to the Serbian Assembly for the process of introducing electronic services and electronic communications into our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22152	On behalf of the National Assembly, I can return that the National Assembly will use services and all that, in our humble opinion, should have happened first in the Assembly, which is electronic equipment for MPs and electronic sessions. It happened in government meetings by accident, but that mistake will be corrected. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) If you don't, I'll close the search in principle. I am informing the National Assembly, and on the basis of Article 85 of Section 5, that we will be working after 18 hours today, in the afternoon section, by discussing a point that is on the agenda at that time. I'm setting a break to 15 hours and 20 minutes. Thank you. [[After break – 15.20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON REGION DURING (separation) One notice before the beginning. The minority parliamentary group has authorised MP Riza Halimi as an authorised representative to discuss the details of the regional development law. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dragan Stevanović, Aleksandar Martinović, Marina Ragus, Zoran Nikolić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Slobodan Samardžić, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Aćimović, Elena Božan-Taljan, Milan Vjevinović, Lidija Vukić, Jadranka Vuković, Slobodan Vuković, Nenad Popović, Momcilo Duvnjak, Branimir Đukić, Srboljub Živanovic, Nikola Žutić, Nataša Jožanović, Petar Žačanović, Radažan Žažanović, Radažan Žažanović, Radažažar Kragović, Milomir Kragović, Milomir Krstinović, Tomoslav Ljubinović, Tomoslav Ljubinović, Veslav Ljuvić, Vesna Marić, Vešna Marić, Dužan Marić, Mom Marić, Mom Marković, Mom Marković, Mom Žović, Možjan Žović, Slažjan Žjanović, Šjanjan Žjanjan Žjanić, Zažanović, Mir, Mir, Vlajan Žjanović, Vlajan Žjavić, Vlajan Žjavić, Mirjavić, Radjavić, Vla, Mirjavić, Radjan Mojavić, Radjan. National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic, by written means, withdrew the amendment they submitted together to Article 44. It's a bill of law. I remind the MPs that the total time available for discussion is in particular five hours for the parliamentary groups, with 15 minutes each for the presidents of parliamentary groups or authorised representatives and two minutes is available to each of the applicants. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Currently, a press report has not been delivered to the National Assembly, or to you, the MPs, on the benches, or the Government’s opinion on the amendments submitted. The government's opinion on the amendments to the bill came to the Assembly, currently in the press. The information I have from the press service is that the total circulation will be available to the MPs by 5:00. If you don't want to discuss the amendments by that time, can I set a break and continue the session at 5:00? Are we in agreement? Yeah. In that case, I shall set a break and continue the session at 17 hours, when printed material will be delivered to the MPs, the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate, I have in some way presented and presented the position of the SRS when it comes to this law, and I have said that we will provide for our amendments to delete all members of this law. This is, above all, our political position in relation to this concept of law and concept that this government proposes for a balanced, balanced regional development. Our view is that this, in its essence, is not a concept for a balanced regional development, but rather a concept of Serbia's regionalisation. This is a concept that will create that in the time ahead, and through the constitutional changes that the government is announcing, Serbia gets not economic, or statistical regions, but administrative regions, which will have legal and administrative subjectivity. We believe that no amendment can change the essence of this law, and that is why we have proposed that both the basic provisions and everything this law implies be deleted. We said in the principle of debate that the essence and importance of the law, as well as the fact that the SRS fully understands the need for balanced development of the entire territory, i.e. the whole of Serbia, implies defining this concept on completely different economic and political principles. When you look at the amendments they have submitted, that is to say by MPs who will be participating in the work today, which belongs to the opposition, it is indeed acceptable to see a number of amendments that are objectively correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22156	It's two minutes. Are you using the time of an authorised representative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22157	Yes, yes, time as a representative of the Parliament Group. The amendments apply to certain matters that need to be paid attention. These are, above all, amendments relating to an area which, in terms of development, defines and covers environmental protection, potential environmental risks, national authority, their ability to conclude contracts, or services under contract, and so-called, then, the status of the Agency for Economic Registers, the way the law provides. There are also a number of amendments that would be acceptable; to accept these amendments, in some ways, means to accept and justify participation in this whole story. We really believe that this law has at least an economic intention, economic intensity, the intensity that Serbia is developing balancedly in the perspective. In principle, it all comes down to a political message defined in Article 5 of this Law, which is the definition of the region, seven regions, which I repeat, through the constitutional changes that you are announcing, that they are transformed not into statistical, or administrative regions, but into regions that have legal subjectivity. There are a number of members here and things that can objectively be defined as acceptable and through them, the way they are defined, can indeed be recognized as how these things regulate and define the basic act in this country, which is the Constitution. But then you move on, and you come across the members and provisions of this law that are absolutely contrary to the Constitution. That is what we said in the principle debate, and we will say today, in the debate on details, specifically refer to individual solutions, i.e. the provisions of these members, that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise them. In Article 2, point 8, a member who speaks of the objectives of encouraging regional development is said to "better use of domestic natural resources and goods, as well as foreign resources, at the republican, regional, regional and local level". The constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know the category of region where it mentioned the category of region, it mentioned exclusively in geographical terms, not in political terms. It is impossible to fix this with any amendment or change, because you would not accept the removal of this from the law, and the political message and the political background of this whole story is very clear and everyone is talking about it today, both in power, and in opposition, and the professional public, and the political public, and the neutral public, if I can call it that. In all of this, someone recognizes certain intentions in perspective. It is impossible to declare constitutional changes with one law. How has the interest in defining the regions and regional division of Serbia not been recognised in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 2006? As far as I know, G17 plus was involved in that referendum campaign. One party did not participate in the adoption of that constitution. The general political consensus was reached. We are really interested – what happened in the meantime, so that in the majority of the assembly majority, the opinion that Serbia must and should be divided into regions? In its essence, this is a law that defines Serbia's regionalisation. You've been doing some of those other things, which are supposed to be the essence and measure of this law. It would be acceptable for us to define regions as statistical regions, but which do not involve legislation in this way, and at least constitutional changes. That's what I said in the principle debate. The countries you referred to as examples do not have regions in their constitution, but they have statistical regions, to which regional development agencies are linked. For us regional development agencies could represent what you're saying should be district associations. It could somehow find a way to make it, but that the state has a very small influence on all of this, except for support. You, at the level of one region that the Constitution does not know, create, exactly as you said, horizontal and vertical preconditions, that is, the capacity for these regions to get a completely different status through constitutional changes. You're preparing a completely different purpose for them, which is very bad. It is true that the constitutional solutions of individual states recognise regions, but we do not have a political climate, an economic climate, or any other climate to accept these modes and models and try to realise in Serbia. It's very interesting that this story opens when tensions grow in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Was this a model to overcome and overcome the differences between aspirations and ambitions coming from Vojvodina, within the congregation's majority? Is this a model? Why didn't you first try to change the Constitution, define what regions are, and then open up the story of even regional development? In Article 2, you say – the development of a knowledge-based economy, innovation, modern scientific and technological achievements and management organisation. I am relying on a sentence that I just said, what process, when things are mentioned in this point, Serbia, only in time, should pass to create preconditions for, in this way, respecting and governing these principles, to deal with even regional development? Now, through these points of 4 or 8, we're going to make an impression that we're doing some serious work. A few months ago, you denied the Ministry of Science and Technology how much money through budget rebalance? How many employees do you have at the Ministry of Regional Development? Over 700. Am I right? I didn't? Then you're lying, someone was lying about budget rebalancing, when he concluded with February that it was number 713. Someone made a mistake here. I don't know, you've deceived our MPs, and I'm a public man now. Someone wasn't responsible in the government, but you have 55 at the Ministry of Science and Technology. Minister Dinkic said that day that we were decapitated in the context of scientific and human resources in order to deal seriously with equal regional development. It's got to stand here to get the impression that we're doing some serious work. Now we'll administratively define regional development agencies. At regional level, there must be only one development agency, there can be no more. Later we'll talk about the way, who's going to make them, who's going to make up regional bodies, etc. But a few months ago, you did everything you could to destroy the chamber system. We'll discuss it later. What members of some other associations will be in bodies at the level of the region, if you have defined and intended by the Chamber of Commerce Act to be established at the level of one board of directors, five or ten, say, quite anyway, a hundred chambers of commerce? You'll make the forest of everything. It doesn't matter to you at all. You're not essentially interested in taking this seriously. You don't need this for even regional development, you need this for regionalization. It seems to me that's how you try to solve two key problems, which are imposed and put on your back, according to the European model, which will, in a political sense, be very painful. These are the problems of Vojvodina and KIM. That's what I said, and we're going to talk through the laws today and through the members who refer to it, how, wherever you could, or wherever it should be to someone's problem, kiM, as a subject of regionalization, you went around. You also mention funds, the budgets of autonomous provinces, representatives of autonomous provinces, but in the process, it all comes down to the AP Vojvodina, or the city of Belgrade, afterwards. There's no KIM representative. We made that clear, that's where political intentions are recognised. You have declared KIM institutionally from this law, because you are planning and planning, I don't suppose I'd like it to be the ruling majority's strategy, that the regional development of KIM no longer deals with this state. By the way you define and imply Kosovo throughout this story, objectively, this job is entrusted, in a perspective, to someone else. This is an EU model that you have accepted, but, I repeat, as one, in a political sense, still unstable, dreary and unhealthy society and state. You provide opportunities for the regions you plan to start in perspective to create direct jobs and contacts with EU institutions and, under the decentralisation firm of the Serbian state, this fully fits into the concepts of centralisation of the European continent, the centralisation carried out by the European administration. In some ways, it might not be acceptable for this country to have a national concept, that this state knows what it wants, that the state knows and recognizes the interests and where it sees itself. We're traveling like a ship without the helms, and the corporals and the captains, unfortunately, and the consequences of all that we have to endure. We need to comment on the principles. I repeat again, there are also positive things, but they fall into the shadow of everything that you predict through this law, from the principle of integrity, which, by my deep conviction, at the beginning of Article 3, is a mockery. You insist on the principle of integrity through a law that, in a territorial sense, will create preconditions for the separation of the state and the collapse of that same integrity. Then, after that, you put on a principle that is really acceptable – syhnorisation. This principle and through this principle, you recognise constitutional provisions, namely how the Constitution defines the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. You consider this to be integration, coordination and complementarity and coordination of regulatory, government institutions and activities and autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, other institutions and organisations and international partners in the planning and implementation of regional development policy. This is said in the spirit of the Constitution and we cannot find any objection to it, but many other things truly deserve not to be accepted and every conviction and our suspicion of your intentions, defined through this law. Imagine, the government of the Republic of Serbia is talking about the principle of solidarity and equal opportunities for all! They define the principle of solidarity, and in reason they insist on one-to-seven and one-to-fifth differences...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22158	People's MP, the time of the authorised representative has been used, do you want to use the time of the MP's group as well? Here, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22159	... Here, I'll finish now, I'll be right back. One to seven, or one to 15, for municipalities. Did anyone say who was responsible for something like that? I can understand the legacy of the 1990s, here, I accept, but did someone, explaining this law, or did one of the representatives of the congregation's majority say one sentence as to why, why so? This is where representatives of the congregation's majority, praising this law, talked about civilizational fluids. I would very much like to take them to the Shop, in which also those in power, those who defend the law and those who have defended the law at the time, to see European and civilizational liquids, to recognize the awareness of even regional development in their local leadership, to see how there is an ordinary act or paper obtained, birth certificate, or birth certificate. You sell them fog on civilization principles and European standards, but it's not just in southern Serbia. Go to Sjenica, to the Zajčar region, wherever you want, in the pine area, and you will meet such opportunities wherever you look at Serbia, but for those of you who define all of this, Serbia is, unfortunately, up to Mladenovac, Serbia is the Belgrade region. That's what we'll talk about when we talk about percentages, how they define developed and undeveloped, and the banalization you've made, how you've hidden the drastic differences through the percentages you've predicted. We'll talk about that later. The SRS has submitted all amendments to this and predicted that this should be deleted. We think it best to withdraw this law from the procedure, to make a new law, in line with the Constitution that exists, because we believe that the Constitution, in every sense, defines both administrative and any other preconditions and norms that Serbia and the executive authority in Serbia are dealing in an adequate way with equal regional development. This has so far been shown by many district-level municipalities, through their engagement in the past period, not entering into which political option the leadership of these municipalities belongs, but they have indeed shown that it can be done with both existing and legal and any other regulation. So once again, I say, it would be essential to withdraw this law from the procedure and make one that will arise in the atmosphere of political consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22160	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 64 minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 1, by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22161	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as my colleague Dragan Stevanovic said, this bill is unacceptable for the SRS, for national-political and economic reasons. First of all, it is clear, no matter how much Mladjan Dinkic has tried to highlight all the benefits of this law, that this law is only an introduction to something much more delicate that awaits Serbia and Serbian citizens, which is its division into some units that would not only be statistical regions, as he says, but would be administrative and territorial units to legal subjectivity. In other words, this bill, if you vote it, will lead to a comprehensive change in Serbia's constitutional, political and legal arrangements. The bill, from the point of view of the current constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is completely unconstitutional, so the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know any regions, in any sense, as either statistical or administrative or political. When the Constitution talks about regional development, it just wants to say that every part of the Republic of Serbia, every municipality, every city, every area, but in a geographical sense, should be equally economically developed. As for the economic disadvantages of this bill, it is only enough to see that Vojvodina is treated as one region. Anyone who lives in Vojvodina, and you will surely agree with me, Mrs. Comic, knows that not every part of Vojvodina is equally developed and that not every part of Vojvodina has the same problems. It is a completely different situation in the municipalities of Srem, which are gravitating Belgrade and, for example, municipalities in Central Banat, in northern Baka, etc. It is totally unsavory, in economic terms, to treat the entire territory of the AP Vojvodina as one statistical region, when everyone knows that various areas in Vojvodina, Srem, Banat and Baka are differently economically developed and even that within one area you have different degrees of economic development. Go to the municipality of Žitište or some other municipalities in Vojvodina and you will see a real wasteland, and Vojvodina is treated as one region. But you do not treat Vojvodina as one region by chance, but because Vojvodina needs to become something much more than a statistical region tomorrow, it should become a unit that needs to get status within the Republic of Serbia. If you cared about Vojvodina as a statistical region and if all parts of the Vojvodina were to develop equally, then, ladies and gentlemen, you would divide Vojvodina into at least three statistical regions – Srem, Banat and Backo. If you were really going to commit yourself seriously to the economic development of every part of Vojvodina, then you could, for example, divide Banat – into southern Banat, central Banat and northern Banat. You might want to split the base up into the northern Bacon, the western Bacon, the southern Bacon. You could also divide happiness into two parts – eastern Srem and western Srem. They are not equally developed today in Šid municipality, which is on the border with Croatia, and, for example, the Municipality of Pećinci. You treat the entire Vojvodina as a statistical region so that tomorrow you have a basis to say – now Vojvodina is no longer just an ordinary autonomous province within Serbia, it will get a statute, and the statute is a second name for the constitution of the future Republic of Vojvodina. That's what your coalition partner LSV isn't hiding. In 2003, Mr. Nenad Canak went public with a document called the Duke's Basic Law Draft. A man does not hide that his ultimate goal is for Vojvodina to win the constitution, not the statute. The basic law is a name used in the Federal Republic of Germany for the constitution. So, this statute, which here announces that it will enter the assembly procedure of the Serbian Parliament, is, in fact, the mini constitution of some half-state of Vojvodina, but who guarantees that tomorrow or the day after that you will not turn that half-state into a true state. Already with the existing draft statutes, which passed the Vojvodina Assembly procedure, you have solutions that do not exist anywhere in Europe, that an AP has its own government, so that the government can conclude contracts, so that the Vojvodina Assembly can ratify international contracts, so that the Vojvodina Assembly makes any decisions that have the power of law on the territory. Find me a country that is regionally decorated in Europe that has such solutions. Find an example. Here, in Italy, in Spain, in Belgium, where does it have the statute, as a normative act of an autonomous province, have preamble, introduction, historical and political introduction to the normative part of the text? Well, it's only in the Constitution. Only one who does not want to see, does not see that the ultimate intention behind this is to divide Serbia, that Serbia is no more, to turn into a set of regions and then, over time, the link between the region is weak and that Serbia is not on the political map of Europe for about 50 or 100 years at all. Since you like to honor the SRS with some conspiracy theory, some schizophrenia and paranoia, I just want to remind you of some historical facts. Lord Karington's 1991 plan, which was adopted at The Hague conference on the former Yugoslavia in autumn 1991, had two annexes. One annex refers to KIM, and another annex refers to Vojvodina. If you look at the development of events on the premises of the former Yugoslavia from 1991 to today, you can come to a simple conclusion – are the SRS and Vojislav Seselj inventing when they say that the West really wants to ruin and divide Serbia, or is it a painful, sad, tragic and unpleasant, but fact, a historical fact? How is it possible that in 2006, no one was talking about how the Constitution of Serbia should have regions, that Serbia should be divided into seven regions? How did it not occur to anyone in 2006 that regions should not only be statistical, but also administrative and political units, and then, three years after the adoption of the Constitution, you invent a hole in potsy and say – well, you know, that's the EU's achievement. If that is the EU's achievement, I guess you knew about that in 2006. When did you learn that regionalisation and division of Serbia into seven regions is a condition for Serbia's entry into the EU? Did you find out two months ago, three months, six months ago? When did you learn that Serbia should be divided into seven regions and that without that division, there is no entry into the EU of Serbia? What's funny about you, as a ruling coalition, is one simple thing. Every day you invent some new conditions that are necessary for Serbia to join the EU. As a new day takes place, Serbia needs to do something else to join the EU, and you do not want to admit a simple thing – you are an obstacle to any integration at international level, both with the EU and with Russia. They won't, because they know you. A few days ago, you had an official statement from the Council of Ministers of the EU and the European Commission that Serbia cannot possibly count on joining the EU, because it is an extremely high level of production in all state structures and that, after the corruption rate, Serbia is one of the highest places in Europe, and until you resolve the issue of corruption, do not think about any entry into the EU. You won't admit it. You say -- Serbia is the hostage of Ratko Mladic, Serbia is the hostage of Goran Hadzic, Serbia is the hostage of the SRS. No, Serbia has been a hostage to you who have exercised power in Serbia, in various ways, since 2000. You've gone completely wrong. Instead of making a strong, institutionally strong state, legally regulated, in which there will be no crime and corruption, in which there will be no case of a full-fledged newspaper of various affairs involving the party's ministers, which proposes this law, in which it will not be possible that when you are in power to speak one thing, and when you are arrested for crime, then you speak something else entirely. Goran Knezevic, while president of the Zrenjanin municipality, while senior DS official, everything was great in the DS, fair, capable, advocated European values. When a man liked prison, he told the opposite story. He says, "What kind of firm in Black Treva helped Boris Tadic's campaign?" What kind of privates give 15,000 and 20,000 dinars? The NIS and the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, when needed, were drawn money in sacks. He says -- there's cash in Boris Tadic's safe. Who needs it? Should a councilman be bought in Serbia? Let's buy it? Should someone kidnap in Serbia to get DS to power? Let's kidnap him. Does anyone need to get greased?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22162	People's MP, link all of this to the contents of your amendment, so we don't have to quote a member of the 106 that binds me and you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22163	I'm trying, Mrs. Comic, I'm a man of humble mind, I can't do better, and I can't do any different. I realized that this bill had something to do with the state of affairs in Serbia, not only regional development, but also with the degree of crime, corruption, compliance with current rules, the Constitution of Serbia, etc. I am trying to point out that there is no economic development of Serbia in the situation where you have certain ministers who openly rob their people, when you have a situation where a senior DS official tells you that there has been crime and corruption in all previous DS campaigns, which seems to have a wallpaper on the introduction of Serbia into the EU. No one can introduce Serbia into the EU, but DS and G 17 plus. I'm talking about how things are on the ground and what your people say about how you behave, I don't mean you, Mrs. Comic, who you have, apparently, some monopoly on that you're just God-given for some kind of integration on the international level, and that's not true. Serbia should first become a state in the most elementary sense, that the laws apply equally to everything. The state of Serbia is not such a state. Today the laws are applied depending on whether you belong to this or that political party. If you are a member of a ruling party, there are no laws for you, you can do what you want, you can take money from a state or province budget, you can pave the way for streets and roads, as you do today in Vojvodina, without a tender, you can direct the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund to transfer money directly to the contractor, anything you can, but only if you are in power. If you are, eventually, a member of some opposition party, don't give the god of the SRS, then there's nothing you can do, then you have no elemental rights that gives you the Constitution. That's what this is about. Who can trust you to be one step closer to the EU with this bill of law? I can't believe you, if for nothing else, then for what I heard from that same Goran Knezevic. I was appalled by the way that the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund was used in favour of DS and G 17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22164	National MP, I warn you to contact Goran Knezevic and the Fund with the content of your amendment, which reads – The title above article 1 is deleted, as well as all your views on selective application of justice. I warn you that you are required to speak about what is on the agenda, and I am obliged to remind you of that. So, a warning before you force me to give you measures for disrespecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22165	Mrs. Komic, I've always been a supporter of your way of leading these sessions and I'm sure you'll understand that what I'm saying and how it has to do with the bill. According to this bill, one of these statistical regions is the AP Vojvodina. I tried to explain that it is not realistic that Vojvodina is treated as one statistical region, in conditions where you have at least three geographical and historical areas within Vojvodina and when everyone living in Vojvodina knows that not every part of Vojvodina is equally developed. I was talking about the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund for one reason only. Since its founding in 2006, the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund has served nothing but to blow into DS and G17 plus sails ahead of the election. You have cases that in Vojvodina, streets and roads are paved by temperatures below zero, by mud. Of course, asphalting without a tender, without any competition, it's already a generalized attitude. You have cases that the streets and roads are paved on election day, and then, when the elections are over, the road will fail in seven days because it's been done sloppyly. You have a situation that DS officials in Vojvodina are practically the masters of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. You have a situation where money from that fund is given depending on whether "our" people or "their" people, of course, this is what I'm saying persuasively, in power in this or that duchy community, so if our people are in power, there's money for that municipality, if our people aren't in power in that community, these people don't need anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22166	National MP, last warning, please bring into any connection between our people and your people in power and the content of your amendment, which reads, is deleted. After this last warning, you leave me no choice but to give you measures, in order to insist that you violate Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask all other MPs not to receive and that, if not, they read Article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – the obligation to speak about the subject on the agenda. The debate is on the agenda in particular, and MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to use the time of the parliamentary group, but speaking of the topic on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22167	Okay, Mrs. Comic, don't take this for granted and don't mind me, but I have the impression that someone made you angry, so I'm going to stop my exposure now, so I'm going to continue something later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22168	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 50 minutes. On the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he wants to speak to the MP Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22169	I refer to Articles 31 and 27. Rules of Procedure. As Vice-President of the Assembly, I would like to draw attention to you as chairman – yes, MPs have to stick to the topic on the agenda, however, by saying what law Mr. MP is talking about, what amendment he is talking about, he is sticking to the subject. The way he's going to put it, it's absolutely his personal matter. As far as I can remember, you were always saying - style is human, man is style. It's his way of explaining the topic that's on the agenda. Therefore, you as chairman have no right to enter the essence of his exposure. I was forced to draw your attention to how to lead this congregation. Please don't insult the dignity of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22170	There is no breach of Article 27 or Article 31. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has been asked to stick to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The chairman is obliged to listen carefully to what the MPs are saying and, at the moment the MP leaves the topic so much that it is clear that he is not holding the agenda, that he may most kindly ask him to return to the topic, to bring it back to the relationship, which was done three times, with the full understanding of MP Aleksandr Martinovic. So, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but there is abuse of the Rules of Procedure, or the right to a word by the MP Judita Popovic, since there is no provision in the members you have quoted that you later called upon, as if you wanted to explain it, so I suggest you read both Article 27 and Article 31. Neither of those two members can make any argument that you have tried to give – that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22171	I appeal to article 101, which refers to the fact that the MP does not have the right to be offensive about other MPs or other parliamentary groups or political parties. I don't think you're right when you claim that the content of what someone is saying when they discuss the amendment is not a possible matter of breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, what I'm saying is that here, of course, as usual, a series of false accusations against DS and its president. I wouldn't mind explaining the possible reasons, but I just want to tell you that your fixation on the president was understandable while you put your opponent on the agenda, but I remind you that it's over and that you might now be able to deal with the laws that are on the agenda. It's not a presidential campaign, nor do you have a presidential candidate to oppose the president.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22172	There's no damage to article 101. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has not openly violated any of the provisions that oblige us to behave in a courteous manner. If he had, I would have warned him it would be the basis for a warning. The warning I gave him referred to a persistent violation of Article 106, i.e. refusing to link the content of my exposure to the subject which is on the agenda, and the subject is the debate in particular and the amendment – the title above Article 1 is deleted. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22173	I mean, Madam Chairman, that you insult the Rules of Procedure by misusing both your rights and interpretation of your obligation under this Rules of Procedure. Your obligation from this Rules of Procedure is to provide an explanation after the statement of objection to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been broken, and you instead hold the tyrants, which are often longer than the time foreseen for MPs to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not your first time. If someone points out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you may be able to answer whether or not there have been injuries in about 15-20 seconds, not to do that in 45 seconds, a minute, a minute and 15 seconds, as you do in the event of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Please, if you can concentrate on doing so in the future; I would be very grateful to you as a MP who participates in this discussion, in this debate, and wants it to go in the best order possible. The other thing is more suggestions, not an objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you'll bear it. I didn't hear you here, at least for college reasons, draw attention to when you think you're working tonight and what are the conditions for doing a television broadcast?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22174	People's MP, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you want to repeat which article you quoted, I will be grateful to you, since I failed to hear in the first sentence you quoted. If you haven't, then together we've done a violation of Article 100(1) and giving the right to a word. The explanation for the non-infringement will be given, as it has been given, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I warn all of us not to abuse the rights that allow us to do Article 100. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22175	I thank you, although I think I should have gotten my word back a long time ago, but it's yours to choose who you're going to give your word to and what order. I would just like to point out to you that Mrs. Kolundjia received the word asking for a replica and that she could not possibly have had the advantage over the other MPs who advertised the Rules of Procedure. You'll probably agree to that. Article 101 applies exclusively to the right of replica, but you gave her your word before the other colleagues. For you, it should be symptomatic, Mrs Comic, that MPs of different parliamentary groups want to warn you that on several occasions, in violation of Article 106, you have disrupted the MP of the people, Master Alexander Martinovic. You will allow, just the member of the law he spoke of and the title above that article, which bears the name – The subject of the law, to allow him to elaborate this wide-ranging issue, in accordance with the SRS' position under this law. You really allow yourself a lot, that's what you do all the time and what doesn't surprise us, but you send a message to the public that in a principled way, in fact, you represent the totalitarianity of the regime that you represent. I don't think it can be a plus for you or the party you represent, and that it should be from that place, if someone has already given it to you, to allow the MPs to do their job, not to disturb them. You will, of course, say – Article 106 is not broken, but you are the only one who has broken this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22176	Thank you. If there was a way to give you an explanation, I would, but you misused the right to receive a word, you did not quote which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. Please do not abuse the right of Article 100(1). The rules apply equally to all and the rules will be applied equally to all, both in Articles 103 and 106. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 103 and 106, has been asked several times to respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure and I think neither he nor I have committed any violation of any provisions of the Rules of Procedure. If we did, he'd have a sentence, and I'd have to say I broke a provision. Since that wasn't the case, I'm asking all of you to come back and discuss it on the agenda. National MP Zoran Ostojić wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22177	I advertised the injury, Mrs. Komic, article 27, at the time of MP Martinovic's speech. Every MP must adhere to the agenda. The court of law on whether or not she's sticking to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22178	National MP, article 27, has already been expressed as an objection by the People's Parliament of Judita Popovic. Please read the whole article carefully, because we are not trying to force any of us to violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure, or to be allowed to violate them. Thank you. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. No, I'm sorry, I'm looking at the electronic system. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wanted a replica. Here you are, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really sorry this exposure has caused so much anxiety in the ranks of the ruling coalition. Mrs. Kolundjia, I really had no intention of insulting you personally or the party you belong to. I merely presented the facts, i.e. I reproduced what the former president of Zrenjanin municipality, a man who was the most successful president of the municipality in Serbia until a few months ago, to whom you awarded various plaques and awards, and who is now the biggest criminal in Serbia. So, if it's not true what I said, then it's not my fault, but it seems that Mr. Knezevic did not give an accurate and adequate statement. Personally, I think it is true and that it largely casts a shadow on your statements that you have the best intentions when it comes to this bill. As for the presidential elections and candidates for the president of the state, we, the Serbian Radicals, happened with the presidential elections that happened to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1941. Then Yugoslavia had Germany in front of it and Germany behind it. Turns out, now time has shown that the Democratic Party both had two candidates for the president of the Republic of Serbia in 2004 and 2008. But your suggestion is good, I accept it, the future SRS candidate for president of the Republic of Serbia will most likely be a defiant Serbian hero, Dr Vojislav Seselj, the winner of The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22180	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22181	You've hurt both Article 27 and Article 100, but you have to listen to the explanation, so you know what kind of injury I'm pointing to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22182	People's MP, he can't write any clearer than he says in article 100, what is the basis for getting the right to speak. Article 27, third time, he can't. Thank you. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22183	If there's anyone else to hurt the Rules of Procedure, I'm asking for the right to replication. (National MP Milos Aligrudic approached the speaker. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22184	People's MP, would you be so kind as to take your place? People's MP, are you asking for the right to reply to the presentation of MP Alexander Martinovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22185	On the basis of Article 101, I seek the right to reply, because Mr. Martinovic dared to say that I, as an SRS candidate, was the DS candidate in the presidential elections. Mr. Martinovic, shame on you. I was your candidate. If you did something in the campaign, that president, you did it for me, as an SRS candidate. It didn't occur to you to remind me that I was an DS candidate. Now that you've collapsed to two million and 100,000 votes, you claim I was an DS candidate? Do something in your life, Mr. Martinovic. Run somewhere in your life, Mr. Martinovic, point out your name, so let the citizens of Serbia, or the citizens of your local community vote for you. Don't point out Vojislav Seselj any more. It was now called the list – SRS-Vojislav Seselj, the first on the list – Vojislav Seselj. Where are you? Find someone else. Hold your heart, hold your courage, choose the party president to lead you. You can see you're disappearing slowly. Mr. Martinovic, you're a young man to be so corrupt. A lot of you are ruining the environment you're in. I deserve to be punished by the chairman, but I'm glad I told you that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22186	National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22187	I believe that you have injured Article 104, because in the position of the 2nd member, the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. You, Mrs. Komic, as chairman, do not address me with respect. When I asked for a word, I wanted to tell you next. I wanted to explain that it doesn't matter what someone calls formally on the same member of the Rules of Procedure if they are different and different interpretations of the injury of a certain member of the Rules of Procedure. Then you have to listen to the argument, because if I don't want to give the same explanation, which is why I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure, it's not the same injury. The injury is different. Article 100(4) states that the MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, and to explain what the infringement consists of, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. If you're mechanically interpreting this provision by saying that someone has to say the number of that member, believe me, you're wrong. Anyone who's finished law school in this country will agree with me. If, unequivocally from my presentation, it follows which provision I call upon during my presentation, you cannot hold onto the formal hook, by claiming to me and other MPs that we did not specify a member. If my exposure made it unclear which member of my injury, or calling for an injury, you'd have the right to say so. One of the only members in this law concerning the conduct of the Chairman in the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is Article 100. If you don't know that, I'll teach you that now. It is Article 100, Mrs Comic, so when you learn it and you realize that others understand it, who know the rules of conduct in this house, then you will not report with such objections and such answers to the MPs, who insult the MPs of the people and who mean no respect for the conversors.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22188	People's MP, of course there are no injuries to Article 104, and I haven't spoken to any of the MPs, nor have I treated anyone else here except with due respect. The application of the Rules of Procedure implies the knowledge of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and the right to obtain word based on Article 100 implies knowledge of what and how to explain the word to be kept and there would be no warning that the right to the given word is misused. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to thank Mr Tomislav Nikolic for the fine words he has given me, and I really must express my surprise that what I said is not true and he recognized himself in it. I was talking about two DS candidates in the election for the President of the Republic. As far as I know, both 2004 and 2008, more than two candidates for the president of the country participated. I simply don't understand if my words are false, why did Mr Tomislav Nikolic find himself called?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22190	Does anyone else want a word in the discussion in the details of the amendment? Minister Verica Kalanovic. I'm just asking you to register. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22191	Your Honor, I owe a few answers to your objections to the law. We talked about the law in principle, but once again I want to repeat that the draft law on regional development in the long-term, comprehensive, system-based way covers a very complex area, which is regional development, and in one part – a more balanced regional development. The law on regional development, since it covers one process that will last for many years, the entire territory of Serbia, which covers a complex process, is given as 'top'. You talked about a few things, prejudging solutions, talking about maps, art. 4 and 5, and maps are yet to be adopted and proposed by the competent institutions. You were talking about that Vojvodina was defined as one statistical territory, which is not true, measuring with one and the other, measuring NUTS methodology, as NUTS 2, Vojvodina will probably be defined as one statistical region, and according to NUTS 3 the methodology will be defined with a larger number of regions. These things have not yet been adopted and the cards have not yet been drawn, although it is perfectly natural that certain criteria exist. Furthermore, you were saying that there are no precise indicators for the classification of the region, units of local self-government according to the degree of development. That's absolutely true. The moment he ceased to apply as a criterion for gross social product per capita, by deleculating VAT, or by introducing VAT, it was clear that we would no longer be able to measure the degree of development of the municipality or the wider territory by the level of wages and pensions, or by gross social product and by the head of the population. This law just defines how we will measure the level of development of the region, i.e. the area, and how we will be able to monitor them in a long-term period, how we will be able to see whether the measures and incentives foreseen by the Government in the legal direction, whether the development of small or medium-sized enterprises has given certain results, or whether these measures must be corrected. Of course, it is clear that in the last few decades these indicators have not been compared, measured, and that the measures that have been directed, mainly, ad hoc towards undeveloped areas, have not produced adequate results. In the end, I want to say that this law, with careful reading, will provide many answers to those questions that you have asked. I would like to point out once again that it is a "kroat" and that some twenty sublegal acts will fully identify all the issues raised, related to territorial division, classification, measurement of the degree of development, programmes envisaged, the way institutions operate, for policies to be conducted, and of course this is all one package that will edit this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22192	Before I give the right to the replica of Parliamentarian Aleksandr Martinovic, just to remind that the legislator, or the proposing representative, has the right to speak for two minutes about the amendment or more, so that the total time used by the proposing representative or the promoter, on the basis of Article 143(7), cannot pass three hours. Minister Verica Kalanovic has spent four and a half minutes, four minutes and 30 seconds so far. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the impression, Mrs. Kalanovic, that you and I are not talking about the same bill. The bill I read read read reads in Article 5: "For the purpose of encouraging regional development, the following regions are determined: 1) Region of Vojvodina". Paragraph 2 reads: "The government, on a proposal from the authorities responsible for statistics affairs, determines the areas that make up the regions of the Article 1 position." I wasn't talking about areas. I was talking about Vojvodina being one region. That is what you wrote, that is, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, in Article 5. It's a bill of law. I didn't say anything except what it says in the bill. You have now, Mrs. Kalanovic, used one word that, believe me, seems quite frightening to me. You used the word "maps." You, Mrs. Kalanovic, are older than me. Well, do you know how evil began at the premises of the former Yugoslavia? By some children in Ljubljana, allegedly children, allegedly playing with maps on which to break the former Yugoslavia. Evil began when they began to play in the circulation of various maps. Now you're starting again with that story - maps. How long? There is an aphorist who wrote in the 1960s an aphorism that, unfortunately, now turns out to be living truth -- how small Serbia should be if it wasn't big. You guys have divided Serbia into seven regions. Now you say -- these are statistical regions, but obviously, when you use words -- maps, borders, units, that you intend to move on, that this is not the end. You divided Serbia into seven regions. Maybe you're not aware of that, Mrs. Kalanovic. I'm convinced you have the best intentions, I'm convinced you're a patriot, as am I, but you know, "the road to hell is paved with the best wishes." The West, some circles in the EU and some circles in the State Department play on our traditional Serbian weakness, which is that we are prone to deobos. This is how you opened Pandora's box. You know what's gonna happen now? Now every region will start to drag itself. Now he who lives in Kickinda will say, "What do I care how the one who lives in Nis lives, let it be good for me in Kickindi, and then it will go further." He who lives in Kickinda will say, "What do I care what it's like for him who lives in Pancheva? There will be nothing left of Serbia, there will be no power to lead a wider national and state policy. Everyone will limit themselves to the limits of their own tower, which you call the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22194	The line on the replica was used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22196	There is, in the discussion of details, still an amendment to the title above Article 1, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Jorgenka Tabakovic has already been in the system, so you get a word after her. After it comes Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22197	Madam President, the right to speak of this amendment is being used by the Parliament Group's time, and I want to ask you a question. You just said that Mrs Kalanovic's response of four and a half minutes is coming up at the time of the three-hour parliamentary group and something. Where did you read that? You said so, maybe you didn't express yourself clearly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22198	Apology for interruption, I said, Article 143 of Section 7, you can consult a stenogram, and I was talking about the promoter and the time available to the promoter. Please listen a little more carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22199	You know what I want to ask you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22200	Just to finish the answer, since there's no need for us to continue to appear on such a topic of misunderstanding. This time does not enter, of course, at the time of your parliamentary group. I was talking about Article 143 of Section 7. I can read it if you don't have a Rules of Procedure on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22201	Don't waste your time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22202	Then you will see that in response to Minister Verica Kalanovic's reply, I said that the proposing's representative has two minutes on the amendment, with the total amount of time the proposaler has at his disposal not being able to pass three hours. This has nothing to do with the time of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to read these elemental things, though, before we go in...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22203	Thank you. It's no problem, I apologize, reading, the problem is monitoring the session and one question. Can I know tonight, as a mother who has three children and has to travel to Novi Sad, as long as we plan to work tonight, given the way we work, reading the Rules of Procedures that we know perfectly, stenograms, explanations, etc.? Could you please answer that question?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22204	To complete the work in the debate on details and amendments to the proposal for a law on regional development. That's my answer to you and that's the decision I made when I told you we'd be working after 18 hours. Given that we have a large number of amendments, I can only give a suggestion to all of us to discuss these amendments, so that the time we spend here is shorter. Thank you. Do you want to continue? (No) The word has Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22205	I just want to say a few things to the remarks that I used the word "map." If we open a Eurostat site, it explicitly stands a map of the region of all countries, of all European countries, and that's something that's common termology. To remind you of one more thing, dear colleague. I remember in 1990 and 1991, the SFRY didn't have regions, so it fell apart. I also know that all European countries have regions and are very and very territorially and economically stable. This law would not be passed in all European countries to treat the issue of secessionism, separation, division. On the contrary, this law is passed for the sake of co-operation, economic growth of the region, raising citizens' standards, economics, joint policy planning in one wider region, joint investments, joint infrastructure projects. These are the objectives of this law, not secessionism at all, not sharing at all, not wars, not killing at all, but the interpretation of this law can be viewed maliciously in every way possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22206	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22207	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Kalanovic, I hope one fact is clear to you, which is that the EU does not treat Serbia in any way like all other countries in Europe. Tell me, is there a country in Europe that before becoming a member of the EU exposed to the NATO Pact bombing? Is there a current EU member state who, before becoming an EU member, imposed the worst possible sanctions imposed in mankind's history? Finally, is there any current EU member who, before becoming an EU member, took part of its state territory and sent it very clear signals that one of the key conditions for joining the EU is direct or indirect, formal or factual, recognition of the independence of one part of its territory? I understand that no one has asked it to Slovenia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, etc., but they are asking Serbia. Mrs Kalanovic, Serbia is in the eyes of the West something specific. It is true that in Slovenia and Hungary, statistical regions could not be the basis for any division of the state, but unfortunately, the EU leads us to a different policy, that is. Did Jelko Kacin, the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia, happen to say that the adoption of the statutes, i.e. the confirmation of Vojvodina's statutes in the Serbian Parliament, is a test of Belgrade's democracy. Have you heard that any European official has made a similar statement when it comes to a region in Slovenia, Hungary, etc.? It's not. It is obvious that the West treats Serbia isolatedly to all other former communist states that have entered the EU, or which are yet to enter. I repeat, I do not claim that you, Mrs Kalanovic, personally want to share Serbia. You encourage, as far as I know, from that central part of Serbia, the uprising, the freedom, etc. I'm afraid this law, if adopted like this, can serve as a basis for something much worse than the introduction of statistical regions. In 1974, when that unfortunate constitution was brought in, could anyone have dreamed that after 20 years, blood would flow through the republics of the former Yugoslavia, so that happened? It's just that I'm done. [[President: Three minutes, replica time used.]] It is that you are, in this way, introducing a small door that can break Serbia's state and territorial unity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22208	Does anyone else report for the amendment to the title above article 1, submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Ragush. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22209	My colleague, also in line with the definition of the SRS under this law, has submitted an amendment and I would only like to say a few words, inspired by Mrs. Minister's story earlier. It's not just about this law, it's a practice that's being repeated here from law to law. I can understand that you are justifying the law to these MPs, because it is in accordance with European standards, that European standards are defined in accordance with European principles. Madam Minister, come on, boast, what European standards for the last nine years have you established in Serbia since you've been in power, so that on the basis of these standards, we recognize that the legislation you bring before us is applicable in Serbia? Is it in line with European standards your project "Fiita", or your story of actions, etc.? You talk, in Europe the laws are like this, but countries are stable and there are no wars or secessionisms. How many EU and European countries, which have defined the concept of regional development in this way, are developing and applying the same concept? How healthy are economic and political conditions? It's about whether you need to recognize whether something useful is for this country or not, and whether in conditions where we have a problem both in KIM and Vojvodina, one law should be passed. Such solutions are present in Europe. Here, answer my question – could we have introduced the concept of equal regional development and the concept of region into legislative matter by bringing it down to statistical regions? Not regions that will have attributes of statehood over time, when you change the Constitution. Therefore, you defend the law with arguments that are loose and which do not stand. Because of the fact that you're doing this, you're going to come up with a goal of developing a country, economically promoting principles of balance and balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22210	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 47 minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22211	Madam Minister, you have decided by this law to confuse all citizens in Serbia. Perhaps it was a desire to confuse the MPs, following what is being done in the National Assembly, we read carefully the drafts of the law. What you've given us, it didn't really work that way on us. The concept of this law, which is mostly referred to in the first article, which we have submitted to the amendment, wants to say the following – is not determined by the Government of Statistical Regions, but by the statistical regions defined by this law and given them names. That's not true, essentially. It's in conflict with what you wrote in other members of the law. Statistical regions, as you said correctly, are not territorial units, are neither administrative units nor have legal subjectivity. What was your wish? Your wish was to determine the names of the regions established by this law, because you set them up by Article 5 for no reason whatsoever, and previously lay down the criteria as they form. You have reduced all the criteria to the identification of some areas from which statistical regions are formed, and regions are determined by this law. You have no reason to. The only reason you did this is to get us to think, which is probably what you want, is your intention, that these regions will statistically represent their map, the culture of the administrative division of Serbia, which we cannot agree on. What's your game? Your game is to get us to talk here about the administrative division, although the subject of this law cannot possibly be an administrative division. This law on the subject has, and should have, an exclusive relationship between the central executive and one of its obligations, which is to ensure a balanced regional development in Serbia. You do it in part, and then you make a political pamphlet out of the text, because you list seven regions, which there is no need. We're conceptually different here. If you had carefully read our amendments, you would have accepted them all and deprived Serbia and the citizens of Serbia of this torment and these completely pointless debates about whether there are administrative regions opening up or whether it's just a statistical economic fact. It's all your fault that you're the promoter. So we decided to change Article 1 and say what should be the subject of this law. It should be an object – a way of determining the region, a degree of underdevelopment, etc., in relation to local self-government units, and further developing the way regional development policies are implemented. You don't do that. Your whole law is bad. We'll talk about that later, for the time being. I think you should accept this amendment. If you do not accept it, the concept on which you remain turns into a naked political pamphlet, which is completely pointless, and you do not talk about what is your obligation under the Constitution of this country, which is to regionally develop Serbia. This has nothing to do with Eurostat or with all the other rules that the EU makes for future members, but it has to do with what you want to play with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22212	The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is 23 minutes and 45 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the people sent by John the Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22213	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we wanted to show in this 1st article how the whole law has been set upside down. You know, in order to achieve the need for regional development, in order to create similar regions, there needs to be a policy. As its product, this policy should have one serious debate with both local self-government and with all those with whom it is necessary to discuss even regional development, in order to form statistical regions. We're going completely the opposite, and there's a key bad approach to making this law, which created these problems. We determine the regions first, and then we'll see how we define the development policy, based on defined regions. That's a big and big problem. It is, in fact, saying that it is not the proposing's intention to develop the whole concept of development through this law, but exactly what the minister said in his presentation, that this should be the beginning of Serbia's administrative division into regions. In a series of amendments that we have submitted, we have clearly worked that out. First, it is necessary for the National Assembly to adopt a policy of equal regional development over the next 10 years, to bring strategic acts of government on the basis of this policy, and only then, on the basis of these acts, to form possible statistical regions in agreement with local self-government and lead a policy of balanced regional development based on these regions. No, we have the inflation of institutions here, the formation and definition of larger regions, and we don't have a policy of regional development. This law does not define regional development policy in any place. There's not that story we heard here a few minutes ago, about politics and economy, about scales, about investment, about not knowing everything. That's not gonna happen. We have one thing, which is to define the degree of development of local self-government and regions. On this basis, regional development policy can be built, but it is in this Article that the law shows its true face. The goal is only to determine the region and regional policy, development policy and all that it means is irrelevant. Through a series of amendments, in the next presentation, we will show all the nonsense of this law, which is defined in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22214	The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is 21 minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic to the title above Article 2. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Acimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22215	I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on regional development – the title above Article 2 is deleted. The SRS believes that the division of Serbia into seven regions is a new fraud of Serbian citizens. This farce and public delusion of Serbia's division into regions means a balanced regional and demographic development of Serbia, is a pure fraud. The new borders within Serbia, both geographically and politically, are the goal of the Vatican and Western forces to build a protectorate from Serbia, where neither the president of Serbia nor the head of the region will be known, and all to create a greater anarchy in the country. With Serbia's division, the appetites of all minorities within Serbia will grow, which is the final goal of destroying the statehood of the Republic of Serbia. If you wanted, all previous governments, since 2000 and beyond, could find ways and instruments to prevent Serbs from leaving KIM, southern Serbia, the Raska area, from living on their hearths. So, from the edges of the Republic of Serbia, people move, we lose territory there. Could the white plague or the eviction of Serbian living be prevented by political, social and financial support of the Republic of Serbia to these very endangered Serbs? What I especially don't believe you is an example from 2000 to today, where Serbs have experienced more exodus in KIM, and what is spreading with you in the future, is more and more in Serbia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22216	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22217	This is the 2nd amendment of the DSS and it is about the amendment that we have submitted to Article 1, and as you can see, the complete package of amendments that we have submitted is in order, first of all, to change the concept of this law as well as Milos Aligrudic in relation to the amendment to Article 1. It has been set upside down and what you have pointed out here as a major thesis, which is to divide Serbia into seven statistical regions, is a bait that, in fact, conceals the real lack of this law, which is that it essentially does not decentralise and creates the foundations for even regional development. That is right, it says what is in your objective of Article 2 – encouraging regional development. Encouraging regional development can be an integral part of some policy, some kind of strategy, and you don't define it by this law. Then the fundamental and logical question arises, what is the purpose of the law, as you call it, and by its nature it should be "top" if not to define the policy of regional development established by the Government, which would be discussed in this Parliament and be supported by it for a certain period of 10 years. This should be the purpose and function of this law, not that as a primary goal, you should encourage regional development. It can only be one of the elements of one serious strategy and serious policy, which we later defined, I think, in Article 14, what we should actually be. That's where we differ conceptually. The second amendment shows that the concept you set is unserious, the concept that only... (President: Two minutes. I use time as an authorised representative. After the 2nd amendment, we see an important difference in our concepts. Your concept is, I repeat again, but it should be repeated, to determine seven administrative, or statistical regions. The word here is whether they become administrative or not. Of course, you have no answer to that question, but what you have and what your intention is, I said that this law, among other things, is a matter of political trade; you are in a position to try to restore your party infrastructure, by forming strong regional agencies, district associations, etc. It's not a good motive, it's not a healthy motive to define such an important law. In Article 2, we asked that instead of words – encouraging, put a clear formulation, which is to put the word 'political' into the objectives of regional development policy, and then, what you stated taxively, see what is an integral part of that policy. What you have cited as measures, eight measures, cannot be objectives to encourage, but it is probably understood that it is in the function of encouraging some policy that you have towards even regional development.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22218	The remaining time available, as an authorised representative, is 13 minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 2nd point 4, with a proposal to delete. Of course, the promoter turned that down. As I was preparing for this session and for an explanation of the proposal for this amendment, I spoke to people from the profession and science, and along the way I looked at some television "round table" led by Mr. Micunovic, so I will only give you a few details from the discussion of the two participants, where special attention deserves to be discussed by Jovan Komsic, from the Faculty of Economics in Novi Sad. This professor recommends adopting a political strategy on regionalisation and democratisation of the country. The document, as it points out, needs to define the objectives, content, methods and phases of realising the constitutional right of citizens in the province's, or regional economy and, accordingly, to bring a set of legal solutions to Serbia's new territorial organisation, taking the stand to ratify the draft European Charter on Regional Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike the promoters, we say in front of the SRS that this bill undermines the integrity of the Republic of Serbia and is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia... (President: Two minutes. Just one sentence, I'm done, Mrs. Comic, thank you. We believe, unlike the promoters, that regionalisation is a threat to the state and not to defend separatism, but to encourage it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22220	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on a proposal from the SRS, and on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on regional development. My amendment reads - Article 2(6) is deleted. The proposed Article 2 of the Law reads – The objectives of promoting regional development are, so this member has eight points, and point 6 is – setting up a legal and institutional framework for planning, organising, coordinating and realising development activities. I suggest that point 6 be deleted. My argument is brief and clear – the SRS believes this bill undermines the integrity of the Republic of Serbia and is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Article 8(1) – the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. Under this law, you divide Serbia into seven regions. I come from Kruševec, so I'd like to know which region Kruševac belongs to, if you hadn't accidentally attached it to Belgrade? Since you say that the regional agency is going to write projects and the rest and that regions, or cities, are getting money and it's going to be much better than it is so far, I'm telling you with responsibility that there's nothing to do with it, that it's distracting citizens and that it's just colorful lies. Whatever you promised, you didn't accomplish anything, and we know it best in Kruševec. I'll tell you later what was promised for the town of Kruševac, and none of it was. Under this law, there are no new jobs, there's nothing. There will be new jobs through the regional agency that you set up with this law, but only for your members from G17. You're re-enlarged the number of government employees. (President: Two minutes. By passing this law, there will be great bureaucracy. You'd better open seven factories and hire a number of people, so let's all say hello. It is only certain that this law will never be applied in practice, and I will read you what you promised the town of Krusevec, and it has not been obtained. Mladjan Dinkic, minister of finance in the government of the Republic of Serbia, at a press conference following the Serbian government's meeting in Krusevec, on July 27th 2006, "For the water supply project, the next two years are scheduled to be allocated to 4.8m euros", which has not been received. The project of exploitation was the gas and dumps of Montenegro in Krusevec, two million and 350,000 euros, and was not obtained. The children's theatre in Krusevec, which will be invested in 24 million dinars, has not been won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22222	Anyone else want a word? (No) The time available to the MP group is 46 minutes and 30 seconds. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22223	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment before the SRS to Article 2 of point 8 - to delete. Reason – The SRS believes that this bill does not support the integrity of the Republic of Serbia and is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Article 8(1), which reads - the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. The government's explanation for why it does not accept my amendment, I think that Mrs Kalanovic will accept it, is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 2 of point 8 of the bill determines more effective use of domestic natural resources and goods. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder, today, did it bother the government to send the money where it is needed, or in rural areas, and to help the economic and material population of the Republic of Serbia? I believe that even today, and even seven or eight years ago today, Dragan Veselinov began with the first regionalisation, when he said -- he cannot go into Serbia for the duchy wheat. Now I'm asking you, is it in Serbia today, when the raspberries started harvesting and the wheat harvest is about to begin, certain prices, and is this business lobby racing to rob one of the biggest workers and heroes, which is, you know, a peasant? I'm sure you didn't go out with certain measures. I'll show you how these buyers rob the peasants, because they've collected the coolants, and they don't allow the price of buying the raspberries, which certain companies can give, but rather, they just type in the quantity, but there's no price anywhere. It'll be the same with the wheat, which you'll definitely take for five or six dinars and you'll rob the peasant again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22224	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov to the title above Article 3. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really kind of funny when it's said to be a roof law, which will regulate a very important and complex area. You know, the "top" law that regulates an extremely complex area cannot be reduced to the fact that there are fewer than 50 members, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that it is adopted in the government on Thursday morning, sent to the Assembly on Friday morning, and already on Tuesday, in the atmosphere in which we are, we discuss and discuss it. So it's something that objectively contests the importance of a law that really should be significant. In Article 3, you define the principles of encouraging regional development. I have commented on several of your principles earlier, and I would now take advantage of the opportunity and comment on one that, because of the structure, nature and nature of this government, is being put into this context. It is objectively questionable whether these principles that I am going to mention, based on my experience with you, can be applied in perspective. Here you are saying – the principle of partnership (participation and synergy – regional development policy based on partnership and synergy of public, private and civil sector). I ask the question, how much is raised awareness at the level of local self-government about the need and importance of the public and private sector partnership, what is its essence, what is its significance, and why should the state raise awareness of it and insist on it? Was it necessary to predict and form by the government of seven regional development agencies and all other regulatory bodies that are there, which are reportedly going to be dealing with this, so that, for example, this principle is being established and promoted through Serbia? You see, the public and private sector partnership is necessary, because there is no public funding to finance social needs, and social needs are high, because it is fast living, but the government of the Republic of Serbia obviously does not have the capacity to monitor it. Public finances in Serbia have been seriously questioned. From the budget deficit, and everything that characterizes public spending, as it is, you all need to be burdened. You here promote the principle of partnership of the private and public sector, insisting on its importance. If you'd acted differently, this would have been on a much higher level by now. This law and what you foresee through it will certainly not raise the importance of this principle. You're talking about the principle of subsidiarity, through a very centralized law you're talking about subsidiarity and decentralisation. Never was the state, in a fiscal sense, more centralised and there was never any less will in the executive government to decentralisation in any sense, even in financial terms, do. You've come up with everything, you've come up with all the principles you've put here. You may have written some legal, grammatically and spellingly well, but essentially, in the spirit of implementation, this is not applicable and neither are you capable of applying it. The principle of rationality. Here, a simple example, the government of the Republic of Serbia has invested over a billion dinars in my municipality over the last few years, for reconstruction and reconstruction of military facilities, or barracks, after the bombing, and when it was over and over, they emptied the barracks. An extremely large complex, but infrastructure-covered to the end, collapse and rot, and you have invested over a billion and 200 million dinars in its recovery in the name of rationality and efficiency. Then a normal local leadership offers to give it to local self-government, to commercialize it through the public and private sector partnership, and to offer the military something, say, in the next 10 years of 100 apartments, and the government that you make to it remains deaf. It takes some time and then the same government asks the municipality to give 12m euros for the complex, and the municipality lives a year with a budget of fourm euros. Where's the rationality, where's the efficiency, where's the meaning and where's the definition of equal regional development? You can make fun of yourself, you can comment, you can talk, but by doing what you've done in the last nine years, you've done everything you can to disprove your own efforts to adopt one of these laws in the Republic Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22226	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 40 minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the amendment to the title above Articles 3 and 3, respectively. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22227	The title is – the principles of encouraging regional development. They cannot be the principles of encouraging regional development. There may be principles of regional development policy, and encouraging the equilibration of regional development can be one of the principles, it is only logical. I don't see how there can be principles to encourage regional development. Encouragement is, in itself, a methodological approach. When you say – we encourage something, you framed a set of procedures to achieve a specific goal; it is a methodology, everyone knows it. If we are talking about regional development policy, it is a comprehensive concept, politics should be established by the National Assembly. That's what was in our proposal that you didn't accept, and if you know how to explain why, it's an honor. Then, when policy is established, it is based on certain principles, but one of these principles is the principle of fostering evenness, i.e. even regional development. That's what's supposed to be the goal, not this, as you've presented here, by this bill. But in this bill, it's all wrong, so it's no wonder this is wrong too, because you don't understand at all the way the concepts are classified, etemologically, let alone anything else. One previous proposal of another law has otherwise classified these terms, so it distinguishes what a strategic document, what a plan, etc. You guys here obviously don't tell the difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22228	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the Vice-President of the Assembly, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this is, in fact, a political project based on the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a rapporteur for Serbia Monitoring Committee and, above all, the European Union, in the process of all that you need to meet, and what you ask, to bring Serbia into the European Union, which is obviously not going to happen, according to the statements of many European officials, because they do not plan such enlargement with Serbia. On the other hand, you open the space, as one of your colleagues said, you open Pandora's box, because the fact that in Shumadi, like this and similar laws rise to the level of a dangerous political project, which essentially means nothing but the deception of the citizens of Kragujevac and the whole of Šumadia that they will play a synchronised action, the role of local self-government with the government, which has not been the case so far, because in all situations where local self-government leaders addressed the Serbian government, including your ministry, for many projects, you have seen it exclusively on a foreign line. So on your coat of arms you presented the victory of Veroljub Stevanovic in the local elections in Kragujevac. There has been a fraud of the century called "Fiat", and now the Kragujevci suffers immeasurable damage due to such an election and such fraud, because there are reasonable doubts that the Kragujevac city budget has been damaged by dozens of millions of dinars, through various staged tenders and projects, and then it is quite obvious that the government in Serbia, also supporting such projects and such advocates of the idea of the region in Serbia, will, in fact, create the possibility that local feudals, such as Stevanovic, will hold a cap over everyone and that, behold, I believe that after the adoption of this law... (President: Two minutes. I'm done. ... and to declare himself Serbia's chief feeder, given the fact that Kragujevac is planned to be some kind of centre of the central region. Otherwise, this project has long been imagined, not only in these European institutions, which would further disperse Serbia, but in both economic and other economic centres of power. But don't deceive the citizens, because this is the year of the big crisis. In the following year, Serbia's emerging high-risk country, according to the rating of the company D&B, which assessed it, is expected to drop 4% of the social product. So, basically, this story means nothing, except for one precedent when it comes to the Serbia Constitution, which is being violated, and the latent danger to Serbia's future secession, which is also the intention of both America and Western forces that create such a policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22230	The time available to the MP's group is 39 minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22231	Ladies and gentlemen, from Romans to today, Serbia is not as sharp as the DS pieces and coalitions in power. Our government is the "Our Joy" entertainment site. According to some, it is really not appropriate at this point what our government is dealing with -- it proposes to the MPs and the Assembly to pass some laws that have no value for the Republic of Serbia, except to create new federal units. Serbia is governed by municipalities, districts and local communities and, as such, administrative areas are governed by the Constitution and the law. What you're doing is nonsense, laxity. Come on, turn to production, turn to agriculture. That's what Serbia is looking for and what the Serbian people are looking for. Don't kid yourself, and don't by any chance believe that the citizens will trust you anymore. Determine at this point the price of wheat, as Mr. Zivanovic said, because citizens expect it at this point, that agriculture is rising to a higher level. The Duke is an autonomous province. You see how the southern Banat goes, what about "Azotar," 3,000 unsuspected workers; thieves robbed the factory, carried out the plants, sold out. Therefore, you have much more pressing jobs than you intend to do by regionalising and tearing Serbia. Serbia is a catastrian plot. She's re-convening now, and that re-marrying is leading to an easier sale. You know that Kosovo used to be an area, because in this law you predict an area, but now, you see, it's a state. Therefore, this leads to federalisation, this leads to something that destroys a stable state that should be in Serbia's space. Don't destroy her... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Don't rip it, 'cause it'll be easier for the enemy to take it. It's better to have a strong one than a weak state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22232	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on regional development, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(5), which reads - is deleted. Otherwise, this refers to the principle of planning, which I consider to be excessive, as well as all the other principles set out in this bill. If there is a principle of planning, there is also a principle of non-planning and such, leading to a law that is excessive, which leads to the tearing and breaking of the state unity of the Serbian state. I will remind you that Mrs Comic has said that we will be working until the end of this agenda, and I see that all members of the DS and the ruling majority have left the hall and have already gone to visit their territories, their regions, to grab someone else from them. There is an old saying in the Serbian people, through folk songs is sang – great men, damned souls to parts of the fragmented empire. When you brought the state of Serbia down to a beggar's stick, robbed, destroyed, it is now only left to tear it apart, to divide it into seven pieces, to get the new seven territorial units, which will be the subject of the break-up and tear-up of the Serbian state. I propose that the minister withdraw this bill from the procedure because it does not comply with tradition and is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, to remind you that KIM does not have one region, but five regions: one region is held by French, another by Americans, third by Italians, fourth by... and what is the product of these regions – evil and hell, chaos and misery, the exorcision of 250,000 Serbs and the destruction of everything that is Serbian in KIM space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22234	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milorad Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on regional development. I will only quote one part, where it is said – the reduction of regional and intra-regional diversity in the degree of socio-economic development and living conditions, with an emphasis on encouraging the development of underdeveloped ones. Now I'd like to ask some representatives of the government. The first cuts of barley started, and in two to three weeks, the first cuts of wheat will begin. Look, the games about buying out the wheat started, but these are not games in the interest of the pair, the peasants, the individual agricultural producer, these are games of the warehouse, the tycoon and the financial powers that are racing and that will give the lowest price to the individual agricultural producer. The suggestion of these powerful men is that a kilo of wheat be nine dinars and 70 pairs. You know how Minister Dragin reacted? ''Mliners have offered a price we are not satisfied with and my message to them is to use more than a number of fingers in calculating how much warlords should pay. '"The peasant will bend to those toes, only to honor the price of 18 dinar wheat. It's the only calculator price where a flat crop manufacturer can settle the most basic investment he's given per hectare. The government must intervene urgently, through stock reserves, to buy 150 to 200 thousand tonnes of this year's wheat at the proposed price, as this would regulate the domestic market. Otherwise, the peasant can no longer endure what the government has imposed on him, or the inability of the government to stand once in the way of the warehouses, regardless of what we have passed the Storage and Storage Act, and to say – you cannot determine, the price of wheat and all agricultural products will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not by tycoons, warehouses and financial powers you hold.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22236	Anyone else want a word? On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I said at the beginning of my amendment presentation, I pointed to one fact, which is that Serbia is one of the most corrupt countries in Europe. Until the problem of corruption is resolved in the highest state structures, Serbia can hardly count on any economic development. Until this government takes the only right path, which is to make Serbia an institutionally strong state, a legally regulated state, a country in which regulations will apply to all legal entities, regardless of their nation, religion, race, political membership, property status, language, origin, degree of education, etc., Serbian citizens cannot count on any higher degree of economic development and prosperity. Corruption in this country literally eats the economic substance of Serbia. Until this issue is resolved, all the stories of even regional development, some pre-accession funds are pointless. The huge capital in this country is eaten by a monster called corruption and absolutely nothing has been done on this plan. As much as the ruling coalition is trying to convince Serbian citizens that the UN tribunal or something else is a condition for Serbia's EU accession, in fact, the biggest obstacle on the road is corruption and crime, in the highest state structures. You today do not have almost any media in Serbia that is as independent as the executive power without being full of various affairs, in which, unfortunately, the highest state officials – Luka "Belgrade", Business Centre "Usje" are involved, that I do not list any further. From the dubious and completely harmful privatisation of the "Smedereva" ironworks, so far, Serbia is the site of various corruption affairs. Therefore, all these good wishes, which may well exist in one part of the government, related to regional development, that is, the uniform economic development of all parts of Serbia, will not be possible until the basic problem that exists in this country is solved, and that is crime and corruption at the highest state summit. Until this issue is resolved once and for all, no citizens will see well from these pre-accession funds. I'd like to highlight a fact that simply falls into your eyes as soon as you look at this law in the summer. The Serbian government seems to think that even regional development is achieved by further administration. Instead of reducing bureaucracy in Serbia, you further increase it. Now, if you adopt this law, you will have a whole series of new bodies, which will cost you taxpayers in Serbia. You'll have the National Council for Regional Development, so in every region you'll have some kind of regional economic development agency, so you'll have the National Economic Development Agency, so you'll have regional advice. Now the question arises – who will pay for it? It turns out that most of the money Serbia is about to receive, or that it may receive from pre-accession EU funds, in fact, will eat the bureaucratic apparatus. So, this is a venture that was predicated to failure. Look at the number of members you've predicted in these agencies and in these councils. These are huge bodies, this national council on regional development has, if I'm not mistaken, 19 members. Why so many people, if you have seven regions in Serbia? I guess it's enough for each region to be one, so you have seven members. I don't know what you double the number of members of the region, what do you increase anyway? The European Commission's stance, which has been following the process of Serbia's EU accession for several years, or the process of implementing that communal law, as you call it, is clear – one of the more important obstacles on this European path, Serbia, is a predominantly state administration. Instead of reducing it, you increase it further. Of course you don't do it by accident. I can't help feeling that this law, first of all, will serve only one party, party G17 plus. Probably all cash flows, as well as financial flows in Serbia, will go through Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and the G17 Plus party. It will be he who, through his people in national bodies and in these regional bodies, will direct money flows. We are already facing one defeating fact that the taxpayers' money, the money being poured into Serbia's state budget, or the province budget of Vojvodina, is being financed in a completely illegal way by the campaign of certain political parties. The SRS is afraid that the money, which eventually comes from EU pre-accession funds, will again benefit only from the political elites of the ruling parties. Here, first of all, I think of DS and G17 plus, and that citizens, for whom you allegedly pass this law, will absolutely no benefit from this law will they see. Secondly, I don't think the Serbian government is aware of one fact, which is that regions, or parts of Serbia, have been economically developed differently. Not every region in Serbia, unfortunately, is economically self-sustainable. Perhaps, in some sense, Vojvodina could be economically self-sustainable, and the city of Belgrade, but the south of Serbia, what you call the "Eastern region", has no theoretical chance of survival without the help of the central state authorities. That's what this is about. You insist on the story, the wrong story, the false story, that this law is, in fact, some kind of decentralisation in Serbia. It's not. This law will only contribute to additional administration. Nothing will be of economic development. We'll only have extra bureaucracy, and God forbid these regions, from statistical, change to administrative and territorial and political units. You, already in public now, have stories, which tend to be broadcast through the media, that future changes to the Serbian Constitution, among other things, will mean not only territorial regionalisation of Serbia, but also the creation of a two-home National Assembly, so you will have two homes, a House of Citizens and, probably, something called the House of the Regions. This is already openly commented in professional circles. If regions become not only statistical, but administrative-terroral and political units with a certain form of self-government, then count on each of these seven regions likely to have some of their own authorities. He'll have a congregation, he'll have the authorities, maybe he'll have something else, who knows. A man must ask one elemental question of economic nature – people, where are you going to finance all this? How much does your concept of decentralisation cost? Who will pay for all this, from whose pockets will your attempt to decentralised Serbia be paid? Out of the fact that not every region is equally developed and that not every region can survive independently, one conclusion is clear – regions that are economically underdeveloped, and unfortunately, such are the majority in Serbia, will not be able to survive without the help of the government, without the help of the ministries, without the help of the central state authorities. Then the question is, what is this decentralisation? In relation to some regions, it may be decentralisation, where there is no need for major state intervention, but where the state intervention is needed, where the regions would collapse without the help of the central government, it is no decentralisation. It's total centralization, so even in that sense this bill of yours is not justified. We are fully aware of the fact that not every part of Serbia is evenly regionally developed and it is true that it is the legacy of some past times, not just in the 1990s; it lasts for centuries, it lasts for decades. But the way to break it once is not to share Serbia. People, you people say, "slaughter ox for a kilo of meat." To speed up the economic development of each part of Serbia, it is not necessary to break the state of Serbia, but to strengthen it institutionally, economically, socially, culturally, spiritually, scientifically and technologically. The way to develop undeveloped municipalities and cities is, through measures of appropriate fiscal policy, to leave a higher level of tax collected to municipalities and cities, but to develop municipalities and cities. This is what the SRS insists on, that we have rich municipalities and cities, rich citizens, not rich regional bureaucracy. It is a concept advocated by the SRS -- a strong and unitary state of Serbia, with economically developed cities and municipalities. History has shown that this is the most efficient and economically rational form of state order. If this is the order of one France, if one UK is arranged in a similar form, what is it that prevents you from applying what has been good results in some other countries for centuries. So, a unique Serbia, a strong Serbia, but with strong municipalities and cities. No inter-state authorities are required. This will only lead to the creation of new regional bureaucracy. It will only accumulate the financing and functioning of a massive state apparatus anyway, and the citizens will, after all, be much more wealthy than they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22238	The time remaining is 26 minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22239	In accordance with the position of the SRS that this bill is bad and that it should be withdrawn from the procedure, I have proposed that point 9 be deleted in Article 3 of this proposal. I believe that, in these circumstances, Serbia, of this law, and this also shows today's debate, can have a lot of political damage, and little or almost no economic benefit. The biggest political damage is that he divides Serbia into seven parts, seven regions. As formal as that division seems to be, make sure that it fits in the long run for those who have been unloading Serbia and Serbian territories for 20 years. The main value of this bill is that it will contribute to a better and more balanced development of the region in Serbia. It is a colourful lie, which should fool citizens of Serbia, especially those in the interior, to reduce their bitterness over the misery in which they live, because of the seas of false pre-election promises and because of the fact that the little money that the state of Serbia has mostly ends up in Vojvodina and Belgrade, and that the interior of Serbia remains what remains. The rest of Serbia, the rest of the money. Whether and how many parts of Serbia will be developed does not depend at all on whether Serbia is regionally divided; it depends on whether Serbia is capable enough to create stimulating conditions and means for development, whether it is ready to distribute the funds fairly and evenly. I want to take another minute to say that today was the Big Plan Community Assembly and that the main topic was water supply. That's what I've talked about here many times and I've bored myself and God and the people. I remind you, in short, 50,000 people in the Great Plan, instead of drinking water, drinking poisoned water. I ask the question Minister Kalanovic – how is it possible that this year's budget does not provide for any money to solve this problem, and when can the citizens of the Great Plan expect that the Serbian government will solve this problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22240	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22241	Dear ladies and gentlemen, on Article 3rd point 11, I have submitted an amendment to delete this point. In principle, the SRS believes that this bill undermines the integrity of the Republic of Serbia and is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Article 8(1), which reads: the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. Of course, we're tracking everything that's going on in our country, everything that someone's sending us as well as other messages. There are also some meetings and agreements that are not quite as public, but after a few years, it turns out in practice how serious they were. From 1999 to 2006, various meetings were held throughout Europe, in Geneva – 19, 20, 21 September 2003, where several people from the Vatican, America, Germany, England, were present, who had come up with a plan called "Barbarosa Five". On December 9th and 12th of last year, it seems to me that about 12 questions were asked to various ministers, ministries and agencies, and they all told me that they didn't have reliable information that someone was planning this and that. But here, only a month ago comes to us the famous Mr. Biden, the Vice President of America, and tells us a warm recommendation that we should divide Serbia into some five regions to make a better life. Of course, the government, which is as serviced as it is, goes a little higher than that, so instead of five, it offers as many as seven regions to be made here. We find this law unnecessary, excessive, and if someone wanted to help undeveloped regions, then they should have given money to municipalities and cities, not to invent some resorient mediums, which should further draw money away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22242	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic to the title above Article 4. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22243	I will use the time of the MP's group, since I am not signed as an applicant for the amendment. Our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to this member defining division into regions, or areas. The whole point of this law, at least that's what's written in the explanation, is to reduce regional differences. Is it possible and what will be the ultimate goal of all this proposed in this law? It's enough to look at statistical data, since regions are, above all, statistical, as it's said. Vojvodina and Belgrade have about 50% of Serbia's population, and Belgrade and Vojvodina, around 60% of Serbia's GDP. If we exclude KIM, which is statistically not counting on the contribution of GDP, the rest of Serbia is divided into four regions. If these regions were to be roughly uniform in size and GDP, this means that the remaining 40% of GDP is divided into four regions. In other words, instead of now having differences that are 1:15, we will have two regions that will have about 30% of GDP and four regions that will have 10% of GDP. The differences reportedly in Serbia will only be reduced statistically, in essence. Since the government will provide funds to reduce differences, I can only conclude from this that Vojvodina and Belgrade will not get a yellow bank for the next 20 years so as not to make an even bigger difference. When you say that, it's clear that it won't be possible. Then the meaning of everything is perfectly clear, that this law will have no result.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22244	The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is 19 minutes. The People's MP Milos Aligrudic, as an applicant for the amendment, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22245	Let me get on with this story. So that's why we suggested that this concept be different, that this law make specific guidelines for the determination of statistical regions, not that you distract us by determining the region in Article 5 of the Law. That is why we said in Article 4, that a region is being formed, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia could, on the basis of defined categories, and already existing in the legal system, establish the region as the primary unit, which will come under indicators that this law provides, including statistics and those rules of NUTS 2, NUTS 3 and so on. That's why we said that the region is a statistical territorial continent consisting of one or more districts, within the meaning of the District Regulation, or one or more units of self-government, so that's the basic base on which you build the story. If you don't determine all seven in advance, how you predicted here, but leave them specific, that's for the standards we talk about quite enough, because no one's making us take a step further. Do not bring confusion among citizens, do not bring confusion into this parliament to discuss territorial organisation rather than economic categories. This is how you help yourself, i.e. To the government, which makes such a proposal, that in one valid way, it arranges this area. Then we would not be in a position to ask these questions that Mr. Radojko Obradovic has asked for a moment, because this thing could be more flexible and otherwise solved. Let's go with a variant of specific regions, not define them in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22246	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has been made by Parliamentarian Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22247	Dear Chairman, we have proposed this amendment to delete the term "public" and everything related to the term 'public', because we believe that this procedure is too complicated, that the introduction of new organisational units, even statistical ones, only complicates the whole story and makes new bureaucracy. What do we need besides all these ministries, 104-105 agencies, various administrations, offices, councils; now we're going to get the National Council, the National Agency, and then we're going to get more district agencies? Why are we making all new and new transmissions between the central government and citizens at the municipal level? We need 10 intermediators to get to the citizens, to help them. Is this how undeveloped municipalities and citizens living in them are helped? It's completely pointless to introduce district agencies and districts as a term when there are already districts, as some kind of term that can be used, to make up regions, which is the essence of the story. However, this law is not designed to essentially help undeveloped develop faster, but rather to create a new bureaucracy, since you have no power or sense to create a new job in the economy. The only employer in this country is the state, so when we don't have a place to put our party personnel into it, then we're gonna build new agencies. With every new law in this assembly, we get a new agency, management, where party people should be employed. So this is going to be another party outpost where G 17 plus is going to hire their own people. Even more abnormal and, in practice, fingertips in the eyes of the entire undeveloped Serbia's latest data, which says -- the privatisation of the Belgrade Fair will take place in the coming days, and for the first time since privatisation, exceptionally, of the Law on Privatisation, 50% of the funds realised by that privatisation will belong to the city of Belgrade. By what law? Where did that come from? Is it that Gilas demanded that he not be deprived of the means to continue robbing Serbian citizens, and that of those living in the most underdeveloped areas? You've seen the Vojvodina model, it says 50% of Vojvodina's privatisation goes to the province administration, so you've had little, but you've taken 90% from NIS, and now you need to feed Gilas, and you'll give 50% of the privatisation to Belgrade. What should other Serbian cities do? Serbia's third high-privatisation is the 'Duvanska Industry' from Nis; 95% took Belgrade and Vojvodina, or central government, 5% remained Nis. Where's the equality? What does that look like? How dare you do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22248	The remaining time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is 16 minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a law on regional development, which reads - Article 4(7), is deleted. The SRS believes that this bill undermines the integrity of the Republic of Serbia and is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Article 8(1), which reads - the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. This law is extremely destructive and represents the collapse of our state tissue, a national being, or Serbia as a whole. Verica Kalanovic, the NIP minister, said at this session that 40 of the most vulnerable municipalities in Serbia are the subject of NIP funding: "In the previous three months I was in 28, and representatives of my ministry in all 40 municipalities. Together with representatives of local self-government, we sat down and discussed their priorities and projects." It is clear to me that your criteria for the development of municipalities are a stretching category and are in direct proportion to what parties participate in the municipal government. If G 17 plus is in power, these municipalities that are, as a rule, undeveloped, receive huge funds that go to buy votes at the bar, and the works are obtained by local tycoons and tycoons. Where you're not in power, like. in the municipality of Ljig from which I come, you honestly and openly advise that you do not want to invest and financially help the municipality of Ljig. I will quote the first sentence of the memo you send to the citizens of Ljig municipality, with a memorandum and a seal from G17 plus, which reads: "Respected citizens, since the ministries of the Republic of Serbia do not want to invest and help with the financing of projects in the Ljig municipality, etc."... I've only got two minutes at my disposal, so I'm asking, Madam Minister, I expect you to speak now in public... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Why don't you want to use your financial resources to help the Ljig municipality?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22250	The word is made by Minister Velica Kalanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22251	Dear Sir, it is well known that last year I opened a water factory in the village of Ba, which provides Ljig and is financed by NIP funds. I'd like you to look at how much the funds have been invested in the League before you make such a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22252	Anyone else want a word? National MP Zoran Popovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22253	Madam Minister, I invite you to come to the Lig municipality and look at what you've invested in. You gave for a football field of 158,000 euros. I'd make five football fields with that money.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22254	Anyone else want a word? Please, when we use the right to reply, we challenge or interpret what is said to justify receiving words. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is also in the principle debate, and today, in the debate in particular, above all, the citizens of Serbia clearly understand what the ruling coalition wants to do with the application of this law and what lies behind it. The exceptional quality of exposure, above all, of Mr Stevanovic, who was representative of the SRS, and today, Mr Martinovic, gives us the right to be convinced that your intentions are to bring Serbia to the level of Belgrade Pashalu. To mention Vojvodina as one region, and we know very well what is going on in Vojvodina, first of all, I mean the Statute of Vojvodina; we know very well the position of LSDV and its President, Nenada Chanka, the man who publicly, at the pay phone, said – that he would have asked himself, would not have written the statute of Vojvodina, but the constitution of Vojvodina, who printed a calendar for the New Year where Shabac was not in Serbia. Which is why DS swings him like a prenup, I think it's getting clearer. When Mr Martinovic mentioned the Fund for Capital Investments, 7% of the AP Vojvodina from the Republic of Serbia's budget is a fund directly available to the President of the Executive Council, Bojan Pajtic, who is also the chairman of the Fund's Management Board. Money is shared more than selectively. When the funds come from the Republic budget... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'll use a few minutes in front of the Parliament group, then there's a panic about them - who's gonna grab a bigger cookie, who's gonna keep the promises they promised, is that SVM, is that Nenad Canak, are those municipalities where the DS is in power, especially in election campaigns! One plastic example, for the sake of our citizens. In a pre-election campaign in the municipality bordering mine, which is the municipality of Bac, where the president of the municipality Mr. Bozinović Tomislav, the workers of "Bačkaputa" wore yellow T-shirts with inscription – For European Bac - Tomislav Bozinović. One of the workers didn't want to wear that shirt, threw it away and buried it with asphalt. The other day he got fired. That's what Bojan Pajtic and DS do, comes into the municipalities and opens the water factories twice, his members bring him in, doesn't know what he's given the money for, and the water isn't for drinking. The Serbian Radical Party is convinced that this law will not only not be applicable, but our citizens are ready and holding the bars in their hands, as Boris Tadic said -- must guard their jobs. They just need to get wet. Not only this one, but many other laws will not be applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22256	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 24 minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try in a few sentences to prove your concept of regionalisation of Serbia is economically harmful and unacceptable to the citizens themselves. By 2002, there were seven regional secretariats in Vojvodina. There are two times as many today, or more than twice, 17 of them. The question now arises what happens if the Serbian Parliament confirms the proposal for the Vojvodina Statute, which was adopted in October of last year in the AP Vojvodina Assembly? How much further will this take into account the transfer of jurisdiction and all that that, to the greatest extent, is going to be done by the anti-constitutional statute, to increase the province's bureaucracy in Novi Sad? Do you think the citizens of Sremska Mitrovica, Pancheva, Sombora, Subotica, Kickinda, Zrenjanina live better in Vojvodina today when they have 17 regional secretariats, or in 2002, when they were seven? It's objectively, they live harder today. My colleague Milorad Krstin has brought up the problems that farmers across Serbia face. Given that Vojvodina is Serbia's wheat, the problem with the purchase of wheat and, in general, agricultural products is the most pronounced in Vojvodina. There is nothing better for the people of Vojvodina when they are seven, or when they are 17, or tomorrow, when there will be 30 regional secretariats, given all those responsibilities that you have put to work by the authorities of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Then the logical question arises – what kind of money do you think you finance all of this? How good this should be for Serbian citizens, then from their taxes, from various taxes paid to state, province and local authorities, they can finance such red tape and so much administration. Even if there is no crime and corruption, and there are, and you know well that one of the main centres of corruption in Vojvodina is the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, where the money literally comes from in sacks, these are some suspicious investments, extremely suspicious election investments. Roads and streets are paved seven days before elections and on election day, at night, under temperatures below zero, by mud. The roads last seven days, ten days, a month, and then they fail, and then it's harder to walk that way when he's supposed to be paved than until then. This is a fact that these MPs who come from Vojvodina, who are from ruling parties, will also acknowledge. The other thing is that because of party discipline, you have to keep your mouth shut. So, what you're saying is that what you call decentralisation, even compared to Vojvodina, to bring well-being to the citizens, is absolutely not true. It will only further impoverish citizens, because decentralisation, in your opinion, means increasing local, regional and regional bureaucracy. You thus imagine decentralisation, not as the right of a citizen to participate in doing business of common interest and general interest, but as creating various local and regional apparatus of government, in which you will, above all, put in your party personnel. So you're starting these agencies, so you're setting up these tips to house your party personnel, who are, to the most extent, incompetent, unprofessional, but who expect you to make up for everything they've been doing in the election. You know, it's no small thing when you come to a man's door on election day and bring him a package. You must truly trample your own dignity and gain the great courage to do so. Now that you've done that, when based on the package, based on the money you've finished, based on Chinese shoes, mobile phones, you've won the May elections last year, it's time to settle your accounts and to put your party activists somewhere else, otherwise they won't do it for you. Where you're going to host them, rather than like this -- we're going to start some national agencies, little national councils, little regional agencies, little regional councils, like huge bodies that have 19 or 25 members, and then these members are likely to have some deputy members, etc. There's an opportunity to please at least a part of those who have done something for us in the election. That's why you're passing this law, and that's the real truth. What good will the people of Zajcar have from your agencies and your councils, when you have ruined everything that could have been ruined? You've privatised sugars in Vojvodina for three euros. If you were selling bricks from that sugar cane, you'd get more. The Smederevo hardware store went a few times lower than the market price. What did you do with Luke 'Belgrade', the Business Center 'Mouth'? The affair to the affair is now the people who are the cause of these affairs, the people against whom the proceedings are being conducted, the people who are being seen from the plane as being involved in various illegal activities, allegedly those who are going to introduce Serbia into the EU, and even this way, by dividing the country into feuds, and then we will have various regional feuders, so it will be as it was during, that is, after the death of Emperor Dushan, when He said great – the greats, the damned souls, to pieces break the empire. That's how it's gonna be now. Instead of uniting Serbia, to make it stronger than it is now, you make it weaker. You think it's a condition for entering the EU to destroy Serbia. Who will enter the EU if there is no state called Serbia? Who's going in? The Duke? A sword? Morality? If we are to enter the EU as echelons, how do you imagine Serbia's path to the EU? Through a body of a state once called Serbia? Then what do we need the EU for? Secondly, that pre-accession fund story is ridiculous. You know what Western economists say – there is no free lunch in the West. Where did you hear that the EU would give, just like that, a lot of love for our regions, so it would give money with a hat and a fist? Ask our neighbours, Hungarians, ask Poles, Czechs, what experiences they have had with EU pre-accession funds. Go to the Czech Republic now, the average salary is 200 euros. Is it better for Czech citizens because they are in the EU? Nearly 70% of Hungary's citizens are ready to ask Hungary to step out of the EU because of the standard of living they were brought into after 2004, when Hungary joined the EU. People, when you get money from pre-accession funds, the EU obliges you to take that money back to a certain time interval and you can't get any money out of your sight. You'll get some funds now, maybe, but that part of the funds will go into the pockets of various party officials, that's another thing. You might get a piece of the money, but we're gonna have to pay it back as a state. We're over-indebted anyway. I don't know where you think we're getting that money back from pre-accession funds, but I guess you know what's going on in the EU. Euroscepticism grows from day to day. These elections for the European Parliament have shown it best. People are starting to look at their own personal interests, national interests. Now what would the Germans, the French, the Spanish, the English, give money to our regions? They have their own problems, and they have a global economic crisis. I don't know how you pull that sign of equality -- here we are, now we're going to regionalize Serbia and we're going to get some big money. It's all on a long stick. That's all our people would say, "don't take a donkey to green grass." So, you're going to divide Serbia, you're going to take it out on the feeds, and then you say -- that's how a divided feud is going to make it easier for them to enter the EU. The time of feudalism has passed, Germany united, first in the 19th century, under Bizmark, then in the '90s, under Helmut Kol, but united. No, you will break Serbia, you think – we will live better when there is no Serbia, and then we will lose everything. So stop while it's time. Stop crime and corruption. Strengthen municipalities and cities and work to institutionally strengthen Serbia's state. This is the way for Serbian citizens to get better, everything else is the way to ruin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22258	The remaining time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 15 minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) On the head above Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Saric. Does anyone want a word? (No) At the title of the head above Articles 5 and 5, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22259	As I said before, it is important for us that regions, as statistical units, be specific. There is no need for us to define regions in this law, especially if we do not have compact criteria for this. You will see that Article 5 sets out the names of seven regions, three of which are automatically territorially defined and the other four are not; they are specific and their determination depends on the previous determination of the areas that make up the regions. And this map, if drawn, I repeat again, and for the sake of the public, this is not about any territorial organization of the state, or any territorial arrangement, or the legal subjectivity of those regions. The only trouble here is that those pamphlets are listed, in order to lead citizens to this way of thinking that maybe one day they'll become territorial units, which is probably your intention, but let's put that aside. These territorial continents are in four cases specific, and in three cases they are determined. It's an argument in favor of my thesis that you've done this Pamphletically and with the intention of sending a political message. It's not the subject of this law of sending a political message. The object of this law is to see how a state, a central state, can help in the even regional development of its own state. That's what we were just talking about. We said it was best to do it in such a way that the government, starting with the criteria of Article 4, which are very clear, would determine the regions, starting... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... I enter the time of the Parliamentary Group, taking care of the proposals of the units of local self-government, and in collaboration with the authorities responsible for the affairs of statistics. I see that the criticism of this amendment has been in the sense that units of local self-government cannot participate in the creation and determination of regions. You're absolutely right, they can't participate at the decision-making level, they don't have that capacity, nor is the purpose of this law to do so. But if you see from the structure of the text that we have submitted, we have just said – taking care of the proposals of the local self-government unit, because nowhere else in the law, as you have worked out this law, you have no, except through those of yours, which we have sought, the removal of the area, no other way that local self-government has a significant impact on this whole process. The only way to somehow get them into the story is this one, but nowhere does it say that the government is obliged to listen to that proposal, it doesn't stand anywhere. Therefore, there is no reason not to accept such an amendment, or that, if this is not accepted by the end, on the committee in charge of a different defined amendment, and that in this way a different concept, a different approach to writing this law, which would not introduce political confusion among the citizens of Serbia, has led to misunderstandings that we do not need at all, and that the work that the state has an obligation to do, the executive authorities that have the obligation to do so, is done in an adequate manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22260	The DSS Group has 14 minutes and 30 seconds left at its disposal. The word is wanted by MP Zoran Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22261	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. This is the key amendment submitted by the DSS and these previous amendments, and all those following this amendment are related to this amendment to Article 5. Why have we submitted this amendment, and why is it, in its essence, crucial? In fact, all the inconsistencies and lack of the idea of a quality proposal for Serbia's regionalisation are seen in this proposal of yours. You've defined yourselves for seven regions, and you've taxed them here. This has already been about what is already an administrative concept, such as Vojvodina, Kosovo and Metohija, the city of Belgrade, which has its foundation in both the Constitution and the Law on Territorial Organisation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, you are introducing new concepts, such as central Serbia, western Serbia, eastern Serbia, southern Serbia. We have shown you this inconsistencies and that political story is opening and that political fear, which is real, given many announcements that these statistical units, i.e. regions, can potentially become administrative regions. It's one thing and one kind of problem. Let's just stick to the fact that these are statistical regions. You, in your explanation, are merely suggesting that a large number of acts will be brought to define certain parameters of economic development, demographic maps, and you will only later make a personal map, both social and economic and economic and infrastructure, and you are just defining it. Then the key question arises – on what basis did you define it? Based on what, what parameters? What is it that connects Sabac and Priboj in western Serbia? What is it that connects Zaječar, Bor, Pogorjevac in eastern Serbia? So, for such defined regions, as you have presented them, certain data exist, there is a certain infrastructure connection. What's she like? Is she such as to guarantee even regional development? Explain to me what it means and what is the road connection between Zaječar, Bor and Fireman? I'm guessing that's where you went, through the Black Summit, the Frog, the Petrovic on the Mlava, then you'll get to the Fireman. When someone takes the highway, they'll get to Shid rather than the Fireman. Now, tell me -- how will you make, on the basis of this infrastructure connection, the road connection, to do business in the region, in Pozarevec, Bor and Zaječar, compatible, comparative, what does Mr Krasic say, if I correctly interpreted it? So, explain these things. What will investment in these regions mean? You mentioned some kind of bridge, not some kind of bridge, although when it comes to the government's promise, it's all kind of. So, you mentioned in the principle debate the Lim River Bridge, saying something about Prepolje, when there was some discussion. I wouldn't be surprised if in these discussions you promised bridges there and where there was no river, but there is a Lim de facto here. Explain to me what kind of economic, economic benefit it is for, say, Shabatz? Will that bridge on the Lim River affect larger agricultural production in the Sword? Explain these things to me. Explain how these regions will function? On the basis of which parameters did you come up with this division and make one of these proposals? Our amendment tells you, above all, that on the basis of these indicators that should be previously established, by consulting local self-government, respecting the opinion of local self-governments, namely citizens living in local self-governments who have the greatest interest in the process of regionalisation and decentralisation of government, government, and later the Assembly, based on economic, economic, infrastructure, social, cultural, historical reasons, determine together regions in Serbia. A smart government and a smart government would not come with such a proposal in the congregation, as smart government and smart government would seek the widest possible consensus. I don't see that we are arguing about whether this decentralisation of the government needs regionalisation, or whether it is, perhaps, when you are offered a little stronger arguments, your answers to show a little more to the Europeans and to play on a safe map of European integration and the funds that will come from Europe. But that's not working for you right now, you can't get away with it if you want to get into dialogue with DSS MPs at all. So we are for regionalization, it's not controversial, but one that would be based on the widest possible consensus, and political and social, where science, and statistics, and economics, and economic resonance, and local self-government would be respected, and therefore the citizens and the will of citizens, so that on that basis we can make economic economic economic continents that would make sense. I mentioned in the principle debate, isn't it logical that Srem and Machva, namely, the Machvanski and Sremski regions, make up a region? Somewhere around 400,000 people live in that space, close to 500,000 people, yes, over 500,000 people. We fit into the European nomenclature and could form a region. This is the area that should be with the most intense agricultural production, the Western gate, the gate of Serbia, with the most intense agricultural production, our strategic economic branch, which should be developed right here. Of course, he's still in Vojvodina, but this is some common denominator of these two regions. The Lima Bridge will certainly not help the region of western Serbia in which you placed Shabac. This amendment puts the whole law on its feet, unlike your proposals, where everything is set to its head. You gave yourself the right to arbitration and to divide it into some statistical continents of Serbia, with that, to say, a bit of a painful, scary sound, to slowly, firstly, probe, and to God, from some parties, and prepare the terrain to become administrative units. That's what the problem is. We don't see an economic resonance here, and neither can you, and you like to say you use facts. Give the facts – on what basis you have divided this. Here were the words that the region of Vojvodina, the region of Belgrade, each individually accounts for 30% of gross national income, which means that the remaining four regions, i.e. the remaining five regions, barely have 10%, or 10% of gross national income. If we adhere strictly to the principles of equal regional development, does this mean that all the funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also the potential that we can get from the EU, will be used and invested precisely in these areas, in order to oust gross national income, so that gross national income in Vojvodina, for example, in the perspective, in the next 10 years, is 16%, Belgrade – 16%, to reach that point, that southern Serbia, the town of Nis and all that that belongs there, and Leskovac and Vrana, as you have also determined, participate with 16-17% of gross national income in the country?- I'm sorry. Is that your intention? Then let's see what direction you're thinking, how you're thinking. You have no answers to these questions, so there is much more politics here than serious thinking about even regional development, much more political settlements and trade than the economic principle. That's what we've done in the first four or five amendments that we've submitted. You have a chance, I said, and in principle, you have two ways to get out of this thing with honor -- to withdraw this law. I'm sure you have no intention of doing this, but what would be smarter to you is that you've paid a little attention to these amendments and you've accepted them in full, so this law would be much better. You'd have the widest possible support for that. Like this, you decide to politically break things over your knees. Political trade is clear – by forming eight new agencies, who knows how many district associations. You in law say that on the basis of statistics you will see what areas the district agencies will make up. It's purely volunteering what you're proposing. The amazing administrative apparatus you're predicting, based on experience, and what we can read in the press, to change the name of the party in the region. It is clear that this is your party project and that you have abused your party project in order to save your party rating, and now you're putting us in a position to discuss this so late. Abused, made a political deal, that's allowed for you, and in the coming days, or months, we'll just see what the price of what's allowed by another party. Something that, as a party, you certainly wouldn't want to support under some normal circumstances, you're going to have to support, because it's called repaying the debt to the regional development law. Think again, accept this amendment. The amendment gives the right to establish regional policy on the basis of real parameters and to be established by the government. We do not challenge this right to the government, but to come to Parliament and to have, to say, the 'holy Trinity' – the opinion of local self-government, the government's proposal, the Serbian Parliament that will take responsibility for how Serbia should look in the future in terms of regionalisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22262	Anyone else want a word? National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22263	First I'm going to comment on Article 5's solution, and then I won't miss commenting on what we're discussing at this time. Maybe, even, it's better the way it works first. I really don't know if and why it's so important that tonight we finish discussing 362 amendments, because last night we worked in this room by 22 hours, and many of us travel 100 and 200 kilometers to our houses and come again in the morning. We were here on time, working all day and discussing amendments to this law started at 5:00, waiting for the government's opinion. I feel like I'm at some sports battleground, where the passing time is announced after every MP's presentation, and we've had the practice of asking when we're interested. Perhaps someone will acknowledge to those who are leading this session tonight, perhaps this will be called a victory in the race in time, but I wonder – is there one person in this hall who is willing to take responsibility for those who drive themselves, so tired, working in continuity, today is Friday, working day or work day, becoming a rule, not an exception, that, God forbid, something happens to one of the MPs. Mrs. Zlata Djeric left because she has to drive 200 kilometers to Somboro. My colleague Otto Kishmarton says-- I have two sons, I'm on my way to Kickinda for two hours, I have to go. Many won't mention them, because I have no right to, and they're in the same situation. My kids wouldn't let me drive a car this morning, they'd come for me. Mrs. Comic told me it would be around 24 hours, because Mrs. Kalanovic probably won't use her time to answer, not to stay until 3:00, because with these 12 and your answers to questions, it would be 3:00 in the morning. Think about how much you contribute to the dignity of this home, think about the security of those of us who are responsible for our work and how much this goes in line with this law and how much of the ruling coalition is responsible for this. I don't need any comments, no answers, because I didn't ask. I have the right to declare this. When it comes to Article 5, we have not tabled an amendment as a party, as a parliamentary club, because there are things you cannot correct with any amendment intervention. When you are defined by the region of Vojvodina, the region of KiM, as autonomy which has been said to be well-infected in their position and the way you exercise your rights, you can accept it, but in the name of which you have defined, just as a name, four regions – western, eastern, central and southern, without knowing at all what municipalities they belong to? In preparation for these sessions, believe me, I'm not even here to open those newspapers that draw the cards. I expect, as an MP, to receive, if necessary, a map of this material from the Assembly and professional services. No, we got a list at the end of the text, where they're given by points, as a review of regulations, 22 regulations, regulations, strategies, methodologies, decisions, which will be made. We are adopting a law that has yet to be defined and a map, allegedly, that will cover statistically only regions that will practice, literally, strategies, to practice self-management by 2020, when they will be able to develop internal administrative potentials and, indeed, very possible elections for some new way of managing themselves and regions as states. Have you recorded, Mrs Kalanovic, how many times has our historical memory been mentioned tonight, where we grew up, about the fragmentation of the empire and the division? Has anyone taken care of the modernization of the region's creation, as you claim, of the means of equating regional differences? That mention was not inappropriate, I can be laughed at by someone who doesn't like epic poetry, because it's based on our tradition that separation doesn't bring good. I will also remind you that all modern scientific research is saying that equating regional differences through the region does not have an effect. Since 20 January 1949, when Harry Truman, in the approach speech, first used the term 'undeveloped area' for the southern hemisphere, the North began in a very arrogant way to help the undeveloped South, and the undeveloped South began to feel sorry for itself. From then on, the idea of development has shown that it is not an orientation that balances regional differences, let alone leads forward. This idea is in ruins, although we are still trying to view it as a lighthouse, because in 1995, a Poland, which had a case of its five eastern regions participating in GDP with about 18%, produced 15.3% of GDP in the last year. It is not an exception that confirms the rule that regions contribute to development. The regional differences, which are not corrected by this way of equating regional differences, you have in Hungary, and they are bigger than in Poland, and they are even greater in Belgium, which has the same working principle. Why didn't you give us this as a comparative practice, which is, by the way, the way the laws are presented to us? Why don't you say that in achieving development in this way they're always progressing faster than undeveloped ones? In 1960, the countries of the North were 20 times richer than the South. In 1980, that difference increased by 46 times. It's not improvisation, it's not insinuation, it's data. When you gave us, even, this kind of language formulation of the region, did you manage the data that you have, that Vojvodina participates with 27% in the population and 26% in paid earnings and pensions, I'm talking about this year's data for the January-April period, and that Vojvodina is not homogeneous? Even they, and presented by Mr Jelko Kacin, at the end of last year, who helped to regionalise, do not want to, but they help you to achieve, not as regional development, the unification of regional development, which is a legitimate goal, claim that Vojvodina should be divided into three regions. Does this match our historical regions, the areas of Srem, Banat and Baka, do not matter. But it doesn't stand here. You're talking about the geographical section. These geographical divisions within the region are simply pointless, because we don't have quality regional traffic that would connect for example. Zajcar, Fireman, New Market, Priboj, Shabatz. This is the first thing we need to do, and then draw and publish these maps only of statistical regions within a single state of Serbia, with strong republican authority, government, authorities and local self-government, without indirect knees of money transfer and power. Belgrade, according to this data, participates with 21% in the population and 36% in the incomes. The other 5 regions, with 52% in the population and only 38% in the incomes. If we know, historical and empiricalally proven, that the developed develops more quickly than the undeveloped advances, do the other five regions have any perspective in this relationship of strength? Because that looks like that asymmetric state, it does look a lot like it. Breaking into five regions means further ruining their development opportunities because they have no capacity or potential to compare with Belgrade and Vojvodina. It can't be said that this definition has good intentions, because it will make even greater differences than the existing ones. They say the path to hell is paved by good intentions; this is one of the proofs of it. The legitimate goal is to work towards equating regional differences in development, to deal with depopulation, by reviving abandoned areas. It is, first of all, the need to create conditions for refugees in our own country, caught in the trap of development between the field and the factory, between the village and the city, in which they did not succeed because they were not able, but because someone was designing their own development, treating this area here as suitable for experimentation; today they have no place to go back, because in this and this kind of development they stopped being agricultural producers that produce even their own seed. They have to buy everything, and we haven't thought about it as a state, we've been following other people's examples, and today we've come to this point that we want to do it in an unsuccessful, unreal way, so you can't talk us into good results, you can't, because this concept has no results. If there's any of what's called awareness that this law is bad. As well as the responsibility of a government that has no only arrogance in front of it, a clear authority, from my function, claims that I am right, please withdraw this law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22264	The time available to the SNS Parliamentary Group is 14 minutes. National MP Jovan Palalic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22265	It is doubtless that article 5 has also caused the biggest controversy in the public, and that is, to say, the central place of this law and for the proposer himself. We have repeatedly said in the principle debate, in the debate on amendments, that the other members cannot be assessed as those who will have a clear impact on regional development policy. They don't have as much power as Article 5, which defines regions, something that's the most controversial and something that really needs to be talked about. I see that this has caused a great deal of discussion, with the right, apart from the fact, Madam Chairman, which are citizens, instead of watching this debate about an extremely important law, watched the Lakers – Orlando game video, from the American NBA league, which is really embarrassing. It's a great public interest in this subject. There is an impression that this topic is hidden from the public's eyes and if this delayed footage is somewhere around 01 and 02 hours, I'm afraid this important debate, one of the largest to be conducted in one country when it comes to the objective of equal regional development, will be extreme. What's ours, the DSS concept when it comes to this subject, is this. We believe that the issue of statistical regions should be the result of the established policy. Whether the regions will be an instrument for implementing regional development policy, the answer will only be given by policy and whoever forms this policy – the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why would we tie our hands to this or to another government to implement that policy? Why should we tie her up so that this regional development policy can be implemented exclusively in these seven regions? Why did the billmaker focus on nomenclature number two? Why is she the most necessary, why isn't it number three? Don't say it's a condition for the EU. It is hardly possible to say that Croatia's counties can be subdued under nomenclature 2. They don't have that many residents. And can we say that they haven't solved that problem? They solved it, even with the Constitution. So this is one big delusion, because this is trying by a political party, which has a completely legal political goal -- to regionalise Serbia in political and administrative terms, to prepare the public. It's been done these days, and that preparation is now, when it's supposed to be exposed, resolved by the citizens watching Lakers-Orlando game. The essential steps of one serious regional development policy are next. We must here, in the National Assembly, as representatives of the people, say what kind of regional development Serbia wants, what it is that the strategic objectives of regional development and that policy are for the next 10 years. Under the policy, the government will determine statistical regions and implement regional development policy through these regions. If that policy gives results, or does not deliver results, regions will change. At the end of the implementation of this policy is an instrument aimed at developing Serbia regionally and reducing differences in the development of certain regions. We have defined these regions, i.e. The government, as one thing that will be in Serbia forever. We thus force the government to establish on this basis what development policy is in Serbia. It's a completely wrong concept. No serious country in the world does. Statistical regions are changing. They are an ordinary instrument of a single state's development policy. It should be the foundation of a serious government, and we have declared them the most important things in development policy here. Of that, of those seven regions, three of us have already fully defined – Vojvodina, the Belgrade region and the KIM region. They're territorial... They're legal entities. You can't say they didn't. Most importantly, the other statistical regions that would be formed this way in Serbia would be completely unequal in terms of competence, in terms of their capacities. It is also said in the law that the regional development strategy is brought by the executive bodies of the duchy government, perhaps the Assembly, does not matter. In Belgrade, too. And who brings, say, the southern region? Government. It's a terrible paradox and a terrible contradiction in this concept. Let the government of the Republic of Serbia come out with a strategic document in front of the National Assembly and say -- this is a policy Serbia should be leading in terms of regional development. Here are national representatives from all municipalities and cities in Serbia, so let's discuss how the government should develop South, Vranje, Nis, Zaječar, Sabac, Subotica, and then, based on its mandate, bring strategic documents, consult local self-government in Serbia. Based on their mutual interest and connection, statistical regions are formed, best on nomenclature number 3, they are more natural. Now, you have some cards that have come up, where Smederevo and Tutin will be in the same region. If someone from the government can say that Tutin and Smedereva will be in the same region because they have common touch points, it will be very difficult to convince someone. On this basis, monitoring the implementation of the regional policy, such statistical regions do not give effect. Let us replace them with a new decision, new consultations with local self-government. This must be a way of not obliging future governments to run the exact same regional policy, in the same framework, which does not result. We believe that this member should be changed, that it should be set at the level of principles and possibilities, not defined by regions that should tomorrow, that is the essence, that is, the key to this law, grow into political entities. It is not a secret, that the representatives of the government and the promoter, the one who explained this law in this assembly, Mladjan Dinkic, said very clearly – it is politically legitimate. But it shouldn't be a way to get one of these bad laws into the congregation for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22266	The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is seven minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) To the title above Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22267	I'm using the time that belongs to the SRS Parliamentary Group. For the sake of the public, this is such an important topic that there are only eight members of the government and 30 MPs of the opposition. It's proof of what the government thinks when it comes to what you put the subject or the title of this law. Before I start with the right criticism of this concept and at all this way of thinking about something that, Kobajagi, regional development, I need to draw attention that you couldn't find a constitutional basis for this concept of the law, even, you couldn't find a constitutional basis for the name of the law. Here's why. You've applied to Section 97 of Sections 9 and 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and I must draw your attention to the fact that it says nicely that the Republic of Serbia is regulating and providing for the development of the Republic of Serbia. How does it provide development? Through all regulations, through all programmes, through the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Development is a permanent job, which the Republic of Serbia is doing. However, since that socialist time, we have both negative and positive development rates, but development is a permanent process. The task of politics, the government's task is to ensure development, and that's the end of the story. See the Law on Local Self-Government, First and Basic Activity, or Part-Circular, or the jurisdiction of local self-government authorities is a programme for the development of the municipality, the city, regardless of what kind of development will be – positive or negative. This development security obligation shall be met through all laws, any regulations which are on the agenda, as this is the original jurisdiction of the Republic. When the constitution states that the Republic of Serbia is in charge, then some of the following provisions show what is the state authority responsible. Then it is said, "The people's congregation, then the government, then we move on." The next thing you stated in the list of constitutional bases, is policy and measures to promote the even development of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia. There's no region. It is written on purpose – parts of the Republic of Serbia. But you have a problem not only with the synonyms, but with the meaning of some concepts. Let me remind you, we had municipalities, cuts, districts, so there were bananas in one period, and autonomous provinces, and then republics, and so on. KIM was an area at the time. Each of these concepts has a very precise political and etemological meaning, but you don't know anything. To distract you, near Nis there is a municipality of Doljevac; for 70 years there has been a fight between the people of Bukovec and Doljevac. 70 years ago, the municipal place was Bukovac; the communists came, turned it into Doljevac. They haven't reconciled yet. Now you're making a little bit of a mix-up. It's similar between Barbarian and Obrež. There's still a conflict between them. It's a secret conflict. The rivalry between the settlements, if we're just going with legal terms. However, your obligation is to promote even development. Equal development does not mean equal, does not mean equal, but care and care to ensure that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, in every place, that any point in the territory of the Republic of Serbia can enjoy the same rights as the one in the centre, or in the epicenter. The fact that someone lives in a hole and has to walk 15 kilometers to a medical clinic is a warning to anyone who is in power that they must and that citizen to provide what the one in the city has. That's why it's going evenly. There are no citizens of the first, second or third order. The state guarantees everyone pleasure, the use of freedom and rights, but you don't care. You've got money here. You don't have money. You don't have money. Let's move on. You stated – including the development of underdeveloped areas. It's a special obligation. It's this positive discrimination at the collective level. The constitution stipulates that there must be, by law, a little more for the underdeveloped. To know where they are undeveloped, you need to find some criteria. There used to be criteria. The last obligation arising from the Constitution is a balanced and sustainable regional development. This is where the word – the region appears. In what sense does the word "region" appear? In political, territorial? No, but in the sense that the state has to take care of something that's wider, which goes beyond local self-government. You see, when someone in the Assembly talks and says, "I'm taking care of the Serbian people, the words "Serbian people" can have a populist meaning, to include every citizen in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, they can have ethnic meaning, as in the Constitution the words "citizen," "citizen," they also have some meanings, and you have misunderstood, tendingly wrongly, as the concept of regionalization with decentralisation. If you said decentralisation, then you entered the political and territorial division of the Republic of Serbia. That's where you're supposed to be banned. Why? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia knows state power and knows something that is local self-government, which is not government. There's no such thing as between. In the Russian constitution, there is state power, local self-government. Let me remind you, we used to have this so-called. We have a communal system, not a system of local self-government, much different than this, but we have also had a bond – inter-municipal regional communities, with their congregations, where some responsibilities have been transferred, where decentralisation and deetatisation and capular expansion have been carried out, to make the government as close as possible to the citizens. The concept of regionalisation in Serbia – academician Jovicic gave up his concept before death, accepted by the DSS, and he escaped from it, in terms of political and territorial division. It was even some idea of cantonisation on Kim, and it gave up. There was a concept called the so-called concept. Two-degree local self-government. It's given up on that, too. Every normal, smart person in this country is giving up. Why? We are a very small space for such locks, because the separatist aspirations have not been extinguished in this narrowed Serbia either. We used to have -- Serbia, two autonomous provinces, and what is, that is -- narrower Serbia. Now we have seven enjoys of Serbia in the concept of G 17 plus. You won't get away with it. We won't let it pass. No more tearing. Tear up your houses, your families, don't tear our country apart. We don't have a spare state. We will give you support, create a new, modern, European region, a large Serbia, from Knin to Belgrade. Why don't you stand up for it? It's a real region, both ethnically and geographically, and compatible economies, and the same people, the same language, the same customs. No, you think it's funny, you're laughing, you're looking forward to it. A community of modern regions. Do you know of this Danube region, the Vatican project, Otto Habsburg announced it in the European Parliament 20 years ago? You're all funny, happy; only where the money is, there's G 17 plus. The only thing you're serious about is taking money. We won't let you break up the country. We don't allow it. We inform citizens that the hellish plan for the destruction of the Republic of Serbia is not over. These few days, the media has been acting like geese in the fog, so they can't concentrate. They'll be waiting for another election, and then they'll do something. Remember when the concept was accepted that the territory of the Republic of Serbia would be given administrative districts, for 15 years there was a kind of struggle between local self-government units in an area covered by the district. The administrative district is understood as a set of inspection bodies of republican importance. Now you're skipping it too. Bojan Pajtic skipped even municipalities, funded elections for local community councils directly from his fund, because he had no confidence in the DS Municipal Committee, e.g. In Vrsca. Now the election's on Leader, the DS is sharing phones. Now some say – vote, we'll pay for your electricity if you have to. It's your concept of regional development. For ten years nothing from the City Assembly could be invested in the territory of the municipality of Zemun, but the almighty Gilas passed, as Santa Claus, Christmas Bata, pave this, fix the elevators, fix everything. It's not a matter of jurisdiction or a building permit, just hold the water until the masters leave, to cheat again. We won't let you rip up Serbia. We don't allow it. For this concept of law, you have no constitutional basis. You say – access funds, we have to regionalize, because that is also a European standard. That's not true. Even when you were talking about certain elements or criteria that you are considering, you forgot the basic criterion – potentials, possibilities, geographical, physical, biological, one space. Someone was saying there's an organic unity between Lim and Capac, and it's being looked at in a bridge that's supposed to be built on Lima in Prepolje. It's crazy. You're able to represent everything as something epochal, and "Fiat," and free stock, and banks. You said you'd hire 500,000 people; you've already fired 150. Every month 10,000 people, and you always smile, funny to you, nice, nice to you. Do they have something to eat? You don't care. The important thing is that in Zemun you gave five new containers, a little bigger, so if the one that's pulling out of the container falls, it won't be removed from it anymore. You're disturbed by the living people in this country. How can we give you support for that? Just laugh. You see these who aren't here, they always laughed when I said something, and I told them – you'll come in a few months to tell me I was right. Everyone came to tell me I was right. I'm right about everything I told them. Here, they're gone, they're gone. They went to the board of directors, and now they're going to fight there. There goes Pajtic, there goes Gilas, Miki Rakic, in turn, who's to blame. Lost 250%. Why? Because they didn't have a citizen, a man, his rights, his freedoms, his opportunities and his right to live. A special law has been passed on the financing of local self-government, which is the same as Junior – we will solve everything. Very precise criteria, within the framework of the budget system, there will be no transfer funds, here Minister, this party etc. What happened? 15 billion lost in the rebalancing. Local self-government can't win. So what are you going to the local election with, these extras? How can you promise when you took away 15 billion dinars at the beginning? Or what was it yesterday, Milan Markovic, how are you going to the local elections, and you say 22,000 local self-government people have to fire? That's what they hired them all for these nine years, and now they're kicking people out. They're always right. Why? Because they're a smileable etalon, it's Gilas and the media that will support, even those media that are under the control of Mladjan Dinkic, because they've won the "faj" space and now the media, if it can be finished -- hold the thief, there's somewhere, and the fox has taken the meat. This law can't live, we don't allow it. What's the policy ratio to this law, here's your joke. If the law is so important to you, then we should have replicas here, not this chamber, or the commutative situation, choose what suits you more than the expression. That's why you let it go, because of RTS' contractual obligations, that people enjoy basketball, so they don't hear this. This is what people feel on the street every day. (President: The time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group has been used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22268	Please. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22269	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the LDP, or the three of us, have submitted this amendment ahead of our parliamentary club, whose essence is that the National Assembly will be the one who, on a proposal from the authorities responsible for the affairs of statistics and after a public debate, will determine the regions and areas that form the regions of Article 1, paragraph 1. We thought that the National Assembly, as a legislative body, would in a transparent way determine those regions and areas that are important for the sake of this new statistical regionalisation of Serbia. The government has rejected this amendment and given us a very strange answer to why it is doing so. He says - because these jobs are the government's jurisdiction. Normally, we know, because that is the essence of our grudge, that the problem is that the government is the one who determines these regions and areas. Let me just point out in advance that I'm going to use the time of the Parliament Club, so I'm going to continue the exhibition for two minutes. As the government explained why it refuses the proposed amendment, the law on Serbia's regional development also passed. So this law had two basic objectives, which resulted, literally, not only from the provisions of the bill and the arguments set out in this proposal, but also from the discussion of the MPs themselves. In addition to all the strategies and objectives set out in the proposal, the first objective of the proposal is to draw attention from the fact that the time has come to discuss the Vojvodina Statute, that the time has come to pass and the law on determining the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina, given that we have been waiting for these two acts since October 2008. In order to justify, in some way, this inaction, or perhaps some disagreements that exist about Serbia's serious decentralisation and the giving of the Vojvodina of those fundamental rights, which we believe are indeed the few, are the most minimal ones, because the 2006 Constitution defined the content of the autonomy of the province of Vojvodina, therefore, to conceal the fact that it does not even wish to agree with the minimumism of the province's competences in terms of the Constitution and its contents, suddenly, by an urgent procedure, this law on regional development of Serbia appears. Confusion is obvious when it comes to this bill, and in principle, as well as in particular, because, on the one hand, it is said that this is an introduction to some decentralisation and more serious regionalisation and in the administrative sense, and on the other hand, it points out that this is just a statistical story, which does not contain any more serious intention of completing the work of regionalisation and decentralisation. Therefore, the law is unserious because it does not give clear messages and goals what it actually wants. It is clear that what I have already said is not wanted, and this is a serious decentralisation of the government in Serbia, serious regionalisation. Without that, there is no even regional development, because the centralisation that is foreseen even by this law on regional development is so obvious that I simply cannot imagine how you think to justify this law with what you signed in the SAA, which is evenly regional development, which, among other things, contains the fact that Serbia needs to be both territorially, economically, and statistically, and functionally, regionalised, in order to achieve this objective declared by the SAA, and this is a balanced regional development and acceptance of certain standards which are in Europe and how at a price, which is decentralised of the state. So, if we start from the assumption that the basic objective was to, on the one hand, remove the issue of Vojvodina and its statutes from the agenda, and, on the other hand, to meet certain requirements set out by this authority in terms of decentralisation, then it is clear why this bill creates such confusion in the debate by MPs. When you mention that you want to make it easier to access IPA funds in this way, therefore, in order to develop regions and in this way, with the help of European funds, do you really believe that we can accept this segment of the law in terms of financing the region, because access to these funds takes a little bit more than what was offered by this bill? Among other things, it may be necessary to define territories, therefore, to restrict these territories, not only statistically, but rather seriously, in order for these territories as a whole to be a base for some administrative authority, which could once again give logistics and infrastructure to be able to distribute applications to funds and control the spending of these funds. Without all that, without serious control, there is no funding from Europe, and you know it very well. So if it all comes down to statistics and statistical territorial units, there's really nothing. When you opened this new kind of territorial organisation of Serbia, you gave the existing organisation another one. In fact, we have local self-government, we have municipalities, 150, we have 23 cities, we have the Province of Vojvodina, we have administrative districts; they're all kind of territorially defined and defined. However, the common denominator of all of them is that there is no talk of any more serious independence, not about municipalities, not about administrative districts, not about cities, nor about the provinces. So, what other species do you say, statistical territorial divisions of Serbia, when you already have all these kinds of territorial divisions that would give you the opportunity to do a more serious analysis of how to do Serbia's even regional development? What is the problem, if there are already these administrative districts, which have been established and established as they have been established, by a government act? We also claim that the Government, however, should not decide on any territorial organisation and regionalisation, so these administrative environments have shown how pointless they are, how dysfunctional they are and how far they do not play any role, so most likely these regions of yours will show themselves in the same way. So if you already have all this, I don't see why through these local self-governments, through these municipalities, these administrative districts and the existing provinces you wouldn't be doing all these statistical analyses of yours, and that's how you ended up doing your job with regard to those pre-accession funds that you're actually most invited to. In fact, you, on the one hand, probably calm the tension in circles of the existing coalition as regards decentralisation, and, on the other hand, you give some hope that there will be money; Europe is about to give these money, especially when it sees this law. You will probably vote and adopt it, given that only four, five, six are present, and perhaps a little more MPs, that I do not now count them, the ruling coalition, which means that they will most likely, as obedient voters, be present and vote. They don't care at all about the discussion, the argument, the pro and the opposite, they know they'll have to pass the law, so they'll probably pass the law. If that law is the basis for any demand, competition for these IPA funds, I don't expect it to produce results. If we start from the fact that this law does not have some serious basis in life that Serbia, in this consolidation of forces, such a territorial organisation and such a centralised authority, has no future, no matter how much we declare Europe, then I see no reason to point out other failures in particular, the other states other members of this law, because, literally, they are brought only for one reason – to give an alibi for something quite different from what we have declared. When it comes to the strategies set out in the light of the legislative proposal, which is the Strategy for the Regional Development of the Republic of Serbia, the strategy for poverty reduction, the National Strategy for Serbia's EU accession, the Strategy for Encouragement and Development of Foreign Investments, as a whole, I have not seen any sign of the fact that these strategies will find a foothold in the provisions of this law. In our opinion, this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. This law should follow only after the issue of Vojvodina's statutes and the law on the determination of Vojvodina's jurisdiction, only after the regionalisation of Serbia has been established, in the sense that this regionalisation will be done using the right criteria, both geographical, historical, and functional, and economic; only then will we be able to discuss statistical regionalisation. Starting with statistical regionalization, and to ignore everything else and get away from it, we only get one make-up, we only get one form and a story, because with this statistical regionalization, in fact, we get nothing. We are getting only a political story and that in some ways the number of administrations, the number of agencies and all other accompanying parts of a high-burdened government in Serbia is increasing. It's obvious it's necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22270	People's MPs, time available to your MP's group has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22271	I'm also an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22272	You'll use that time too?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22273	I have that authority. Therefore, I don't think Serbia's citizens deserve to bear the consequences that it is necessary to find a job for an ever-increasing and larger number of party workers in the coalition in power. I don't think it's really time to increase the number of administrative workers, and that's exactly what we're doing with this law. Again, the burden of the crisis, the burden of any change, we place on the citizens, and the problem is that this is not a change, that this, as I have already mentioned, is actually a political story. However, this political story has far more serious consequences than the story of free action, which was quite current and many believed in it. This story, in fact, only stops Serbia's development, stops, as I have repeated so many times, and I will repeat a thousand more times, Serbia's decentralisation, and without that decentralisation, with statistics, we certainly won't get what we're campaigning for. There are no European values without decentralisation and this is one of the essential conditions for EU accession. Therefore, until this serious topic in Serbia begins, we can only talk, delay things and generate increasing and higher costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22274	Time is available, as an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group, for 13 minutes and 30 seconds. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants a word. The time is available to the MP's group for seven minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22275	Thank you. The amendment of Mrs Judith Popovic and her colleagues from the LDP Parliament Club is due to my reporting and this is a very interesting occasion. If you look at the content of that amendment and compare it with the content of the amendments submitted by the DSS, you will see some similarities. The similarities are that in one case and another your political-pamphletic idea is rejected that the National Assembly, without any arguments and any evidence that you possess, submit a proposal that the Assembly today, in the context of this law, determines some seven regions, of which three are territorially defined, four determining. Of course, you're saying it's government business. That's where I caught you inconsistencies. The reason you reject Mrs Judita Popovic's amendment is, among other things, the following. She and her colleagues suggested that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia set up regions after a public debate, following a statistical report, etc., and you tell her in an explanation like this – in accordance with the nomenclature of statistical territorial units and recommendations of the EU Statistical Office, the determination of statistical regions is within the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, based on the expert proposal of the Republic Statistics Office. That's what we've been telling you all along, it's in the jurisdiction of the RS government, Mrs Kalanovic, according to these criteria, and you say in law, in Article 5: "For the purpose of encouraging regional development, the following regions are being determined." Who determines them here? The Republic of Serbia. What else does Mrs Judita Popovic tell you? He says they should be established by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We didn't tell you that in our amendment. We said it should be done by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because we've read this stuff of yours in various reasons, even in the light of your law. We said, if the situation is what it is, if you are already pulling us by the nose and dragging the citizens of Serbia by the nose, making confusion with the debate on the alleged territorial organisation, which is not at all on the agenda, but you are imposing it specifically, not through this law, but through political prejudice, then define yourself as one of the rational, logical solutions. One solution, which we have suggested, is that the government determines the regions, and that this law gives government instructions as it seems, and another solution is that the National Assembly determines the regions, but not as pamphlet as you have done, but as the LDP gentlemen have suggested. You also get the rest of Mrs Judita Popovic's statement, which was clear, a series of remarks by two parliamentary groups that are on two totally opposite sides of the policy, where in some essential things we cannot agree on, nor the eyes see. You get 75% of the material that's identical. Why? Because it comes from common sense and some expertise and rationality. If you don't accept any of this, we haven't agreed on what we're going to talk about, it means there's something wrong with you and not with us, it means that you should put your finger on your forehead, to imagine. If there is a problem here, and obviously there is, rational action and the last hope for you was that before this debate in particular, or during the debate in particular, ask the President of the National Assembly to call for a resolution committee, so that it sits down and looks at what amendment solution is possible, if it is not possible to resolve Judita Popovic and Milos Aligrudic, which is an amendment solution that is possible for you not to make something out of this law in Serbia, which would be a private front of G17 plus. No, but you have made a compromise with your DS colleagues to allow you to savage as you wish, to make a circus out of this country, to achieve both tactical goals, to get Mladjan Dinkic whatever he likes, to branch out one monster administrative network through this law, which will cost dearly the coat of arms of citizens and those citizens who live hard in regions that are lagging behind, and that, on the other hand, Boris Tadic, as Judita Popovic, said from the completely opposite political party, blurs the public's eyes because this assembly, or DS, is not able to deliver to the Assembly's statutes of Vojvodina. Although we are against this statute, it does not speak of it, but of the ability, or inability of the ruling coalition to carry out the essential tasks of the state. That's where you are and what is the fundamental problem of this law. We will continue to report, of course, on the amendment, for our two minutes, as we have submitted them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22276	The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is two minutes and 15 seconds. National MP Milan Avramovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22277	Mrs. Komic, I would only ask you to use some of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament, to call on Article 27, to read Article 60. Serbia's constitution, which says everyone has the right to respect the dignity of their personality, safe and healthy working conditions, necessary protection at work, limited working hours, daily and Sunday holidays, etc. I must draw your attention, on my personal case, that we are on the 48th amendment right now, that my amendment is in 320th place. So, another 272 amendments I have to wait, times two minutes, and that's a pretty long time. Therefore, I ask you to take advantage of the provision of Article 98(4) which says that the President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly in other cases. Because if you think that on Friday, at this late hour, we have a quality debate about this important law for you, you're wrong. You must interrupt this session, first, because of the transfer, and secondly, because of the psychic and physical ability of the MPs to participate in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22278	People's MP, you abuse the right to a word obtained under Article 100, by quoting the provisions of the Constitution and the desire to probably say that it's hard for you to do what I understand, of course. The People's Messenger throws it away. No, I'm not having a hard time working and I can do as much as the work of the National Assembly's session requires to be done, now and during this evening and longer, because I think Serbia needs a lot more work, everyone needs a lot more work. Please don't abuse the law. National MPs Milan Avramovic and Zoran Popovic earn and violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I have allowed MPs from two or three MPs to call other MPs and describe them with epithets that are inadmissible under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, neither do you have the right to ask where any MP from any of the MPs is, nor do you have the right to express your views on what any other MP is thinking, and we all know that in this room well, so please don't do that. If you're tired, you have time to take a break, rest, refresh and return focused on your work and defend your amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) National MP Jovan Palalic, yes, you have two minutes at your disposal. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22279	I apologize to my colleague Palalic. Quite briefly, Mrs. Comic, that you would not always stay right, although you think you are, I still adhere to this Rules of Procedure which, unfortunately, is not current, at least not since we moved to this room, but as far as what my colleague has advertised. The article 85 doesn't give you the right to make such explanations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22280	People's MPs, you can only point out a breach of the Rules of Procedure for a part of the session that immediately precedes your conviction that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. The 85th was in use just 14 hours ago, when I extended the session. I ask you not to abuse the provision that gives you the right to the word; you are already warned that this implies the pronunciation of punishment. We should all be aware together that we have no right to abuse the rights given equally to everyone. National MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22281	The President-in-Office, Mrs. Kalanovic, is just explaining the amendment tabled by counterpart Judita Popovic about the confusion in the government during the establishment of this bill. The government says in its reasoning, rejecting the amendment, that only the Government of the Republic of Serbia can establish regions. The bill says – for the purpose of encouraging regional development, the following regions are determined and seven regions are listed, and the government, on a proposal from the statistical authority, determines the areas that make up the regions. I'd like to hear representatives of the government, which other region of the government can determine on the basis of the reasons she gave? This is total confusion. The DSS suggests that the government educates regions based on consultations with local self-government. The government refuses, it says – it is determined by law, the National Assembly. Mrs. Judita Popovic proposes to do so by the Assembly, the government refuses. In his explanation, he says - that's what the government should do. We're really becoming an object here, so I have to put it this way, you joke. Someone needs to explain to us what the government was thinking in determining the region. Two amendments, two different concepts, two rejections that are completely contradictory. It is amazing to the extent that the government is playing tricks on the way it explains to the MPs that the amendments are rejected. I'd like to hear from the government's representative, which region of government can determine on the basis of the bill? That would be interesting to hear and explain where it says it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22282	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here, you get a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22283	Thank you. Mrs. Komic, I think you know that the 85th member has more attitudes and I'm not sure that this attitude that I want to advertise...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22284	People's MPs, you had a clear warning. The 85th was in service about six or seven hours ago. You have the right to speak on the basis of Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure in the course of a session just before you asked to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 85 wasn't in service five minutes ago, not 15 minutes ago, not an hour ago, but seven hours ago. I give you the last warning, before you force me to give you criminal measures, based on Article 100, because one of the views obliges me to give you a warning, if you insist on abuse of the right to a word obtained under Article 100. The word has a minister. I apologize, MP Milan Avramovic. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22285	Mrs. Komic, of course I wouldn't take your time, it's too late anyway, I just want to draw attention to how I interpret some of the provisions of Article 100...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22286	People's MP, please read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you're looking for a word based on article 100, you can't get it for that to say how you interpret some of the Rules of Procedure. You have to tell me which provision of the Rules of Procedure has been violated, to wait for the explanations. Since you have been given the word on the basis of article 100, and you are not talking about the injury of any member, but about your impression that any member should apply, it is abuse of the right to speak. I'm warning you, that's the reason for the warning, and I'm asking you not to do it. Thank you. Minister Verica Kalanovic has a word. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22287	You've just injured Article 27 and Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I warn you once again, as a fellow MP, because I have done so many times in months after us. When a person reports that he is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have the custom not to listen to the People's MP what he has to say to you, but to break him in half of the sentence. Come on, let the man say something, and when he finishes the sentence, he doesn't have to last for 30 seconds, when he finishes the sentence, then, if you're so sure of what you're saying, stop and say he wasn't moving in the right direction. It's just that it's not right. That's amazing. I know it's late, there's no direct transmission, and it's gonna be delayed, but maybe someone will watch. Believe me, I'm telling you the most well-meaning thing. You violate the Rules of Procedure in this way, you abuse your rights and obligations, which have been given to you by the Rules of Procedure, in the position of the Chairman. You can't read your mind, it's not your role, it's your role to listen to people. To listen, it doesn't mean to interrupt someone in half a sentence, in a place where they haven't even gotten stuck yet, let alone the thought ended. That's what I'm responding to, Mrs. Comic, not other things. I can't know what our colleagues wanted with their intervention on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I know what I wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22288	People's MP, you didn't even explain the violation of Article 27, and especially Article 100, because you received a word based on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to abuse the rights given to us by all Rules of Procedure and, when you want to talk about Article 27, to see that I take very careful care of the order in the session and the equal application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and that I do not allow abuse of rights. The abuse of rights is as much a violation as the fact that there is no right at all. So there's no breach.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22289	You are obliged to address the People's Messengers, and those who advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, with respect. That's what Article 104 is about. Article 100, why did I say that now? Because you provide explanations based on complaints about the violation of the Rules of Procedure which have an offensive connection within them. An offensive connotation is that you make those who report to you for hurting the Rules of Procedure crazy, as if they don't know the Rules of Procedure, as if they don't know what Article 100's connotation is. When I answered and said that I thought you had injured article 100, I meant all the views of article 100, including the one that points to your need, or the obligation to comment on the presentation of the MP who made an objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're under obligation to tell me if there's any injuries or no injuries. That's what I meant. So, when I said you hurt Article 100, and about Article 27, I was thinking about it, and you're saying that the injured Rules of Procedure are interpreting it so that it hears the public in the transmission, how I'm supposed to have no idea what it says in article 100 and how it has nothing to do with Article 100's injury. Of course there is. It has directly to do with the violation of article 100 on your part, in relation to your obligations and the rights set out in that article.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22290	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. You can see, whenever there's a delayed transmission, that I treat everyone with respect without commenting. I'm explaining that there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If it's obvious that you're referring to article 100, and we both know that the injury you want to point out doesn't exist as the basis in article 100, then I'm saying it as an explanation. The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22291	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as someone who has always dealt with executive authority and by doing concrete work, I can't handle words so well, but I want this misunderstanding about the amendments to determine the region to be completely removed. The government will, on a proposal from the Republic Statistics Institute and in accordance with the criteria of certain EU standards, establish areas that form all three regions. It is clear that regions are not saying they are territories. It is clear that the territories form areas, that the areas form a district, one or more. Without drawing new borders and disrupting the Law on the Territorial Organisation of Serbia, respecting the Constitution, the government will, on a proposal from the Republic Statistics Institute, establish territories that fall within these seven regions. It is clear what the Government is doing, what the Republic Statistics Institute is doing, what the Ministry of Statistics is doing, and what the Assembly is doing. Without a desire to call on religious or other elements to help, it is clear to you, on the basis of an explanation, what is the government's job in determining the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22292	National MP Jovan Palalic wants to use the right to replicate Ms. Minister's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22293	I would like to hear what territory will the Government of the Republic of Serbia establish for the Vojvodina region, or the KIM region, maybe Bujanovac is on that territory? What territory will the Belgrade region have? Let's hear what the government is going to determine when it comes to the Vojvodina region. I would very much like to hear what else it will belong to Kosovo and Metohija compared to what is defined by law. It's just amazing. The government has defined regions in this law. There's nothing. That's what we're up against. Now you're saying, we're going to have something special compared to the Vojvodina region. Maybe Shabac will be in the Vojvodina region, maybe it will be, and it will be the government now to determine, and maybe it will be... Here, someone says that Bujanovac and Preshevo should be. Maybe we'll say that too. Please admit that you've made confusion when you've written the law, especially when it comes to reasoning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22294	MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a representative of the Government to reduce his passions here in the Assembly. It is that some of my colleagues complain that we are working this late, at a time when we are not working, but I also agree with colleagues who claim that the government has no right to take the job away from the National Assembly. You can blend in, Mrs. Kalanovic, as much as you want, to convince me that it's a government job and the Republic Bureau of Statistics, this is the job of the Serbian Parliament. If that bothers you, your party president, who is already in several laws, especially when he was Minister of Finance, may have the right to annul the decisions of the Assembly, the laws we make and the judgments, to propose such a law to pass our statutes to Mladjan Dinkic and G17. Would that be best for you? I believe that, I just doubt that after that, you'll end the election and rule for life, because that's your goal. When it comes to this law, regardless of what some people are concerned about saying that this law is necessary for Serbia, how are we going to make a strategy out of this law, how are we going to get out of this crisis, out of our misery, I would like to ask you, those of you who support this law – and what, now, what is in existence in the current legislation, which prevents this government from carrying out all those measures, programmes and everything else provided for in this law? You've already got all that legislation, and you can keep your head down for as long as you want. We have local self-government. You've made administrative districts, not you, someone's built administrative districts, and it's supposed to be some sort of bond between the government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government, just these programs to coordinate with the government, the national strategy, etc. And what was the function of the administrative districts and the chief of these districts? Well, to whom the mandate is to be taken away, to form which assembly majority, how local self-government will be disbanded. You've violated the state administration system, and this is just one excuse that's there, that something's going on, that something's going on, apparently good. I doubt anything good can come of you. What's new? What's new, we can see in article 19. This is where you envisioned, except for the existing National Council for Regional Development, the National Agency for Regional Development, Regional Development Councils, regional development agencies, regional associations. I'd like to ask you gentlemen, when you write all that well, who's going to pay for it? Explain that. What money is that going to finance? That's funny to you, Mrs. Kalanovic. I'm saying that if the ministers and your colleagues had at least half the money they've used for the past 10 years back in the budget, we wouldn't need these three billion from the IMF. That's funny to you. Okay, no problem. I'd like to ask another question. This division into developed areas and underdeveloped, did it exist in Serbia? Yes, it is. What's going on? Well, someone figured it out, so they went to the local administration. Now you're doing this regionalization, no matter how different you think it is, you're doing it. They also invented small municipalities that they declared undeveloped to draw funds from the Republic of Serbia. What did they do with those funds? How's it going? Someone made roads, tried to build a factory, but what's worse, you lifted the status of undeveloped municipalities, and now you have municipalities that are cripples, who cannot support themselves, for which you constantly transfer jurisdiction, but you don't give them funding. And then you talk about some regional development?- I'm sorry. One more thing, I will report to you safely during this debate once again, do not brainwash us with the story that it is modern European legislation, that nothing threatens Serbia from this regionalisation. Since you've been in power, Serbia and how things happen, consecutively, ugly things. Some of you are responsible, some of you are not. I can't blame you all, but for what you started, you're opening Pandora's box. The excuse that this corresponds to contemporary European legislation and stories that this country, the country, have a region, have provinces, have developed decentralisation. I agree, they do, but they have an orderly state, so when someone goes to the collapse of the constitutional order, from 40 to life imprisonment. In America, someone goes into the collapse of the constitutional order just because they write in the notebook something that will disrupt their constitution, and end up either in the gas chamber, or in the electric chair, or being put to sleep by injection. With such legislation, you can make decentralisation, not here, for the MP to announce to me the map of the Republic of Vojvodina. Isn't that the destruction of the constitutional order? Yes, it is. Why aren't you responding? If you were to close for 40 years, I don't want a death sentence, you'd have a serious problem, you wouldn't have a collective partner. The worst, Mrs. Kalanovic, many of your party would be closed. You're the ones who've been propagating that independence of the Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22296	The time available for the Progress Group is seven minutes and 30 seconds. On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22297	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, the Honored Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5(1), which I propose to delete point 1). To explain what this is about, I'm going to read the whole article 5. The member reads – for the purpose of encouraging regional development, the following regions are defined: the Region of Vojvodina, the Belgrade region, the Western region, the Eastern region, the Central region, the South region and the KIM region. ''The Government, on a proposal from the authorities responsible for statistics affairs, sets out the areas that make up the regions of Article 1. "Ladies and gentlemen, isn't there enough division in Serbia, hasn't history taught us anything? In the past, the Western powers have broken and divided the SFRY, both the SRJ and the SCG state union are breaking and Serbia are taking away KIM from us, now they want to create a crisis in northern Serbia, in Vojvodina. The DS regime is now helping them to, regionalise Serbia, do what was done in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, by creating Croatia's Banovina. The SRS believes that this bill undermines the integrity of the Republic of Serbia and is contrary to the Constitution, in particular Article 8(1) – the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. If you wish to prevent further destruction of our country, I urge you to accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22298	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22299	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, such as this is the "top" law, as the Minister said earlier, this is a "top" member who makes this law unacceptable to the SRS and a member who shows that this is, in fact, a concept of regionalization, not regional development. The SRS is for the balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Serbia, but we have said this on a completely different principle and on a completely different basis. Balanced Serbia's development for the SRS would be a insistence on the principles of politisticism, while improving the mechanisms for controlling urban expansion. For us, this would mean creating a positive investment climate. For us, regional development would mean raising the standards of administrative procedures, from local level to the level of the Republic, and all together would create preconditions for the state to provide funds from access funds. What we're talking about tonight, what we were talking about the other day, is selling fog. This represents the dispersal of the state tissue. Unfortunately, we do all this with a mockery of the government's representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22300	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 5 states that it is one of the regions and the region of Vojvodina. The Vojvodina region, along with the KIM region and the Belgrade region, is one of the regions for which the respective historical names, or names from the Serbian Constitution, are used. We could hear these days from representatives of the ruling coalition that one of the reasons for the adoption of this law and the fact that the Republic of Serbia is currently asymmetrically arranged and that this asymmetry should be corrected, by which certain status should be given to other parts of Serbia, not only the AP Vojvodina. However, if you adopt this law as you have written it, it turns out that again certain parts of Serbia will not have all the competencies and all the institutions that the AP Vojvodina has. This means that Vojvodina will continue to have its executive council, its executive assembly and its regional secretariats, plus, it will have everything you propose to have other regions, but the other regions will have neither executive nor assembly nor their administration. That exactly what the SRS claims, that you, in this way, at a small door, are introducing Serbia's regionalisation in terms of its division into regions as administrative and territorial and political units, is precisely this fact. After this law, certain parts of Serbia outside Vojvodina and outside KIM will not have autonomous status in terms of autonomous provinces and it is clear that after this you will probably pass some new law, or you will access constitutional changes to... (President: Two minutes. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22302	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments in the same text were submitted to the title above article 6, by MPs Zlata Djeric and Boris Aleksic. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22303	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment to the title above article 6 is such that I have suggested that the title be deleted. You've heard what our position is on this issue, and I'd like to point to a series of illogicalities, of course, how much time I have. The Serbian government, in its explanation, stated that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is Article 97, point 9, among other things. Article 97(9) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says this - that the Republic has jurisdiction over sustainable surveillance, environmental protection and improvement systems, protection and promotion of the plant and animal world, for the production, transport and transport of weapons, toxic, flammable, explosive radioactive and other hazardous substances. I really don't know where the government in this article has found the basis for passing laws introducing new regions into the Republic of Serbia. So transporting flammable, explosive, radioactive and other dangerous substances. I don't know if you've even read the Constitution. Now that you're giving an explanation, make sure you write something too much, because this is pure insolence. We had at the beginning of a session of some representatives from Transylvania who attacked SRS MPs, in particular, MP Martinovic. You may be introducing that region soon, but it's really not right to call on a member who talks about the traffic of flammable, explosive, radioactive and other dangerous substances, without introducing regionalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22304	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted the amendment to the title above Articles 6 and 6 together. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22305	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, I would ask you to take a look at your left-hand side, where the G17 Group is sitting, plus how many MPs you have, even though you defend this law as a representative of the G17 plus, which speaks of how much interest your MP group is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22306	National MPs, 30 minutes ago, I warned that such statements were on the verge of a serious breach of obligations under the Rules of Procedure, which implies that you do not have the right to count MPs and to express what you think about what some other MPs think or do not think or want. I really ask you to try to explain your amendment without trying to make a serious violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that bind us to mutually polite treatment. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22307	It would be good to address both Serbian citizens and tell them – good morning, as this transmission will be seen in the early hours. MPs and DSS MPs' group, when the debate was in principle, warned you that the law is extremely bad and should be withdrawn, for the simple reason that it also brings nothing good to the citizens of Serbia. That's why, in the form of an amendment, we tried to amend this bill, because the law, as I said, is no good. However, the government has rejected all of our amendments, citing that they are not good and do not fit into this concept of Serbia's regionalisation. I must remind you that we have requested to delete the complete article 6, for the simple reason that we think that areas, first of all, do not exist in our constitution, and then, because the introduction of these areas creates new jobs. In our opinion, the districts can do that part of the job, for a simple reason, because they have a professional service, they can do that part of the job adequately. In this way we send a clear message to citizens, that these structures, new institutions only serve to employ new G17 personnel plus and that this is a tactical trick by Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who wants to employ a new workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22308	National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, based on article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22309	Thank you. It is about the application of Article 27 in the broadest context of this matter. When you interrupted the MP, Mr. Pejcic, you warned him to do something that was on the verge of the incident, or even. Under the threat of a misdemeanor, to punish for some offence. I'm trying to see the provisions that give you that authority and I don't find them in the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Comic. If it is Article 104, he is very clear about the duty of MPs to address each other with respect; there is no word about a ban on counting or finding out whether there is or not anyone interested in political matters here. When it comes to Article 101, it is about the reaction of the MP himself, and when it comes to Article 100, it is about the objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the MPs, but I do not see any foothold, in any provision of the Rules of Procedure, of such a reaction as you have had. That's why I think you violated Rule 27 because you misused your own powers given to you on the basis of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22310	There's no damage to article 27. I have applied the provisions of Article 103, which gives me the right and obliges me to interrupt an MP who speaks if I consider it on the verge of committing a violation, which is what MP Aleksandar Pejcic was, as he is now doing, getting out of place. National MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Milos Aligrudic are getting from the post. National MP Milos Aligrudic continues to throw out of place. Please keep an eye on the entire session. I am really trying and I think, by your reactions, that I am able to apply the Rules of Procedure strictly and equally to everything. When I warn you that you cannot express your views about those who are not present or those who are not present, then it refers to the business obligations that oblige us all to speak of one another with respect and respect for one another, as well as respect the dignity of the National Assembly. To make any remarks about the political views of people who are not present is not a communication that is polite treatment. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Mrs Comic, I ask that we plead in the voting day, I do not throw it away. It's not a throw. ) In the day for the vote, the National Assembly will declare the injury that MP Milos Aligrudic stated that the chairman had done just before this moment, that is, at 21.50. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22311	Article 27(1) and (3), with regard to Article 103. The 2nd position of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says - a MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility for a voiced opinion or voting in the performance of his parliamentary post. Mrs. Komic, we've been listening to you all afternoon, for five hours, and it's amazing how many times you've broken the Rules of Procedure; you don't even allow the MP to tell you earlier that he wants to make a statement in Parliament's voting day. I don't know which way to put it, only to make a plane and write a text, so we can send it your way. Mrs. Comic, I believe you're exhausted. You see, none of the vice presidents want to change you, you sit there all day and it's probably not easy for you. I understand, but if you don't have a concentration, admit it, so tell us to split up, and let's get on with it when you get a good rest. As you can see, we are rested, fresh, orni for work and we have no problems. What we're pointing at is not because we don't want to, we don't want to or can't, but because it's inhumane, because it's contrary to the provisions of the Labour Act and because you obviously, as a best example, show that a man can't concentrate enough if he enters this room at 10, and now he's almost 10 in the evening, and he's at the same level of concentration. Please keep an eye on the rules of procedure, not abuse. Please, since I know what you're going to answer, in the day to vote, the Assembly states whether or not you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22312	Please. There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you have misused the right to receive the word is, because in the explanation that the injured Rules of Procedure quote the provisions of the Constitution. The MP who is delighted to respond to the explanation can consult a stenogram and see that the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radeta quoted the provisions of the Constitution which have been violated by my application of the Rules of Procedure. It's possible someone here is missing concentration, but it's not me. On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The assembly will declare your request to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22313	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this amendment to Article 6 is very similar to the amendment that I have explained to Article 5, except that the amendment to Article 5 proposed that the Assembly decide on regions, and this Article 6 again proposes that the Assembly decide, but not more on regions, but that the Assembly determines units of local self-government, urban municipalities that form the area, as well as the names of these areas, so that the Assembly determines the areas. The misunderstanding came about with the previous amendment due to the government's argument. I should like to draw attention to the fact that you, Article 5, have, say, listed seven regions, and we have asked that our amendment, in fact, to delete in law those regions that are marked, all seven regions, and that the Assembly be the one that determines the regions. In your explanation, you said, "No, not the Parliament, but the Government." You don't need a government, because you already have a government proposal here. So there was this misunderstanding. I didn't particularly want to explain, given your explanation, I assumed that the explanation was at speed given, since we waited until 17 hours for the government's explanation of the amendments. In fact, we remain in our position that the Assembly is the one to decide... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... on such an important issue as the formation and determination of the region, even if it was statistical regions, as well as areas, because when you say that a sublegal act will regulate this issue, I immediately have doubts, because these sublegal acts, these government regulations, do not work; very often these government regulations are illegal, if they are illegal, they are also unconstitutional. The constitution stipulates that sublegal acts are in accordance with the law. Therefore, if we leave it to the Government to determine these areas, and we have seen that there is no way that the Government can determine the regions, because it is already contained in this legislative proposal, then we have a situation where there is the possibility of a discretionary assessment of a small number of people who will determine those areas. We don't know what the criteria are to establish those areas. We do not know in which way you will gather these municipalities, how you will gather these administrative districts and make areas that will grow into these statistical regions. I repeat that fundamental objection to this law, that we are now laying down two other institutes, I don't know what to call them, two more territorial continents, these areas and regions. So, in addition to having municipalities, we have administrative districts, we have cities, we have provinces, we now, in addition to all that, we also determine areas and regions. When we had a smaller number of these territorial units, or now that we have them, we didn't know and we don't know how to use them, in that sense to reduce these differences in regional development, we didn't do enough, and we expect simple statistical territorial continents to change the situation. He won't. So for years, we've been detaching funds for the development of certain areas, parts of Serbia, we assumed that this would work to reduce the difference. The result has not been reached. Therefore, where do you come from with the idea that, just by changing statisticalally, you will also reduce this poverty gap, because, definitely, the whole of Serbia is poor? Regardless of what is supposed to be Vojvodina's development, look at the map, what that developed Vojvodina looks like, which its regions, which parts of the Vojvodina cross that average of development, so you'll see that it's a stereotype, that the illusion that Vojvodina is divine as it's developed. The illusion is that Belgrade is so highly developed. We used these criteria for poverty quite badly. Serbia is all poor, Serbia is undeveloped, and with this bill, nothing will essentially happen. The important thing is that once and for all, things are explained about what the congregation is responsible for, and what the government is responsible for. When we have Parliament as a legislative body, which also has a control function, the control of functions towards the Government, according to the executive body, according to the executive part of the government, it implies that transparency is much better and much clearer than when the Government determines and determines something. We have experience with these sublaws, we know how it works, we also mentioned in this room what happens when the government takes a legislative role in sublaws. Therefore, we remain with that amendment that we have explained. I'm sorry you didn't understand until the end. We remain with this amendment, which is essentially the same. So, the assembly should decide which areas it will be in the regions, which will grow out of these areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22314	Time available, as the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, for another eight minutes. On top of article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22315	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we have already said, the SRS is against the regionalisation of the Republic of Serbia. We've presented a series of arguments in favor of that. I have recently stated that in the proposal for a Regional Development Act, which is on the agenda, in its explanation, it has cited as the constitutional basis for the adoption of a law on regional development as Article 97 of point 9, which speaks of production and transport, arms transport, toxic, flammable, radioactive, and other hazardous substances. Probably, with this regional development and this law you want to achieve a balanced schedule of toxic, flammable, explosive, radioactive and other dangerous substances. A really illogical explanation. That's what I was talking about. You are predicting, among other things, the Region of Vojvodina, the Belgrade region, the KIM region. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are calling for in your explanation – the need for Serbia's EU accession. The European Union's umbrella organisation dealing with regions, regions and ethnic groups is called the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups. It, among other things, works in the Republic of Serbia, and since I don't have time, I will only announce - its founders are orthodox Hitler's Nazis, people who were engaged in ethnic groups, regions and regions in the countries that Hitler occupied during World War II. I'll also present concrete evidence from the French and German sources that speak for it, but since I have two minutes, I'll do it some next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22316	On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic put together the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22317	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, at least those who are in the O.R., the others, I won't comment on their views. We have submitted an amendment to Article 7(3) in which the motionor wrote – the degree of development of Article 1 and 2 of this article is determined by the Ministry of Regional Development. We believe that the degree of development of the region and units of local self-government, as regards attitude 1, i.e. the degree of development for urban municipalities, which is Article 7, paragraph 2, should not be determined by the Ministry of Regional Development. Why? Consistent to the concept that we have presented, if you accept our amendments, and I see from the Government's report that you are not, we believe that the government is the only authority that makes decisions on statistical regions, which should also make and establish the level of regional development, because it is quite logical that the decision-making body on statistical regions should also make a decision on the degree of development of these regions. What's he gonna make that decision on? Based on the reports and analysis to be carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development, it will bring the reports and analyses based on statistics from competent authorities, competent institutions. That's what would be a normal order, a legal order and what's logical. But if you have a problem with logic, by putting this law on your feet, and you don't listen to those who understand what it's about and offer you a concrete suggestion that you should fix something that's really raving, I wonder – is it possible that you don't see it, or is the question, in fact, that you don't see it for some reason?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22318	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22319	I'll take a second, I'll finish thinking. We are here to point out to you everything you do on purpose and not to Serbia's well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22320	At the title above Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22321	I am taking from the time of the mandated representative of the Prosperity Group to Serbia, as counterpart Mico Rogovic is absent due to the illness. The amendment proposes that the methodology provided for in Article 8(2) of the Law be adopted within the time limit, to add a new position and set a 90-day deadline in which a methodology is to be adopted; that deadline is significantly shorter than six months, which is foreseen as a general deadline for entry into force of this law. This is what we wanted not to help the government put into office as soon as possible this law, but to point out that the most important elements for the adoption of this law are neither specified nor prepared, although there are official data in the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which is all the time mentioned in the law as a competent body for statistics, knowing that since 19 June 2007, it has been announced to the full vote that such a law will be passed, starting with the Conference of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which has been held in fruit with the European Agency for Reconstruction, and with this presentation of the EU's proposal for regional social and economic development of Serbia. Mr Dinkic announced that he would propose such a law, that he would be committed to balancing regional development and draw attention to the serious problem in some border municipalities where citizens move from. I don't see any reason why we're passing a law that's only a frame without any essence, where we don't know what the regions are, what the methodology is, we just know that the ministry is going to determine the degree of development once a year. I have to remind all my colleagues, and those who have been sent to electoral processes since the parliamentary system exists in Serbia, that in the way of reading and shaping the region, at the time the SPS, as the ruling, rules exactly election units, and here you are, regions, in line with precisely defined needs, wanting to focus results. They were doing it until yesterday, wanting to get votes, the largest number of votes possible, given the known support data they have, the control they have over certain regions, and you are now delaying the announcement of that methodology from, quite reliably, the precise reasons, which should allow you to channel funds tomorrow according to this methodology that will determine some cities and regions less or more developed. I recommend that you do not use all your skills and knowledge for the purpose of your own survival and for the purpose of proving your power, as we have the opportunity to see tonight from whoever runs this session. Please give strength, knowledge, a desire to work, which we all have, not focus on exhaustion. Excuse me, on this occasion, Mrs. Kalanovic, for looking at you, otherwise, I mean the chairman, that we really don't lose our strength, our energy in exhaustion. This is the 12th hour of today's work and, believe me, I have no intention of competing in what is not smart, but in concentration, knowledge and work, in any case, on this side of the bar, we are willing to take advantage of every moment of our time and make the right arguments. Be prepared for it tonight, though one of my colleagues is rudely challenging you to cigarettes, and you don't have any comrades to replace you in that place. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22322	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) To the title above Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22323	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of those technical amendments. We just wanted to make a little more specific, to more precisely mark this member of the law, and for this reason we asked that at least 75% of the republican average social gross product per capita be entered into the first group of regions, instead of the sentence the Government put into the bill. The government proposes it to be those whose rate of development is 75% and above 75% of the republican GDP. Isn't it much simpler, more rational and smarter to mark only the lower limit, at least 75%? However, there is obviously no will to accept the opposition's amendments, so I suppose for this reason it is decided that this amendment, which is indeed technical in nature, is much simplified and gives the opportunity to better interpret this provision of the law. Apparently, the government comes from that assumption that she can. So, if she can, that's what she does. He has no serious will to co-operate with the opposition. I've already pointed out once that this law itself is bad. This law is no good either politically or legally or in any other way. I'll use some more time I have left. I also said that I would no longer talk about the amendments, but given that you had just misread your own explanation of why the amendment is being rejected, I think you still need to be reminded of every mistake you make and so on about one simple technical amendment. I suggest you decide to adopt it anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22324	On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22325	Article 9 defines the classification of regions according to the level of development, in two groups: in the first group there would be regions whose rate of development is 75% and above 75% of the republican GDP average per capita, in the second group – those regions whose level of development is below the republican average of GDP per capita. With the amendment of intervention, without any malice, for the reason that I did not find this information anywhere, not just me, but not all my colleagues who deal with the profession, the people who write scientific papers, so they lacked that information, specified the provision that the basis for determining the degree of development of the article's position would be the GDP per capita, not interfering in the way you defined it, but who published the authority responsible for statistics for the previous year's work. In your explanation, you told me that all the data used is official, and I'm telling you that I filed the amendment because that information is not available, it's not published anywhere. Why did you not give me an explanation as an MP by saying, in response to the refusal of the amendment, that information is so much for the past year, and in this year we publish it? I'd believe you if you had that information. You may have it, but the public doesn't. We can't claim that it's a criterion and a criterion if we don't know what the basis for determining the degree of development is. I found information on the Ju-Es-Eid website, as assessed. (President: Two minutes. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22326	To the title above Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we also announced in the principle debate and in particular, just a moment ago, that this way of sorting the region towards a degree of development is quite unspeakable and banal. In some ways, you've simplified all of this quite simply, referring to European standards. It would be interesting to tell us if you could apply the European average, so that you could define the development of the region and if there are any of the regions that you have defined in these seven that could meet the conditions of one of the European regions? We believe that such a banal division, in principle, hides the disparities of Belgrade and all other regions in Serbia and that it would be acceptable and smart to make it even more layered, because with such division, certain regions, below average compared to the city of Belgrade, will be defined as regions, and objectively do not deserve, by economic and statistical parameters, to be classified in the same basket. This is one of the evidence that you were not prepared to focus seriously on policymaking, or the development of individual centres, but not on just five or seven centres in Serbia, but on raising the level of development of local self-government, border and rural areas, which in one serious and comprehensive way would ensure the balanced development of the Republic of Serbia. Like this, divide it banally, just into two groups... (President: Two minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22328	On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22329	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll continue where I left off last time. It is clear that even after the adoption of this law, if you adopt it as proposed, parts of Serbia outside the territory of the AP Vojvodina will not have all those bodies that Vojvodina has. We can expect that after this law, we will probably get some new regulations, and amendments to the Constitution of Serbia are possible, and a whole new constitution is possible, who knows, where you will turn regions not only into statistical, but also administrative and territorial units. Then you will be able to say that Serbia is no longer asymmetrically arranged, that all its parts are arranged in the same pattern and that they all enjoy the same degree of autonomy, or some kind of self-government. Such a concept of decentralisation, which you stand for, Serbian citizens and the Serbian economy, which ultimately has to pay all of this to provide the necessary financial resources, will not be able to endure. If you really cared about the economic development of each part of Serbia, then you had to take a completely different path. You had to strengthen the Serbian economy, strengthen our financial system, make it possible for the judicial authorities, the competent state authorities and the state authorities to implement the fight against crime and corruption in general. These are the basic preconditions for Serbia to start developing economically in general. You've taken a completely different path. You're going to divide Serbia, you're going to parlay it into a larger number of feuds, and then you think it's going to solve the problems in itself. Unfortunately, it won't, it'll create some new problems and then we'll get into a chain of problems. One problem will give birth to another, even bigger. So the question is, what is it going to be with our country after all, how is it going to work, by what parameters?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22330	Thank you, People's Messenger. The time spent to discuss amendments has been used. On Article 10, the amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Marina Ragus. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the amendment to Article 10. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22331	We'll get right to it. The draft law found in the previous article two groups of regions, one of which would be the regional level of development such that at least 75% of the GDP average per capita, or above that, and the other group includes those regions whose development is below 75% of the average. The next article, to which this amendment applies, defines underdeveloped regions. The first group, rightly, includes regions that are in the second group in the 1st member; these are regions that have below 75% of the GDP average per capita. The problem arises that there is another group of regions that would fall into insufficient development under this bill. These are those who have experienced a demographic decline in the period since the 1971 census, until the moment they are observed, which is the decline of the total population in the area. Trust me, that's not enough argument. We have submitted the amendment, with a correction, which says that with this condition should add another, cumulatively, that it should be those regions that belong to the first group of 75% averages to the average, not to the average, because only those two joint arguments can give results, the rest is really funny. You can imagine a situation where you have under 50% of the population and that everybody lives very well, the ones that are left. It's theoretically possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22332	At the title above Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22333	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 11, implies the classification of units of local self-government according to the level of development. In line with the level of development, you said that the units of local self-government were classified into four groups according to the level of development, and then said – according to the degree of development, the type, purpose and height of incentives that the state would assign to the development of local self-government units will be defined by Article 96, and then it is said that the users of the incentives, as well as the way in which the incentives are given, are being organised closer to the development documents. You define the development documents in Article 14. You say they are made in accordance with the current spatial planning documents. I've read the statement by the Minister of Spatial Planning and his ministry, which will really be included in this whole story of yours, and I've tried on several occasions to point out the importance of defining the planning documentation that you want to do, and I'll talk about it later. Eighty percent of municipalities covering the undeveloped municipalities of this country do not have spatial and planning documentation, valid documentation based on which they could make valid development documents. My question to the government's representatives, based on this fact, is how much will the process and procedure be to produce adequate development documents on which to determine incentives and how they will be used in local self-governments that are defined as undeveloped? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22334	On Article 11, the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as serious as the government has been in preparing this pro-European reform law, which needs to bring the legal system of the Republic of Serbia into line with EU communal law, tells the fact that the government has called, among other things, for Article 97 point 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. See point 9: "The Republic of Serbia regulates and provides sustainable development; the system of protection and promotion of the environment; protection and promotion of the plant and animal world; production, transport and transport of weapons, toxic, flammable, radioactive and other hazardous substances". I would really like Mrs Kalanovic to explain to me what the regional development in Serbia has to do with a system of environmental protection, protection and promotion of the plant and animal world, production, transport and transport of weapons, toxic, flammable, explosive, radioactive and other dangerous substances? It has nothing to do with each other. I think it's funny when government representatives come to the National Assembly and pompously announce their bill, as if it's a miracle unseen, that nowhere in the world exists and that in itself is the solution to the problems that Serbia faces today. When you close a little bit by what it says in the draft laws, then you come to these unbulful conclusions – that the Serbian government was incompetent, even, to find a valid legal basis for what it proposes, and it wants to convince us that what it says in the bill is best possible and that they had the best intentions. They did not even have the decency to read the Serbian Constitution and to find an adequate basis for their bill, because what the government has cited as a legal basis is absolutely not a legal basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22336	On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22337	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The proposal is once again to delete point 3 of Article 11. I've already brought out a series of data. So we're against this kind of regionalization. I have stated that this concept is being advocated by the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups, which is a roof organisation dealing with regional, regional and ethnic issues in Europe. In front of me, I have documents published by French and German experts, including General Pierre Marie Gallo, who is the creator of the French nuclear deterrent doctrine. He wrote, among other things, a book called "The Fear of the People Who Always Say No." In his book, he states: "Besides the founders of this federal Union of European ethnic groups", which had a project that was very similar to the government of Serbia's project, "are followers of Hitler and Hess, among other things, Karl Masman, then Ernest Neuman, who was SA adjutant, and many others." Among other things, this organisation publishes a magazine called "Europe of Ethnics", and "Europe of Ethnics" is a follow-up to the National Socialist List "About Blood and Race". At the very top of the first edition, whose facsimile we have since 1961, it is clear that the count of years begins from the year when this Nazi magazine stopped coming out and continues with the next issue. So they are openly praised here by the tradition of this paper that dealt with ethnic groups, regions and regions at the time of Hitler. These are very important things. They were written by people who are highly professional and educated, primarily from the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22338	On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22339	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this article defines underdeveloped units of local self-government and highly undeveloped local self-government units, first those defined in Article 11, and then the units of local self-government in which the demographic decline is in the period from 1971 to the year observed is more than 50%, and the community of local self-government units in the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija. What you can see is that KIM and everything that connects to that autonomous province in a very interesting way has been deployed in application, or defining through this law. Why the Community Unit of Local Self-Government? Why aren't the local self-government units from KIM? There may be doubts here - what is the intention, will this also be defined only to use funds in who knows what ways, who knows what ways and channels, or will this really be the country's commitment to dealing with local self-government units in the KIM territory, which, with your blessing, is occupied by Eulex? I wanted to point out one fact, and I think I mentioned that parameter earlier, which is the level of administrative capacity, from local self-government, to republican, or state administration. I think in municipalities that have had a demographic downturn since 1971, so, say, more than 50% you can assume what the situation in the local administration is and how much it will be willing to respond to all the requirements you define in the spirit of European standards and promote them through this law. A lot of illogical, indiscretion and inapplicability.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22340	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22341	The amendment continues with the amendment explained by counterpart Milos Aligrudic, precisely for the reason that, when it comes to the position of underdeveloped local self-government, those related to the demographic decline are also strengthened compared to the republican average. I would also like to say to the present Minister Kalanovic, if anything is good in this law, then just for the article. 11th and 12th I can say that the good parts of the law and I think it was unnecessary for the entire matter of the region to be elaborated in this law, when exactly through Article. 11th and 12th, you have a good basis for building a regional development policy. You are the Minister for the NIP and we all have information that there are separate significant funds for underdeveloped municipalities, which is one way to lead regional development policy. Then, by introducing this concept of the classification of units of local self-government of first-degree development, you completely unnecessarily introduced regions and began to discuss the development of the region. No one in Serbia, when you've counted these seven regions like this, can tell you at once what development classification they would be placed in. When you look at the law like that, it seems like it's all written because of Article 5, and it's completely unnecessary. I think it was better to leave freedom to the government of the Republic of Serbia to build the concept of statistical regions, and based on Article. 11th and 12th, you can easily divide municipalities and cities across Serbia based on these criteria and therefore, as one of the parameters, create statistical regions and the concept of regional development. Once again, in the end, let me say, although I think the whole law is bad, the only thing left to remain worthy of in this law is art. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22342	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in Article 12, item 2 of Article 2 of the Law states that the highly underdeveloped units of local self-government are also considered units of local self-government in which the demographic decline in the period from 1971 to the year observed is more than 50%. Remember, when you adopted that unfortunate and ill-written Law on Prohibiting Discrimination, that the MPs of the SRS warned you that one of the bad consequences of the law would also be the deterioration of demographic, or imagery in the Republic of Serbia. Instead of the government taking all measures of economic and social policy to encourage birth in the Republic of Serbia, to encourage young people to conclude marriage and to have children in this marriage, it has defined itself as something completely different – to promote various types of sexual depravity, to promote everything that has been considered abnormal in the Serbian people for centuries, as bad, as harmful to the survival of families, nations and states. And then a man finds himself in wonder when he reads a sentence like this, where you laminate over the fate of municipalities where demographic decline is, and nothing as a government has done to stop this demographic fall, but you've even taken everything in your power to make young people, literally, pollute marriage and the birth of a new life, because it's 'conservative, outdated, not fancy', not in the spirit of Euro-Atlantic integration. In the spirit of Euro-Atlantic integration, there is something completely different. The question arises – how do you think to stop a demographic decline in a situation where young people, instead of traditional family values, offer something that is quite contrary to those values... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... when you have not taken any steps to make it easier for young people, first of all, to get married, to have children, when you have done nothing to provide these young people with a job, an apartment... (President: National MP, the time available to you for the interpretation of the amendment has been used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22344	People's MPs earn that the MP cannot be directed because he has no watch. There's an hour on the electronic panel here, and I doubt that MP Aleksandar Martinovic can't be directed. If you look at the timing of the last six amendments, each time it was 12 to 15 seconds more than two minutes, so he and I are both great time-oriented. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22345	The proposal is to delete in Article 12(3). In Article 12, you're talking about a demographic downturn. Of course, demographic decline also affects poorer economic development, but you must understand one thing – the promotion of negative natural origin exists in many international organisations, unfortunately, and in the UN, above all, through programmes such as family and birth control. Among other things, it is promoted at EU and Foreign Relations Council levels, where the grey eminence of the West is also found. Many intellectuals, many diplomats in these organizations, say the planet Earth is overpopulated. There are even certain projects that should bring our planet's population down to two billion. These are very specific projects. First of all, they count on climatic elemental accidents, various types of pandemics, etc. This must seem familiar to you, you can check it out on the official U.S. Foreign Relations Council website. They're taking that data out because it's easier for them to control the entire planet if there's fewer inhabitants on it. The stories of the planet's overcrowding are pointless, a team that almost the current population of the Earth could stand in the United States and families would live quite easily. Since you're here to call on Western liquids, you'd have to think about it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22346	At the title above Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22347	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, so that there is no confusion here, or delusion, the SRS can indeed share an opinion with counterpart Palalic, who said that all the categories that are defined are art. The 11th and 12th and, ultimately, this list of developments that are defined by October 31st of the current year, to be defined by the Ministry, are really the things that are necessary. It might be smarter and more rational if we had talked in the spirit of a completely different normative or legal act, that one such serious thing, which needs Serbia, an analysis and a definition of investment priorities, investment and development projects, would not be brought into the context of Serbia's regionalisation, i.e. creating preconditions to create some new legal and administrative entities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is just another proof that this law has been made quite hasty, carelessly, on the one hand, when it comes to the benign matter of this law, and all because of that malignant, which refers to the dispersion of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this position in this article speaks a lot about the proposal for a single list of regional development, units of local self-government and urban municipalities of the Ministry of Preparation based on data from the authorities responsible for statistics affairs for the previous year. There can also be concluded and evidence that even and regional development, or balanced development of the Republic of Serbia, could definitely come out of the framework of regionalisation and define and promote the abstraction of all political aspects. Thank you. On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22348	On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the Serbian government wants to gain this law in time, in the sense that it postpones its face-to-face and the fact that Serbian citizens have not fulfilled any pre-election promise. It is obvious that Serbia's quick entry into the EU has nothing, as the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic admitted in a direct manner. The question is what will happen to visa liberalisation and whether the promises you made will come true. Now this should serve as some new promise to the citizens of Serbia, which is that it will live better when Serbia is divided into regions. So, you citizens of Serbia who have been promised to produce 300,000 cars in Kragujevac, you citizens of Serbia, who have been promised free action, which we promised to enter the EU in two to three years, be patient for a little while, we have just written a great law on regional development, so when that law starts to apply, you will probably get better. As counterpart Stevanovic has well noted, you have avoided prescribing deadlines in which these agencies and these tips will be educated. So, the law goes into effect the next day from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", but there is not one single deadline within which these agencies of yours, these associations and these advices should be educated. That means, you Serbian citizens will probably live better, we don't know, though, when, but be patient a little longer – except you don't live better, only you haven't joined the EU. It is obvious that you had no other intention but to blur Serbian citizens with one more eye and tell them – be patient a little longer, we have passed one in a series of laws that should improve your standard of living.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22350	On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party is not for this way of regulating Serbia; Serbia is too small and too large a government has to pass one of these laws. Perhaps, somewhat anemic, the prime minister of the government should at least try to imitate Vladimir Putin and ask his fellow ministers what they have done well for Serbia in the past few days. But since our government has no prime minister, it is already the Feds of certain political parties, I think such a single question would be quite excessive. It is also seen that this law is quite fast, quite inextricably and inextricably done. Besides, we tried to fix this law with amendments, but according to that people's "free is a deaf whisper and a stalemate," which is, in this case, government, this amendment has been rejected. I'll read, if not MPs, then citizens who are awake at four or five o'clock in the morning would know what it is. My amendment was rejected for the reasons that all statistical data supplied to the Ministry of Regional Development in order to prepare a proposal for a single list of regional development, local self-government and urban municipalities, official data from the Republic Statistics Institute for the previous year, as referred to in Article 7(1) and Article 13(2). Let's take a look at what it says in Article 7 paragraph 1. (President: Two minutes. ) Madam Chairman, I fully understand that you are already quite tired and nervous, and I know that you can no longer drink water, and I will use the time left for the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22352	I thank you for your concern, but there is no need, two minutes I tell every MP, so that everyone knows how much is spent from the time of the parliamentary group or the time of the authorised representative. You have at your disposal the time of the Parliamentary Group, as well as counterpart Tabakovic still has the time of the authorised representative. Both you and everyone else. Feel free to continue, these 45 seconds will be added to you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22353	Twenty-five, all right. Article 7(1) states – the degree of regional development and units of local self-government is determined by using indicators of regional development and units of local self-government, in accordance with this law, and based on data from the authority responsible for statistics affairs. My amendment, both to Article 13 and to Article 7, referred to published data from the competent authority for statistics affairs. The government says that officially every piece of information issued by the Republic Statistics Office is. I can't agree with that, I can even claim that there are internal documents and internal data that can serve as some basis, but they cannot serve as data on which to bring in some legal or sublegal act that has a certain legal force. The same thing in Article 13. I'm sorry that Mrs. Kalanovic is not here to tell me where it says it. He's here. He's hiding. Where does it say in the law that the government is exclusively taking official data from the Republic Statistics Office? I'd like him to answer that question for me, but apparently it was just a wish to refuse the amendment. Probably no one can touch young Dinkic's feud. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 5, something's going on, some colleagues have talked about it a little bit. Look out, there are seven regions, Vojvodina, the Belgrade region, the Western region, the Eastern region, the Central region, the South region and the KIM region, because someone doesn't notice that you've leveled autonomous provinces with statistical regions. Maybe the autonomists won't like that. I would even like it to be, in some ways, so, but I'm afraid that you've leveled statistical regions with autonomous provinces and that this is just the first step towards the full division of the Republic of Serbia. Who guarantees that in a year or two, you will not write constitutional amendments or suggest a new constitution to the people, who is troubled and who is easily deceived? That's why I think this law is completely excessive right now, and I suggest once again to the government to pull it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22354	The time available for the Progress Group is four minutes and 30 seconds. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22355	I'm being warned by my colleagues that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, because they prejudge what you're about to say, but let's try. So, I think you have violated the general provisions of Article 27, because I have not found, despite the careful reading of the Rules of Procedure, any provision authorising you to conduct a dialogue with him during the presentation of the People's Parliament, whatever he has said to you. To respond to the MP, you can use the right to reply and report for the word, as the Rules of Procedure provides, by asking one of the vice-presidents present to replace you for that time, because it is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22356	There is no violation of Article 27, as you assumed your fellow Members would rightly tell you. My intervention is the application of Article 27, because MP Veroljub Arsic expressed his suspicion that I was monitoring the session with attention and that I would allow him to speak, as well as the time available to him for the amendment and time of the parliamentary group, probably not following every time, I told every speaker when he was two minutes, and when there is still time available to him as a member, president, or authorised representative of the parliamentary group. It is my duty, taking care of the order, to assure the MP that he does not have to be concerned, I have both concentration and equal attitude towards each of the MPs. The National Assembly will, on a proposal, or request by Parliamentarian Milos Aligrudic on the injury made, decide on that in the day of the vote. On top of article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a member who defines what development documents we should be dealing with. The points of view are 2 and 3. Analyzing them, man can, in fact, understand the complete indolence of this government and this ministry, the legislator of this law, and the lack of understanding of the importance of spatial, planning and developmental documentation. Here you're saying that regional development documents are one of the starting points for drawing up spatial planning documents and documents to implement spatial plans. Then you say that regional development documents are being developed in accordance with the existing spatial planning documents. Mrs. Kalanovic, I said three times today and, behold, for the fourth time, 80% of municipalities do not have valid planning documentation. Do you know what that means? She's over 20 years old. Now, on the basis of these stale planning documents, you're going to be making developmental documentation in the spirit of European standards, and then these development documents will be the basis for drawing up planning documents and their implementation programmes! It doesn't look like anything, as important and important as this is. It's a good thing, perhaps, a thing defined through law, but your indolence over the past nine years and the lack of attention to plan documentation has come up with good intentions. Tell me, I asked you and this happy society next to you, what are the deadlines for drawing up development papers? That's what I'm interested in. I think you should answer that, because many of them will depend on the spirit of equal regional development in Serbia. What are the deadlines for drawing up development documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22358	On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when you look at Article 14. The bill's proposal, and when you pay attention to the documentation that needs to be prepared to start this regional development in Serbia, you get the impression that, more or less, all of this documentation could be prepared by municipalities and cities. You didn't need those agencies, you didn't need your advice, you didn't need your associations. More or less, all the documentation concerning the development of municipalities and cities could have prepared the local self-government units themselves. I just want to remind you that under the current law on local self-government, municipalities and cities, development programs. It was really unnecessary for this additional administration and the creation of some new bureaucratic apparatus at the level of the region and at the level of all Serbia; all these jobs could be done by municipalities and cities, through their staff in municipalities, or municipal and city administrations. Instead of economic development, you offered Serbian citizens some new bureaucracy, some new civil apparatus. In doing so, you have failed to define by this law the status of members of these agencies and these councils of yours. Will it be civil servants, will it be local self-government officials, how their salaries will be financed, will they be paid at all, and I suppose they will? So there's a whole series of unknowns. You're going on an adventure, you don't even know where this adventure can lead you, instead of going from what is real in Serbia, what exists and what really needs to be developed, and these are municipalities and cities, as well as local self-government units. (President: Two minutes. () Everything else is completely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22360	On Article 14, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22361	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we come to the fourth chapter of the law, it refers to the types of development documents. In Article 14, Article 1 applies, first of all, to the types of regional development documents. Here you can list: National Regional Development Plan, Regional Development Strategy, Regional Funding Programmes, etc. What you have forgotten, and it seems to me that and how important it is, that is our amendment, is a policy of regional development. We thought it was the first comprehensive document, which should stand first, and then all of these next points that you listed, especially point 1), especially point 2) and so on. What we have predicted by our amendment is that this policy of regional development, which I say again, is a comprehensive document, should be adopted by the National Assembly. When I mentioned the National Assembly, I realized why you didn't want to develop your law this way – because it doesn't suit you to say anything publicly in the National Assembly. This nighttime broadcast, which will be watched tonight, tonight, in fact, from three till, say, nine in the morning, will certainly not contribute to the public and democracy of the work of the National Assembly, but it will mean something to you, because this ticky topic will be delayed for a better time, especially when this moment is recorded on television by a dramaticly important game, basketball match, which and how it means for the citizens of this country. I think the amendment that we have submitted is fully in line with something called democracy, and if you understand what it is, you will accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22362	On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22363	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Again, we are coming to the promotion of Serbia's regionalisation. The smart ministry and the government are calling for Article 97 point 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the basis for the adoption of this law, and it speaks of the transport and transfer of dangerous substances, explosives and so on. So, one nonsense, one inappropriate move from the Serbian government. To go back to Article 5, which provides for certain regions, including the Vojvodina region and other regions, which is very much a reminder of the concept of the Federal Union of European ethnic groups, as I said, which held a meeting in Subotica in 2008. It works on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I've already stated that their founders are known Nazis, anti-Semites and others. In this document published together by French and German scientists, among other things, General Pierre Marie Gallo, there is one picture showing Helmut Cole, known for bringing this coalition to power, without Socialists. In addition, Peter Iver Johansen, a member of the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups, who was listed in an anti-Semitic magazine in 1973 as an associate, as well as Hans Klein, who spoke to the SS armed forces that the honorable combat troops were still in 1989. The projects of such organisations are being realised, G17 is being realised in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I'm telling you that these are the concrete documents that are in our possession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22364	The word was sought by Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22365	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't expect to be commended here for the proposal, as a pronoun, but I expect you to interpret the Constitution in the right way, given that the defamation of such a document is not appropriate to this home. I'll read what the promoter called for. Article 94, entitled 'Equality of Development', says: 'The Republic of Serbia takes care of balanced regional development, in accordance with the law'. Article 97 of point 9 states:'sustainable development; system of environmental protection and improvement; protection and promotion of the plant and animal world; production, transport and transport of weapons, toxic, flammable, explosive, radioactive and other hazardous substances'. We have called for sustainable development and point 12 says – the development of the Republic of Serbia, policy and measures to promote the smooth development of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, including the development of underdeveloped areas; organisation and use of space; scientific and technological development. It is true that the promoter precisely referred to the provisions of the Constitution, regardless of what you want to make a mockery.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22366	National MP Boris Aleksic. Would you like a replica of Minister Verice Kalanovic's explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22367	Thank you. Just for a little while. In an explanation, 'I. The constitutional basis, you say – the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97. 9 and 12. The Constitution. Article 97 of points 9 and 12 discusses sustainable development. I don't know if you have data on what sustainable development is. It's a very serious discipline. It seems to me that Mr Cvianovic is doing this as a adviser to the President of the Republic, among other things, includes philosophy. Yeah, an actor that I'm very fond of, but this is too serious an area. Several scientific disciplines include, among other things, philosophy, as I said, believe it or not, and you can check it in scientific literature. Indeed, here you are talking about production, transport, transport of weapons, toxic, flammable, explosive, radioactive and other dangerous substances. It's a constitutional basis for you to pass this law. It doesn't make any sense. You could have called point 12. What did you need point 9 for? This is not sustainable development, sustainable development is a complex matter to be processed by such a law and such scarce material as you have offered. You can talk, but it's facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22368	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go. Just press the key once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22369	Mr. Alexic, I really don't want to be awkward, but when you read, read in order, don't skip. As explained in point 1, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 94. The RS Constitution, Official Messenger No 98/06, which found that the Republic of Serbia is concerned with a balanced and sustainable regional development, in accordance with the law, as well as with Article 97(1) point. 9 and 12. The constitution, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the development of the Republic of Serbia, policy and measures to promote the smooth development of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, including the development of underdeveloped areas. Please, when you present the constitutional basis to the public, read exactly what it says.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22370	National MP Boris Aleksic, right on line. Here you go. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. It seems to me that both the MP and the minister can understand each other quite nicely without your help.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22371	Just for a little while. The material you delivered to us is the following: ''The explanation, I. constitutional basis. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97. 9 and 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia according to which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the development of the Republic of Serbia", you do not mention explosives, 'politicals and measures to promote the uniform development of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, including the development of underdeveloped areas', yet there are no explosives and dangerous substances, 'as well as the provisions of Article 94', now mentioned in Article 94, 'which found that the Republic of Serbia takes care of balanced and sustainable regional development, in accordance with the law'. You stated this, although sustainable development is mentioned in article 97 and 94 is something else entirely. That's the text we got. I'm sorry, but we have this. As far as the argument goes, this remains the same, I guess.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22372	On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22373	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 14(2). As with the other amendments I have tabled to this bill, this amendment shows that this bill is inadequate, more precisely, inappropriate at this point, in every sense. And this Article 14 mentions, that's my personal opinion, the real reason for this law. This is supposed to be EU development aid. Why am I using that expression? If the context of economic relations between the EU and the Republic of Serbia is seen, it is concluded that the money is heading towards Brussels, not Belgrade, i.e. towards the Republic of Serbia, as you claim, means, in the opposite direction. I'm sure you know that help from the so-called. The EU pre-accession fund, the IPA Fund for Serbia, amounts to less than 200m euros annually. On the other hand, according to Mrs Dragutinovic of your government since 6.12.2009, Serbia will lose around 267m euros solely because of the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement. Also included are customs and VAT, not only customs, as counterpart Delevic said the other day. When we add all this data, the EU takes away 260m euros from Serbia annually through the IPA Fund, and this fund is one of the basic reasons for the adoption of this law, which brings potentially great risks to the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. It's just amazing and can only be explained by the use of perscription dogmatical ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22374	On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22375	Item 6 of Article 14. The bill should be deleted because it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, in the possible application of this law, we do not trust the government of Boris Tadic, and neither of you, Mrs Kalanovic, personally, as the minister in charge of spending people's money, even though you said an hour ago that you were always in executive power, so that something was suspicious to me. I went online to see your Si-You, there, however, says you've graduated from primary school, high school and college, and you've even mastered. In the meantime, you were an intern, so you were working on tire control at First Five, so when you were a master, you were transferred to some warehouse, then to executive power, you just came from the More Machine School from Triestenik, to the Authority of Administration, where you were teaching "machine materials" and, as it says, there was a working relationship there for you. I don't know if that's still true. It is not clear whether this working relationship is still at rest. But I didn't bring all this up because I was interested in it for you personally, but because of what you said, that you were always in executive power. I couldn't connect it, since you're in the executive office for the first time now, even though you've almost declared it, I watched it on one show, that you're the first minister from Triestenik. I don't know if you've heard of Milan Stojadinovic. He was from Footstep. It's also a village near Triestenik. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22376	The word has a minister, Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22377	I'm sorry, Mrs. Radeta, that you haven't exactly read my biography. But you have MPs from Triestenik you can ask around and I'm sorry you can't find any stains in my biography. Yeah, I finished high school as one of the best students, and college, and I mastered directly after college. I've never worked at a tire factory, in a warehouse, because I came as a master of technical science, with an average of 10, to Triestenik. I worked immediately as a development engineer, and very quickly as a development director at the Zaptics Factory. The whole Trieste knows that. I'm not ashamed of that. I also worked as a professor, as a master in high school, and I worked in the authorities of the administration. I'm sorry that you won't be able to find in my biography what you, moral measurers, measurers of truth, measurers of everything that exists on the public stage right now, because those things you want to find, in my biography, don't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22378	People's emissary of the Faith of Radeta, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22379	I don't know why you got upset and angry, Mrs. Kalanovic. I didn't say we were looking for anything bad in your biography, and I don't know why tire control is bad in someone's biography, but, Mrs. Kalanovic, you're saying that the whole Triestenik knows what you were doing. I know that the whole of Triestenik and the whole of Poland, it's your village, knows that you've paved every street in your village, except for one small juicer where the head of the local SRS board lives. It's really not nice, when you paved the whole of Poland, it took that little juicer. I've seen it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22380	National MP Aleksandra Jerkov tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 14a be added after article 14. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new title and a new member of 14a. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22381	The Honored Chairman, Minister Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is one of those that surrounds our concept, as we see even regional development and, in general, Serbia's development. The bottom line of our concept is that, primarily, regional development policy must be defined. Without it, there are no key strategic decisions, no national plan and, above all, no definition of statistical regions. What we want to do with our amendment is this. The fact is that even regional development is a constitutional principle and implies, as well as the Constitution itself, the need for consensus and broad debates, that we need to discuss this issue in the National Assembly. We believe that the National Assembly, during this government, has been neglected in many ways, in many ways, when it comes to making key political decisions important to this country. We have repeatedly pointed out this when it comes to policy decisions towards KIM, so now policies relating to preventing the economic crisis. We did not discuss these two big topics in the National Assembly. The third major topic is Serbia's development. We also believe that we should talk about this subject, how decisions should be made, about how Serbia should develop, in the National Assembly. That is why we have proposed that the first step towards defining regional development policy should be the National Assembly and the adoption of that policy in the National Assembly, that from this highest home, where citizens are from all over Serbia, we hear in which direction and how Serbia should develop.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22382	At the title above Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MPs, it is necessary to have the card inserted in to be registered for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this is a member who defines the National Plan, or what is defined by it, who prepares it, who brings it, and to what period it is defined. It's something long-term, for 10 years, there, approximately, you recognize, through that deadline, the importance of some of the documents that I was just talking about. We, of course, have no objection to any area you want to deal with, and in the long and short term, strategically define the programme as to how and what to do. But again, this law is unacceptable to us for some other reasons. When it comes to these things, what I would resent for you on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, is that in Articles 15 and 16 you somehow bypassed the Ministry of Spatial Planning. I think even when these strategies were development documents and everything about it, maybe you could give priority to that same ministry, or you had to give it away, because they were, first of all, in charge and in charge of these things. I think that the basis of everything should be spatial plans, because these are acts dealing with our economic and social and cultural and demographic and tourism and whatever kind of development you want in the next 20 and 30 years, if nothing else, here, I end up right now, Serbia really has a professional and serious frame in this context that could give its maximum. I think you've used it very little in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22384	On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously this is one party bill and behind it completely, without a reserve, stands only one party of the ruling coalition, which is G17 plus. Two days ago, you could see Mr Milan Markovic, Nenada Canka and Mladjan Dinkic together promoting this bill, however, you could see by then that there seemed to be three proposals for the regional development law. Milan Markovic said the bill should be a trigger for constitutional changes in Serbia, which should lead to regions being educated not only as statistical units, but also as some form of autonomy, i.e. self-government in certain parts of Serbia. Nenad Canak said that the law for his party is absolutely acceptable and that he only expects that after this law he will be adopted in the Serbian Parliament and the Statute of Vojvodina, while Mladjan Dinkic claimed that these regions remain only statistical units and that they cannot possibly grow into something that can have legal subjectivity. You have just read the name of a national MP from the ruling coalition belonging to LSV. So, two days ago, they claimed that the law was great, that they absolutely have no objections, that they would support it, but when the time came to submit amendments, people submitted amendments to the bill, and we hear now in public, and in the media you can read that, they have a very harsh grudge on this bill. The logical question now arises – is this a proposal from the Serbian government and, in general, the ruling coalition, or is this just a proposal from the G17 Plus Party? From the discussion of the MPs, I realized that only MPs from G17 plus completely, without any reserves, without any dilemmas, support the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22386	Time. On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22387	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the DSS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 15(2) amending your proposal for the National Plan to be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. We say – The National Plan is being prepared by the National Regional Development Agency, based on regional development policy. In Section 3, you said that the National Plan is being adopted for a period of ten years. We are changing that attitude and it should read – the National Plan brings the Government, on the proposal of the National Council for Regional Development. Now I'm going to try to explain to you what a perfectly logical way of determining subordination looks like. So a completely professional and technical issue such as the national plan should define exchanges of priorities and ways to achieve these priorities. The preparation of the plan should be carried out by the National Agency, based on the Agency's preparatory document based on regional development policy. Then, the government adopts a National Plan, formally proposed by the National Council. This is a complete subordination, putting on the feet of something you've done somewhere in the air as it should fly. I see from several examples here, from several members, that you have a problem with figuring out who's in charge and who's doing what. It might be interesting if you could change this whole structure and give it your personal names, since the law is obviously prepared for a party structure, which needs to be repainted. Perhaps you, as a staff member of that party, have ready names to be painted here; then you would see who is in charge and who should be in control. So what my colleagues have already noticed, and should be mentioned, it is clear why the G17 has proposed this law, but it is increasingly clear why the DS has accepted that such a law is found in the Assembly. It's quite clear that we're going to keep the Duke's statutes quiet for a while, delay it until this story is over with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22388	On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22389	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. As for this amendment, the government from member to member, in connection with the rejection of our amendments, reiterates that one of the basic principles provided for by this law is the principle of integrity of the Republic of Serbia. We've already pointed out why we doubt that. We have listed the information relating to Article 5. We have also indicated that the "top" organisation dealing with regional and regional issues within the EU, the rights of ethnic groups, the Federal Union of European ethnic groups, has a similar project when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. They, as I said, held a meeting in Subotic on the matter. I would like to read something one of their officials, Stefan Treps, said on 4 December 1996: "In line with this, the organisation plans to co-operate with NGOs to form special commissions, etc. For example, in several areas in Serbia where minorities live, especially acute tensions between ethnic groups, which can potentially lead to the challenge of ethnic or even inter-state war in Kosovo, with an Albanian minority, but also in Sandzak, where Muslims speaking Serbian, Vojvodina, with its Hungarian minority, Serbian authorities reluctantly approve international organisations, foreign diplomats or foreign journalists of the opening of permanent offices, etc." As shown in this document of the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups, they were still on 4 December 1996, according to their official Stefan Treps, predicting ethnic conflicts not only in KIM, but also in Vojvodina, as well as in the Rasko area. They say here, Sandzak. Once again, I will repeat to you, therefore, a similar concept of regionalisation that you listed in Article 5, they also have in their projects. I've identified who their founders are. I'm continuing on the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22390	On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 16 defines a regional strategy. Again, some of the members in this part of the law are not fundamentally challenged. For us, this law is unacceptable because it introduces some new forms of territorial organisation in Serbia, but when it comes to these matters, the national plan, the regional strategy, funding programmes etc., there we can really criticise those principles you are calling for in the explanation, where you say that, by respecting the principles of subsidiarity and partnership, synchronisation, define a regional strategy and according to this Ministry of Preparation, etc. We were just saying, when we were with a member of this third law, what do we really think about all of it, how long you've been in this period since you've affirmed all of those categories that you're now defining and representing as principles. We think you're really going to have trouble applying this law, if, God forbid, you adopt it, and I think it's going to be a stumbling block for you. I repeat, we don't think you've defined much, if you'd defined a lot of things that were left unsettled, but in one correct, or any other debate, everything would be corrected. The biggest problem is that you are not prepared to give up the concept of regionalization which, from the political point of view of the SRS, is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22392	On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22393	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. We see in this explanation the refusal of amendments that the Government of the Republic of Serbia prescribes from previous arguments, which is why it rejects the amendments and reiterates again that one of the basic principles of this law is the integrity of the Republic of Serbia. We have other documents published by French and German experts related to the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups. So George Bruner, in his own time, from the Centre for European Minorities and the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups, said in one report: ''b', the revision of borders: 1) the right of the people to self-determination, 2) criteria and measurement'. It says - state sovereignty and the right to self-determination, in principle, have the same position. He also cited a number of things related to "closed territories" in Kosovo inhabited by Albanians, then certain territories in Albania, Serbia-Montenegro, etc. In one place, he mentions the Duke. As places where it is possible for his organisation to act on the rights of national minorities, above all, the right of the people to self-determination, and even the separation of parts of the sovereign territory, he says, should in particular pay attention to northern Vojvodina, especially the municipalities of Kanjiž, Palić, Čoka, Senta, Ada, Mol, Becej etc. This is the official of the Federal Union of European Ethnic Groups George Bruner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22394	On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22395	The DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 6(4), which you have written in the original text of the proposal as – the Ministry of Regional Strategy for preparation in co-operation with the relevant regional development agency, district development associations and units of local self-government, which form the region for which the regional strategy is being adopted. The DSS is against putting together such a complicated structure, especially against increasing the structure. That is why we felt that the amendment that we have submitted should say that the Ministry is preparing a proposal for a regional strategy in co-operation with the National Agency for Regional Development, the units of local self-government that form the region for which the regional strategy is being adopted. You've created a National Agency, you've given it some totally secondary jurisdiction, and you have the possibility of this national agency making really big plans. On the other hand, what you've done, regional and district development agencies, which we're erasing, because we think they're superfluous, is that this structure that you've built without them can work quite well and achieve the goal of this law. It is precisely the creation of these regional and regional development agencies that demonstrates the real intention of the legislator, in this case, the G 17 Plus party, because it is, in fact, the reserve position where the high G 17 Plus personnel will be employed, and given that there are personnel on both regional and local units, then these regional development agencies are also being created, then local associations are being created; these people should be placed, they should be paid by citizens of Serbia. Of course, it's complicated in another way to fund your party. It is very simple to go to the expense of Serbian citizens. On the other hand, another interesting thing, you increase the administration... (President: Two minutes. ) The EU tells you that it is your minus, and you are still doing it; that means you are completely on your way to lose what you told Serbian citizens in the campaign, that you will approach Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22396	On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22397	The amendment shall be submitted to Article 16(5). It's a bill of law. This is about the National Council for Regional Development. This amendment may be linked to Article 25, where the national IPA Fund coordinator is re-scheduled. Once again, this famous IPA fund appears, perhaps the main reason for this bill. In the previous amendment, we saw that due to the implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement, 260m euros are lost and that the IPA Fund brings us less than 200m euros annually. An even more unfavourable comparison for the government and the minister is when compared to the external trade deficit of the Republic of Serbia for 2008 of about 8 billion euros. In this context, according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, over 50% of foreign trade is taking place between the EU and the Republic of Serbia, it is our main foreign trade partner. When we bring this together, we get huge sums of money going to Brussels, which are measured by billions of euros; at the same time, only over 1% of us get help from the IPA fund. It's a reality, but it's not a virtual one offered by the Proposer, through proscript ideology, a phrase about some synergy, which you mention in an explanation for the rejection of this amendment. That is why this law is completely inadequate, unnecessary and only leads to an increase in political tensions in the country. I don't believe that was your goal, but obviously you don't see it, nor do you see its negative effects, because you're solely handling the pro-brisl ideology, not the economic data and economic interests of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22398	At the title above Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22399	We believe that this and several other next members have brutally trampled the Constitution. When I say that, I mean, first of all, to treat Kim as an autonomous province through this law. If you have already defined KIM as a region, as well as Vojvodina, what are you predicting here: "If the programme of financing the development of the region is realised in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the AP Vojvodina's opinion on the programme is given through the authorities"? Then you say – if the funding programme for the development of the region is realised in the territory of the capital, the opinion on the programme is given by the city of Belgrade, through the authorities. Why did you leave Kosovo and Metohija out here? We really feel that the law is contrary to the Constitution and that it will produce some things that will require you to change the Constitution. If this same constitution obliges us to have two autonomous provinces and if you define both provinces as regions, why do you tend to throw KIMs out of some of the provisions of this law? We get to a member very quickly where you define regional development entities and you don't talk about kim here. For what? I asked you a question in principle debate and in particular, and tonight I ask you – is the state and government of the Republic of Serbia whose part you are, Mrs Kalanovic, your party, leaving Kosovo's regional development programmes in perspective to define someone else? Aren't we going to include KIM through the regional development programmes of the Republic of Serbia? Will KIM really be a region with which you will establish co-operation in perspective, just as European institutions are asking you to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22400	On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the Serbian government is pushing KIM out of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia with this bill. I really don't know why you're doing this. Serbia's constitution is clear -- two autonomous provinces are in Serbia's membership, apart from Vojvodina, that is, Kosovo and Metohija. I understand that the legal system of the Republic of Serbia cannot be applied to AP KiM at this time, but nothing minded that the AP KIM is properly treated in this bill, so when the conditions are met, then the provisions of this law will also apply to KIM. Why are you persistently and systematically, this is not the first draft of a law to do so, pushing the KIM itself out of Serbia? Just to remind you, your friends from Croatia, whom you used to spread the red carpet here a few weeks ago when you were waiting for them, acted differently while there was, say, the Republika Srpska Krajina. Croatian television at that time neatly, every night, in the second journal gave a weather forecast for Knin, Petrinja, Beli Manastir, although these cities were composed of Republika Srpska and Croatia in no way had control over these areas, but in this way, you may, in a sense, have wanted to show that these cities and these regions are the constituent parts of the Republic of Croatia. So, even on the weather. Take a look at the footage of Croatian television from that period, but literally, every day – what time will be in Zagreb, what time will be in Bjelovar, Split, and what time will be in Knin. This is how you completely bypass KIM. I don't know who gave you the right to do that. The Serbian Constitution does not say anything that Kosovo and Metohija are separate from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22402	On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22403	As my colleagues pointed out before me, this is the essence of this bill. The government's best attitude towards the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is seen here. So, in this article, on the funding programmes of the region's development, you mention the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, and you don't mention KIM anywhere. I don't know if you hired any lawyers to help you write this bill. It was very easy for you to do so, to state the Autonomous province, the southern Serbian province, Kosovo and Metohija, and yes, as you suggested that the province of Vojvodina give an opinion, suggest that the Ministry of KIM, or any other body, give an opinion. So you had to name both autonomous provinces here. This, practically, prejudges, finds what EU representatives are saying as a 'new reality'. I remind you that this is one expression they used when they sent EULEX, that the UN Secretary-General used those terms, and the 'new reality' is, in their opinion, that KIM is no longer part of Serbia. If they think so, we must not think of it, at least we can work in that direction, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the G17, which pushes this law, obviously believe that KIM is not part of the Republic of Serbia. So now you have to answer us right now, ma'am, why don't you name the Autonomous province of Kim here? To make things even worse, you list regional development entities in article 19, so you list the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, and you do not mention the Autonomous province of KIM anywhere. That's inadmissible. Even the UN calls for KIM, under the conditions set out in Resolution 1244. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22404	On Article 17, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Slobodan Samardzic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22405	Of course, I agree with my colleagues from the SRS that the non-indulgence of the Autonomous province of KIM in this context is not a harsh oversight, but a terrible malice, and I think it is not that it is not correct, but it is scandalous. We have submitted the amendment from a completely different position. We felt there was no need to engage in this process of autonomous province, with an opinion delivered on regional funding programmes. Why? First, the autonomous province is one level of decentralisation of state authorities. It is in your law, in Article 5, consistent with the concept of the region, which we have said is inadmissible and cannot be done in such a way without any criteria. Then, a territorial organisation in Serbia, a territorial continent, is given the opportunity to give an opinion on the funding programme only because the funding programme is implemented on their territory. It's Serbia's territory, Mrs. Kalanovic. The Regional Development Programme is intended for the whole of Serbia's territory, and what do the forms of decentralisation have to do with it? Second, when you're already giving the right to the capital, i.e. The city of Belgrade gives an opinion on funding programmes in its territory, the city of Belgrade, the capital, whatever it is, it's a unit of local self-government. Why don't you give that right to the other units of local self-government? Why don't they give an opinion? Why wouldn't Novi Sad give an opinion? Why don't Nis give an opinion, or Kragujevac? I think it's extremely incorrect of you, that it's a very incorrect proposal. We suggested something else. You give that right to all units of local self-government, let us release the Autonomous province, because in that case we would have to ask the region, the central region for an opinion, but you don't know how, by what mechanism. So give it right to the units of local self-government, limit the possibility, by a certain deadline, to give an answer, so if they don't give an answer, let the opinion be deemed to have given a positive answer. You need to establish some kind of communication that's correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22406	On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22407	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 17(5). So, again, we come to the essence of this law, which seems to be avoided by the minister, which is the selective aid the EU gives Serbia, while at the same time seizing from Serbia to billions of euros. So this is purely economic data and it's not the fruit of our acuity, or of some ideology that's contrary to yours. In this context, we can compare the effectiveness of these measures with the conditions of the IMF. As you know, the IMF's conditions will be the most affected by poor cities and municipalities in Serbia, and to a much lesser extent by Belgrade, Novi Sad and other cities that are in a much better position. Of course, that will also happen with these IPA funds, which are the main reason for the adoption of this law. In this context, I ask the minister openly, is the IPA Fund so important that it should lead to the warming of political tension in the country, to the obvious threat of territorial integrity and political stability in the country? It's particularly unclear if we're considering today's statement by Mrs., or Miss Milka Forcan, one of the executives of Delta Company. As you know, she said today that Delta's revenue will be over three billion euros a year. In that sense, we do not understand why you do not further tax this company and the funds that this monopoly receives because of its position aimed at regional development, without adopting such a difficult and harmful law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-12-0.u22408	I thank MP Dejan Mirovic. This was the last amendment to the search in detail that was the subject of the debate in our afternoon and evening session, so we're finishing work for today. The MPs now want to work more. National MP Dragan Stevanovic says he insists we do more. It's a good atmosphere, but we won't go to the next day date. That's what I said when you asked me earlier this afternoon – by 11:45; a session, a date, we don't go to the next day. Thank you all for the pleasure of working this afternoon and tonight. My personal gratitude to both the services and the employees of the National Assembly and to all those who followed our work. The paper continues with discussion in detail on the proposal for a law on regional development, on Monday, June 15th, at 10pm, with an amendment to the title above article 18, which was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Thank you all and have a nice weekend.
