ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14820	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just a few, this occasion, technical details. You've got...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14821	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow us to listen to Mr. Shami. Please allow us to hear Mr. Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14822	You've received a report from the Education Committee regarding these points. He's quite exhausted and I believe you could get a clear picture of what and how the Educational Committee was doing. I can tell you that, from the moment we were established, eight sessions of this committee have been devoted to this matter. We started a procedure related to...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14823	Please do not disturb Mr. Shami as he speaks. I'm really asking and warning. I'll be forced to apply sanctions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14824	We've opened the procedure on July 14th, and we've addressed all the authorised promoters. That procedure took a long time. In the first mah, authorised applicants did not send enough candidates, i.e. the Law decidedly states that there must be more candidates in each category than is elected. In the end, the whole job ended somewhere in early February. I'm also taking the opportunity to thank the secretary of the Committee and the officers who helped with this job. It was a very big job. You've got the biographies of all the candidates. These biographies were narrowed down, so they were equal lengths and made in the same form, because we were getting biographies from the candidates that ranged from several rows to ten pages. The original biographies, whoever wants, can look in the service. We were also free to propose to the Assembly, to suggest to the Assembly some principles in relation to the choice of candidates. Of course, I don't particularly need to point out that all candidates are equal. They are classified by categories in alphabetical order, so that's number one and the one whose place belongs in alphabetical order. We also suggested some principles, of course, that in no way obliges the Assembly, and on the other hand, you must know that all candidates meet the legal requirements that they can be, therefore, no conflict of interest. On the other hand, we believe that otherwise and cannot, when it comes to candidates, it must be, without a doubt, individual. So much, with that report you got, and the political aspects of this issue I'll talk about when the discussion opens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14825	Thank you, Mr. Shami. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Korac, here you go, representative of the LDP Group of MPs, then Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14826	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, we today choose a part of the members of the National Educational Council to which the term of office has expired under the applicable law. You heard the president of the Education Committee, who said we had implemented, I speak as a member of the Committee on Education, by law-proposed procedure, that all authorised applicants propose candidates and you have it before you. I think it would be very bad if today in the Assembly we didn't say a few words about this institution and how it has worked in the past. I must warn you that when the idea of forming a National Educational Council was adopted, when it was legally regulated, we received one body that has enormous importance for the development of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to point out to you that the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, Article 12, states that the National Education Council does the following two things: 1) sets out the development and improvement of the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education and 2) monitors and analyses the state of education at all levels of its competence, compliance with European standards. As someone who has worked for more than 30 years in education, I have to say that there are no more important things when we talk about education in Serbia than there are these two. The Council was formed on 23 May 2005. According to the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, which I have stated, he is obliged to regularly deliver two documents to the Assembly – a report on his work, at least once a year, and an opinion on the situation in the field of education and education and the development of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, at least once a year. In short, I'll tell you in fact how the Educational Council worked. It was delivered to the Assembly of Reports for 2006 and the work programme for 2007. Report 2008 was delivered. Reports have not been delivered for 2007 and 2005, and only at the request of our committee, the Assembly delivered an opinion on the national educational status in education. You have a situation that the National Educational Council did not deliver to the Assembly at all what it was obliged to do, but only when the Educational Committee did so. To make things worse, they delivered a report that wasn't even adopted at the National Educational Council. My opinion and the opinion of our parliamentary group is that this is devastating and you will see that these proposals, from points 18 to 21, are precisely why they require that the president of the National Education Council be changed, as well as that one member to whom the mandate has not expired, but who was in a rough conflict of interest, because he was also an assistant minister of education and a member of the National Education Council, which is not allowed. The essence of what I think we all need to worry about is the text that was delivered to us in December. Listen carefully to what the basic institution in Serbia needs to deal with the education strategy: "The National Educational Council believes it is necessary to move forward as soon as possible to develop a national education and education strategy. ". Those who need to do this tell us that what needs to be done as soon as possible. It's the legal obligation of the National Educational Council. Four years since the constitution of the National Education Council, Serbia has not yet had a unique, clearly established strategy for the development of national education. I claim that there is no country in the environment, that I am not going further to Europe, which does not have such a strategy. What kind of country doesn't have a primary and secondary education strategy? Let me just add what the report says. You remind me of elementary school students, they're always in first class like this, a little talk about what they were doing yesterday, where they were. I think this is very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14827	Gentlemen, I really ask you to allow Mr. Korać to be heard, by the way, before the content of his statement is very useful for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14828	The report says this - making such a document is a difficult and responsible job, which exceeds the strength and power of the National Educational Council. You chose the National Educational Council that tells us two things – firstly, that it should be done, and secondly, tells us that it is a difficult and responsible job that exceeds the strength and power of the National Educational Council. Gentlemen, I don't think a document like this has ever been found before the Serbian Parliament, in which those chosen by this assembly declare it exceeds their powers. I was quoting what they said. I mean, when we choose a part of the new National Educational Council and, apparently, the new president, we will have to take seriously their legal obligation to start making that strategy this year and to keep us informed on a regular basis, first of all, of the Education Committee, but also of all the MPs, of how the work is progressing. I appeal to those who will be chosen to, firstly, start doing it, which is their legal obligation, and secondly, to get to know us, at least at some point, what it looks like. I'll give you just one example, allow me so much time, I can't talk about everything that's been given in this report. What's the point, is that when it comes to education problems, some are urgent and they have to be solved. I will name only one – the problem of preschool education. For example, more and more private kindergartens are opening up with us, and they have, above all, become aid to the state because the state has introduced pre-school education as an obligation. These kindergartens have come to help and working with these children is taking place in primary schools. What's that education look like? Where is the number of those kindergartens concentrated? What are the conditions in them? Do local communities help? Don't they help? Data exist in the Ministry of Education and Statistics. All this stuff I'm telling you is there, but we don't have any of that in the national strategy processed. Just to deal with the problem of kindergartens, preschools, which, legally, which is quite justified, have to prepare children for first class, which is difficult for many children and a completely new situation in children's lives, regardless of what it has to be prepared for, is enough. Once again, I hope that this new old educational council, some old members, will understand their obligations differently, first of all, the legal obligation to provide us regularly, pay attention to the formulation in the Law – at least once a year, the report on its work and that it will finally do that strategy that Serbia does not have. I would dare, in the last sentence, to say, I think that part of the problem we have, but in a very broad sense, which is not political, but are related to social and economic development, stem from Serbia's not setting out a clear strategy for the development of pre-school, primary and secondary education. We have one wandering, for which there is no responsibility to be borne by people who have been members of the National Educational Council so far. I do not say, "All men, but those who guided him above all else." It is amazing to me that we receive letters from people who were members, who object that we now want to replace them, and they themselves sent a letter to the congregation saying they were unable to make that strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14829	I thank Mr. Korac. The word is Pastor Balint.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14830	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 11(1). The law on the foundation of the education and education system of the Republic of Serbia, the Educational Council has 42 members, including the president, elected by the National Assembly, in time of six years. The same article, in paragraph 3, says that the president and members of the Council are elected, and then lists the authorised representatives of certain persons, candidates for the National Educational Council. The 9th indent reads – The National Educational Council also has a member from the National Minority Order, from a list of candidates who share the advice of national minorities. In all, there are 12 categories, 12 mandated promoters, and among them are national councils of national minorities. National councils of national minorities have the right to jointly propose a candidate for a member of the National Educational Council. This provision of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, unfortunately, was not respected even a few years ago, when the first meeting of the National Educational Council was elected, and even now the national councils of the national minorities were not in a position to propose their candidate for the National Educational Council. This is bad because education and education in the languages of national minorities, i.e. for members of national minorities, is a specific, specific area, and it is very important that representatives of national minorities are included in the work of this body, the National Educational Council, which has really very important competences in planning the education strategy of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important to be members of the ranks of experts who know this very specific area of education in minority languages. That is why it is very bad that, despite the fact that the national councils of national minorities jointly proposed a candidate a few years ago, when the first meeting of this council was chosen, that candidate was not passed; it was not reportedly possible, for formal reasons, for this candidate to be elected to this significant function. This option is not given now, but, if the MPs think, I am addressing all MPs, from all parliamentary parties, that it is necessary that this significant, specific area of education in the languages of national minorities be covered, then there is a solution. Namely, three members are elected from the ranks of representatives of the communities of secondary schools. There are a total of 12 candidates among those candidates, under a regular number of five, Mrs. Edita Sos, on a proposal from the Association of Medical Schools of Serbia. Ms. Shoš is, in addition to being the Director of the Medical High School in Subotica, and a member of the Executive Board of the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority is responsible for the area of primary and secondary education. She has been doing this job since December 2002, knows the problem of education in practice, above all, in Hungarian, but also in all minority languages. That is why I am addressing fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support Mrs Edita Shos when there is a vote on this agenda and to tackle this problem jointly, the problem that national councils of national minorities were unable to propose a common candidate. Edita Soš, in addition to working for decades as a professor in secondary schools and being a director for several years, of the Medical School in Subotica, is also a very important function, that is, a member of the Executive Board for Fundamental and Secondary Education of the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, is not a party person, is not a member of any party. Since it has all the professional and personal qualities to be a member of the National Educational Council, I suggest you support the election day for Mrs Edith Shosh as a member of the National Educational Council. As for the problem that national councils of national minorities were unable to propose a joint candidate for a member of the National Education Council, I hope that this problem will be resolved by the election of the next National Educational Council. Among other things, it is very important for the National Assembly to pass a law on national minority councils as soon as possible, a law which, among other things, will regulate the specific competences of national councils of national minorities and in the field of education. We expect that this law on national councils will also contain a provision under which national councils of national minorities will be empowered to elect a member of the National Educational Council. I would once again invite all MPs, regardless of party membership, to vote for Mrs. Edith Shosh in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14831	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic, the SRS. Then, Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14832	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the decision to dismiss members of the National Education Council, it is important to highlight the following facts. According to the Law on the founding of a system of education and education adopted in 2003, more specifically, according to the second part of this law, which regulates development, security and improvement of the quality of education and education, the existence of a council to form Serbia's government in the field of education is envisaged. Also, in Article 10 of this 2003 law, more advice is defined as being formed, and one of them is the Educational Council. Then, in Article 11. The 2003 Law defines the composition of the Educational Council and, in Article 12, the competence of this Council. It is also foreseen that the right of the Minister of Education Affairs is to propose to him by this council the general basics of the school programme, the educational programme, the diaspora programme, the standards of knowledge, space and the like. In total, the Council had the right to propose about 16 types of proposal following the 2003 Law resolution. The Council also has the right to give its opinion to the Government and other bodies and organisations in this area, for example, on the coherence of the education system with European comparative education systems. From this phrase, it is clear that he is probably referring to the Bologna Declaration. Also, according to the 2003 law, the Council also gives its opinion on the situation in the field of education and education, which is particularly important, on the direction of development at all levels of education, as well as on criteria for the evaluation of the work of institutions and for the approval of textbooks, as well as on the criteria for accreditation of training programmes. Also, under the third of this 2003 law, the Council is in charge of other affairs. So these were the basic legal provisions on which the work of the Council was based and they were established in 2003. Later, in the coming years, there have been several changes in this area compared to the 2003 Law. The most important ones for this topic we are considering today are the 2004 changes. As is known, in 2004, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System was adopted, and that Law, in Article 2, is established, more specifically, by Article 10 of this Basic Law, which regulates the competence of the Council, but at the same time changes the name of the Council itself. According to the 2004 Amendments Act: "To determine the direction of development and promotion of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, the National Educational Council is educated." It is essentially this advice that we are discussing today and which was given its basic form in 2004, in amendments to the law of that year. The law states that the work of the Council is public. It is also very important for today's debate on the resolution of members of this council. Then, in Article 3. The Law on Amendments and Supplements, amending Article 11 of the Basic Law, sets out the number of members of the Council and points out that the President and members of the Council are elected on the following grounds: from the list of candidates submitted by the Serbian Academy of Sciences, from the list submitted by the University of Belgrade, but also from other regional universities whose founding state is, which is, by the way, a good solution, because we in the SRS consider, without the intention of underestimating any work, that universities behind which the state stands have a greater reputation and tradition than these newly founded private universities. Also, in the opinion of the 5th member, it is said that various respected societies, such as the Foreign Language Society of Serbia, the Association of Mathematicians of Serbia, the Union of Historians of Serbia, the Serbian Geographical Society, Serbian Chemical, Serbian Philosophy, etc., are mostly taxuously listed societies, are proposing members of the National Council for Education. In that sense, in pages 7 and 8. The law on changes states that candidates are also proposed by the Serbian Orthodox Church and traditional churches and religious communities. In paragraph 9, this right is also given to the advice of national minorities. In sections 11 and 12, this right is given to trade unions and employers' associations. So it's about almost all the social factors in the field of education and the school system. In Article 4. The Law on Amendments, in a slightly different way, regulates the powers of the Council in relation to Article 12 of the basic law, but nevertheless, these solutions are essentially based on the basic law of 2003. For example, under the draft law, Article 12 of the amended law provides that the National Council determines the development and improvement of the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education. It is also, according to the amendments to the Law, in the power of the Council, that it submits the general basics of the programme from pre-school to secondary education and, according to the position of the 6th same member of the Law on Amendments, the Council has the right to propose to the Minister of Teachers and Teachers. According to Article 8, the Council has the right to regulate standards for quality of education and training, as well as professional training, for the quality of textbooks and teaching tools, space and equipment. So, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is about the following fact, which stems from the previous analysis of the 2004 Bill and the basic law of 2003, and this fact is that the state, such legal solutions, has passed on very important and significant powers to the National Council for Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14833	Gentlemen, I really ask you to respect each other and allow us to listen to Mr Mirovic, who has been preparing very seriously for participation here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14834	If this fact is added to the above on the composition of the National Council, it is clear that it is a serious National Council, which is drawn up, or should be composed of people elected by very prominent institutions, universities and organisations, such as the Serbian Academy of Science, the Serbian Orthodox Church, state universities and other listed organisations and societies. It is clear, according to the basic law, but also according to the amendments to the Law, that the National Council is very important to our system of education. That is why these decisions we are considering today, and among them is the resolution of the President of the National Educational Council, who is otherwise elected as a candidate of the teaching colleges, as well as the resolution of a member of the National Educational Council chosen from the Belgrade University's order, clearly show that something is wrong with our education and that this system, established in the laws, is not working properly. It is a fact stemming from these decisions and it cannot be hidden by any phrases of the competent ministry or government. Whether this is the situation in our education that is blamed for the National Council, the bad laws, the economic situation, or just the ministry, is a particular issue. We are simply on the basis of these resolution decisions, because it is more than obvious that not only an ordinary member, but also the President of the National Council, but also in line with the analysis of the previous resolutions from the 2003 and 2004, we find that, apparently, it is a bad situation. In any case, the ministry, by the logic of things, has the greatest responsibility, because the funds intended for education are accumulated and parts, precisely through the Serbian government and the competent ministry. We also believe that, with regard to these decisions, we need to clarify, for the sake of the public, the decision on the resolution of our great intellectual, academic Michael Đuric, from the seat of the National Council, which, together with the resolution of the President of the National Council and another member, is addressed to the procedure. You know, when someone who is not addressed and doesn't know what these three decisions are about, or if they, worse still, are adopted in this House by automation, without detailed public explanation and discussion, and then published in the media and, as in most cases, a superficial performance, the impression will be made that academic Michael Djuric is resolved for similar reasons as in the case of the president of the National Council and members of the National Council who have been resolved, as already stated, because of the lack of an annual report and conflict of interest. If this happens, then there may be a misunderstanding and damage to the prominent academic Đurić. That's why we in the SRS think it is necessary to prevent facts about academics Đuric, above all, because, unlike the chairman of the National Council for Education and the second member of the council, academic Đuric resigned. Of course, we are not going in, nor do we want to discuss the private reasons that are mentioned in the explanation of the resignation of the academic Đurić, we only find that the resignation was passed several years before the end of the term, or just a few months after the formation of the so-called. The government of Brussels in our country. Also, with regard to these three resolutions, we point out that academician Mihailo Djuric has been elected to the National Council by the Serbian Philosophy Society. Given that he has such a brilliant career, he could freely be elected to the National Council and by the Serbian Academy of Sciences, whose member he is, or by the University of Belgrade, the Faculty of Law, because every student of the Faculty of Law, more specifically, all generations of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in the last 40 years know who Professor Djuric is. In this context, it is known that Mihailo Đurić doctored in 1954, the doctor became a professor in 1957, an extraordinary professor in 1964, and a regular professor in 1969. He also taught the general history of political theories, general sociology and methodology of social sciences, and his courage, patriotism and unwavering loyalty to Serbia showed in 1971, or on March 18, 1971, when he gave his famous speech on constitutional amendments. He then warned the public, so 20 years before the break-up of the SFRY, about the titoistic amendments and the adoption of a new constitution: "The proposed constitutional change from the basis of changes in the character of the state union of Yugoslav peoples, or, more specifically, the proposed change, in fact, rejects the very idea of such a state community. It should be clear that Yugoslavia is now almost only a geographical concept, since on its soil, more specifically, on its ruins, establishing several independent, independent, even mutually opposed national states." Then Professor Djuric concluded: "We must be aware of our historical responsibilities to the people we belong to. We need to know that for the Serbian people at this time, the most important issue is his identity and integrity. Even during World War I, the Serbian people have shown unequivocally that they care about living together with other Yugoslav peoples. He generously rejected the London Pact, which offered him the opportunity to create a great Serbia, just as after World War II he proudly crossed over the terrible crime. More than anything else, today it is necessary to sober the Serbian people from past delusions, in order to survive all today's trials. In order to be able to maintain due to the flood he was pushed into, the Serbian people must turn to themselves." Ladies and gentlemen, due to these words, today and more than current, Professor Mihajlo Đuric is away from the university, prosecuted and sentenced to two years of strict imprisonment. Also, these words also included physical attacks at the Faculty of Law against Professor Djuric. Many public figures and foreign figures protested the prosecution of Professor Djuric, including German philosopher Ernest Bloch. So when we talk about today's resolutions in the National Council for Education and when we consider that among these decisions there is also the resignation of academic Đurić, we need to realize that this is a loss for the National Educational Council. Such an intellectual, professor and academic, not only can he help with his knowledge the work of the National Educational Council, but he can, freely say, be a role model for all generations that are being educated today. Of course, we from the SRS know who Mihajlo Djuric is. We know that until the appearance of Dr Vojislav Seselj in 1984, he was the only real dissident and we know that, in his open letter of 20 October 1984, he defended Vojislav Seselj's right to freedom and a different position. We also know that Đuric was the only man who really died in the 1970s because of his beliefs, not that he was a quasi-sident, and only because he was the only man who stood up to Broz breaking Yugoslavia and adopting the 1974 Constitution, the Constitution, why not say so freely, which is the cause of many of our current troubles, from the Statute of Vojvodina, behind which the second generation of Broz's autonomists stands, to the habit of easy borrowing with the IMF, which led to bankruptcy in the early 1980s, and the rerun of that phenomenon is seen in this 2009 as well. When we talk about decisions on the resolution of members of the National Education Council, as well as guidelines that the National Council should give regarding national education, it should again point out that Michael Đurić's resignation is a loss, and because of the following facts. Djuric was not only known in our country. He's a member of the Academy of Science and Arts in Salzburg. He taught philosophy at universities in Vienna and Berlin. He published several books in German and lived for many years, exactly, in the West, but when the '90s came hard times for his people, he had no dilemmas. He chose the truth, not propaganda, and he proved it in the public controversy with German philosopher Folker Gerhart in 1993, when he clearly wrote that it was the European Community who irrevocably imposed, under the pressure of Germany, an extreme political interpretation of the crackdown of Yugoslavia, accusing Serbs, precisely those who wanted to preserve Yugoslavia. This attitude, ladies and gentlemen, can be another example for all members of the National Educational Council, an example of behavior that can be a role model for all generations who are being educated today. It can be an example for all our intellectuals and educators who face an imposed and false dilemma – whether Brussels has an alternative, and with the replacement of the thesis by which Europe and the European Union are the same concept. This is also an example for all who are considering whether Brussels or Serbia is closer to them. That is why this resignation of Mr. Djuric, which we are discussing today, is a loss for the National Educational Council, because without such a man of mind and experience, the work of this council will certainly be more difficult. That is why today we need to separate clearly and publicly his resignation from the other two resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14835	I thank Mr. Mirovic. The word is Mr. Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14836	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I believe I share the opinion of all MPs in this House if I say that, in my deep confidence, the National Educational Council should be a very, very important institution. In addition, the DSS expressed its position towards the National Educational Council in its own time, as it was just at the time of Mr Kostunica's first government and the National Educational Council. Of course, you saw the report submitted by the Education Committee, which, in my deep conviction, is very competently drawn up. The committees, of course, are composed of MPs, but fortunately, the composition of this committee is such that it allows very serious work, because it is people who, some of them, have spent a very long time in education. So, you have seen from the report itself, and you have heard from Mr. Korać that so far there have been problems in the work of the Council and that this assembly, not only this assembly, but all the future meetings of the Assembly, should be seriously concerned with the work of the National Educational Council and take advantage of that potential, because, realistically, in the National Educational Council, it was sitting and sitting, hopefully, more quality people, from all areas of education. You saw from the Education Committee report that the Education Committee made some decisions even unanimously, which is very good. Unfortunately, it doesn't say in the report, but one decision was made by the Committee, which I personally advocated. I stood up, because the DSS thinks, and I believe that common sense requires others to think that, that the composition of the National Educational Council should be independent of any policy, that it must gather the highest quality people, regardless of what I can't say, is visible from the biographies proposed by the candidates, that all candidates, from various spheres, are very high-quality. I suggested to the Committee, but unfortunately, the ruling majority did not want to accept it, that the Committee try to reach some consensus on the election of candidates. So, let's not outvote ourselves here in Parliament in the voting day, but, by measuring and estimating the quality of the proposed candidates, give some of our suggestions to this assembly. Of course, the board can't choose and shouldn't choose, but we could have done something like that. Unfortunately, the ruling majority rejected it and I'm afraid that in the voting day there will be a revote here and that only those candidates that the ruling majority will want will be elected. Right now, that's not good. It's not good for the current state of affairs, but it's not good for future practice either. For a little over two years, we will be followed by the re-election of half of the National Educational Council and then this or some other ruling majority will be re-elected in the same way. Dake, they will be elected by some political assessment, not by the real quality of the candidates themselves. We tried to make some suggestions as a committee. You just heard from a fellow pastor, who brought up a problem for members of the National Educational Council in the order of national minorities. For example, one of our proposals was to select at least one candidate and to be a member of a national minority. Such candidates, I think, in their biography, are more, although not specifically indicated. In any case, the DSS is very sorry, I am particularly sorry that we haven't tried, independently of our unsuspecting political differences, which naturally exist between the parties in this House, to give an objective assessment and an assessment that candidates could do most of the quality of this work. This is how we choose candidates for such an important institution as we vote here on much less significant places related to a state service, and the National Educational Council is something that we not only need to exist, but also that it works very well. What Mr. Korać said, anyway, and what Mr. Mirovic said, and everyone else is going to say, is that the situation in our education is really burdened with everything that's been going on in this country, I would say, since 1945, so we're saying, which has certainly not been favourable to the good state of education. That is why the National Educational World must be as high-quality as possible and that it does its job in a better way. It is not just the creation of a strategy, which is, of course, one of the most important jobs, there is still much, much work that this council, given the very high quality composition of those who are already in the Council and, hopefully, who will be voted on, should work. I am sorry that the opportunity has been missed, because it was an opportunity to make some rules of the game that would apply not only when it comes to the National Educational Council, and not only when it comes to the Committee on Education, but such a practice could be introduced, in some similar situations, and in the work of some other committees. You know, there are some jobs in this country that go into account for all the political parties that, with little political wisdom, could have been arranged. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that in the voting day, those who are the ruling majority want to choose solely by some criteria that I don't know who they'll be, and I'm afraid they won't just be professional. In this way, a large door to an institution, which must not be political at all, is being introduced into politics. That's not good. In the hope that perhaps some future assembly of the congregation, or some future congregation majority, might be wiser in this regard, in the name of the DSS, I end this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14837	Thank you. In accordance with Article 93, paragraph 1 and Article 96(2), Mr Batic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14838	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that the National Educational Council in the new composition will have a different archaic according to certain phenomena and phenomena that, in some ways, mark what is happening at the level of education. I'd like to mention one detail, one phenomenon, something that was the focus of public interest in the past tense, and that's the famous Index affair. I didn't hear that the National Educational Council reacted in any way when it came to this affair, which began with a lot of sensationalism, and it came down to judicial lardy. When I mention it, I don't want to ablimate, or amnest anyone who's got their hands dirty, especially in such a delicate area as getting university diplomas, but in the context of that Index affair, there's been an unusual precedent. It served the former prime minister and former ministerial affairs to deal with some political insinuators, political opponents, among other things. Why am I saying that? Because it's the most drastic example of this selective justice within something that's an Index affair, and it has to do with education and what I insist on here, because the National Educational Council had to raise its voice. Professor Predrag Stojanovic's case. He is the victim of a political reckoning, a man who is a worthy citizen of the Kings, who is the founder of the opposition in the King, who was a national MP in a few terms, found himself on a pillar of shame. His career was questioned because he published the critical text in a book, not to mention the name he has in his name – one career. The man's been in custody for six months at the prison hospital. They held a seriously ill man in custody for six months, and if he hadn't taken a single penny, he hadn't committed any crime - just because someone wanted to put him in, to get revenge, on the pillar of shame. In that same Index affair, we have selective justice. Some professors, who were favorites of some people in power, were passed by in that story. Some others have been drawn from the indictment of 80 or 90 people, for, as in another, they have committed one crime. If we were to use these architects from the Index affair, 90% of professors in all colleges, high and higher schools would have to be charged here. That is why I am warning state prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic, who knows what a judicial joke was made to take into consideration and to really be accused of those who have dirtyed their hands, who have taken the money, and not those who have nothing to do with it, but are hostages and victims of political retribution and political reckoning. I hope that the newly elected National Council will raise its voice and will not allow many professions and many careers to be questioned in such a shameful way, that many people, in some ways, are destroyed, as is the case by Professor Predrag Stojanovic. But he won't shut up. That's what I'm explaining. We'll open that Pandora's box, and the next topic will be, which I promise to the Attorney General Slobodan Radovanovic, the passing of the judicial exams, so many people will be at the top of the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14839	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Mr. Riza Halimi has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14840	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will just supplement Mr Pastor on the subject of minority representation within the new composition of the National Educational Council. It is likely, in this situation where we do not have a solution under the provisions of the Law on Education, that the national councils represent minorities in this very important institution, at present and practically this solution with the proposal given with Mrs Edith Shos, but in principle, I think that, in the future, this problem would have to be dealt with more systematically, in the spirit of what has been initiated by the relevant law in this area, from education, and in the spirit of the provisions of the new law on national councils and on the achievement of the collective rights of minorities in the field of education. Because neither the question of curricula, textbooks and a number of other sensitive issues in this area is currently still, in most cases, properly resolved and in practice is not an adequate procedure and what we had more than 20 years ago. I can freely say that when it comes to teaching in Albanian, the current level is lower than we had over 20 years ago. At that time, we had far better solutions in the teaching area in minority languages, specifically, in Albanian, in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, and 20 years ago, a lot was degraded; existing institutions in this area for many years do not have a clear idea of what is going on, for example, in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, in the teaching process, and when it comes to teaching programmes and specificities that are legally necessary to achieve national minorities through the teaching process, and also when it comes to textbooks and manuals. This is an abandoned area, where no one is currently engaged, a non-judicial ministry, and no Enlightenment Council. This advice so far may have had someone, a name and a last name, who should be a member of the minority, but who, by his detour, by his activities, did not prove at all that he knew the problem or that he wanted to do it. It is therefore inevitable and urgent to enable, within the framework of the Educational Council, to be a specific person who knows the area, to deal with it and to have absolute access and co-operation, in general, communication with the teaching staff or with representatives who perform this work in minority languages. I think it's an absolutely unsolved thing. Let this be the current solution, which can ease this situation, but I think the situation is so dramatic, so serious, with very urgent problems on the ground, that it also requires a more serious approach and the Ministry of Education. Since I am talking about this institution, which also has great competences in these areas, it should be resolved systematically as soon as possible, in the spirit of the laws that we have already adopted here, or those that we are preparing to adopt, or ultimately, based on international conventions that guarantee it clearly and loudly to national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14841	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word has the magistrate Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think today's debate on this agenda should have been attended by the Minister of Education, because the situation in our education system, to a large extent, exceeds the staff changes in the National Educational Council. I can agree with what the esteemed colleague Shami said, that the National Educational Council is a significant institution. This is true on paper, however, if we look at the results of the work of the National Educational Council in the last few years, the conclusion is, unfortunately, quite the opposite, as if the National Educational Council had never existed. Few people in Serbia know who the members of the National Education Council are, what its function is. The only one who appeared when it came to the education and education system is the various ministers of education, who, in their own way, performed various educational experiments. Practically, Serbia has been one big station since 2002, in which promoters of the 'new world order' in Serbia are testing new experiments on living people and, to make things worse, on children and young people. Mr. Shami expressed his suspicion that members of the National Education Council would be elected by party key. I can tell you, Mr. Shami, that you don't have to doubt it at all, that's almost certain. The ruling majority in this assembly will elect members of the National Educational Council of People who are at the will of Boris Tadic. They will be tasked with completely ruining Serbia's primary and secondary education, degrade it, and completely losing Serbia's school to those bright traditions that have been heritage for decades and centuries. Here, in 2008, there was a year in which we marked 200 years since Dosite High School education in Belgrade. It has been more than 150 years since the formation of the Great School, which precedes today's Belgrade University. What's the state of our education system? The situation is such that many elementary and secondary schools in Serbia have unloved scenes. Students go to teachers, individual teachers to students, there are injured, children from primary and secondary schools come out with a growing degree of knowledge. What's the state of our university? Since 2002, Serbian state universities have been on the path of total destruction. In 2002, a public debate was held at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad on the draft of the University Law at the time. I asked the deputy minister of education, who was then Gašo Knezevic, I think the lady's name was Serbia's Turajlic, what's wrong? That's right, more gentleman, and she introduced herself as a lady. So, what's wrong with our higher education, so it needs to be completely destroyed? Our engineers, mathematicians, our doctors, physicists, chemists, for years when they went abroad to the United States, Great Britain, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, etc., were the best experts. That means our schooling was good, and basic, and high, and high...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14843	Mr. Martinovic, I warn you, you said about Mrs. Turajlic something that really harms her reputation. Please take care of further formulations that could harm a person on any basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14844	I apologize, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, for interpreting my words as an insult to Mrs. Serbia's Turajlic. I just said I asked her a question – what's wrong with our university education, so it needs to be changed by 180 degrees? To that question, neither then nor until today, no one in Serbia has received an answer. Since 2003, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and I hope that this problem has been tangling you as a professor at the Medical Faculty, in the Republic of Serbia so-called. The Bologna Declaration promotes as some miracle unseen, which should be fully reformed by the University of Serbia. Our students and, in general, our public have been clapping for years with misinformation that "Bolonjska" has accepted the entire Western world, and that Serbia, if it wants to be included in this European academic space, must also reform its education, and especially high, according to the principles of the Bologna Declaration. You know, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, as I know, that, let's say, Great Britain and Belgium have not accepted any of the principles of this Bologna Declaration and that they will not hear about the Bologna Declaration. The French have adapted the Bologna Declaration to their needs and to their understanding of higher education. Only in the Republic of Serbia is the actual implementation of what comes to mind by various crazy minds in the West. Today, state colleges, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I hope you agree with me, are becoming increasingly difficult to withstand competition from various private universities. In the last year, from the Law School in Novi Sad, which I've been working on, 350 students have been out. Why? Because these children, this youth, are guided, above all, by the principle of their own self-interest. They go where they'll be the easiest to finish that college. They're enrolled in various private colleges, and in these colleges they're learning from some notebooks, some notes, some scripts. In some private colleges, you have a case to pass five or six exams in the course of one day, which is physically impossible, but in these colleges it's possible. From these colleges, unfortunately, they come out, formally, highly educated young people, essentially, people without a lot of knowledge, people who have acquired some diplomas, but with these diplomas they'll have a hard time working. It will be difficult for them to provide their life existence based on these diplomas. That's what no one's into in Serbia. We have reform at all costs. State colleges, in the need to withstand competition with a huge number of private colleges, lower their criteria. A growing number of children are enrolled in state schools and a growing number in private schools. At most private colleges, the principle is to end anyone who pays an adequate amount of tuition. I don't know if he lost a year at some private college or if he couldn't finish that college. If the parents are rich enough, if they have enough money, the child will finish college. What happens next to that child, the future man, the Serbian citizen, who here in Serbia will have to be a lawyer, economist, doctor, engineer, etc.? Nobody cares about that. Mr. Dejan Mirovic raised a very serious question here. I think the minister of education or someone from the Serbian government, however, had to explain how it is possible that such an intellectual size, such a respected professor, such as Mihajlo Djuric, would resign to membership at the National Educational Council. Mihajlo Đuric is a man who had the courage, in the early 1970s, when many were silent, supported Brozova, Kardel and Bakaric's idea of redecorating the Yugoslav Federation, to raise his voice against a perverse concept of state order, which eventually led to the breaking of the former Yugoslavia and all those horrors that occurred during the 1990s. At a time when Mihajlo Đuric stood up against amendments to the 1963 SFRJ Constitution, then when he stood up against constitutional solutions under the 1974 Constitution, many prominent lawyers, law professors, kept silent, supported every order by Broz and Cardela. Some of them are still active today, for example, Alexander Fira, who is one of the creators of the 1974 Constitution, and is now the rector of a private university in Novi Sad and one of the writers of the Statute of Vojvodina. The tragic fact is that today, in the same business of breaking Serbia, those who in 1988 expelled Bosko Krunic and the autonomous camel from IV Vojvodina and those who defended them are those who expelled them. Today, both are at the same job and deceive Serbian citizens that the Statute of the Vojvodina Act, which should be faster to introduce Serbia into the EU, is in fact a pure separatist and anti-constitutional act, which should break both this and this kind of Republic of Serbia, because the various anti-Serbian minds and such a Republic of Serbia, in the AV, Tito's borders, are too large. The question arises, the question has been asked by an aphorist many years ago, a question of the look of witty, but is it very serious, how small does Serbia have to be, in order not to be big? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a real campaign going on in the media these days, in Parliament, on the Internet, against the SPC. The campaign began several days ago in the Serbian Parliament, when some MPs said that some dignitaries of the Serbian Orthodox Church stand behind the withdrawal of the Law on Discrimination. If you open Facebook these days, you will see that every day, there is an increasing number of signatories to some petition against the clearance of Serbian society. There's a need to get religious out of our primary and secondary schools. It is said that in the Serbian part of clerofashism, the worst possible lies are against not only the current dignitaries of the SPC, but also against bishop Nikola Velimirovic. He defines himself as some sort of a supporter of Adolf Hitler, a man of the darkest views of the world. It is claimed that religion is a coin and that it represents no science in the right sense of that word, but a factory for the production of new believers. The signatories of the initiative demand that religion be kicked out of primary and secondary schools, because it allegedly serves to produce believers who will be against all those European standards that accept the entire democratic and civilized world. It is worth being a homosexual and atheist and hating Serbia in Serbia these days. If you say you are a Serb, that you respect Serbia's territorial integrity, that you respect the SPC, then you are in danger of being enrolled in some dark organisations that are allegedly not aware of all the essence of the benefits that EU civilization brings us. I think it's high time we had a serious debate about the situation in our education system, both basic and medium, and high. It is high time for the Minister of Education to answer our question – how is it possible for the most famous person in the National Educational Council, without wanting to undermine other members, Mihajlo Djuric, to resign and not look back? In the 1970s, Mihajl Đuric was well noted by Dejan Mirovic, defended by individual European intellectuals, but real European intellectuals, not those defeated, not these 'bolons', but intellectuals with a reputation, whose names were spoken with respect. At a time when many local intellectuals were silent and kissing the laps of Josip Broz and Edward Cardel, and today the creators of the Statute of Vojvodina and who knows all the legal proposals, in the defense of Mihajl Đurić, was well noticed by Dejan Mirovic, the famous German philosopher Ernst Bloch, a man who resented Croatian intelligence, who resented the University of Zagreb and the Matica of Croatia, who resented Franji Tudjman, who published the book "The Unspent of Historical Reality", in 1989, and some said that the programme act of the Croatian Democratic community. This Ernst Bloh said in the 1970s, he said a famous sentence, I hope, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that you will not punish me, just quoting this great German philosopher – that all Croats living in Germany are fascists and that they are members of various Ustasha organisations working to break Yugoslavia. Such a man stood up in the defense of Mihajl Đurić, who had seen what would happen in 1991 and later in the early 1970s, which is that constitutional solutions from the 1974 Constitution were, in fact, timed to the entire state of Yugoslavia and that all this led to what happened in the early 1990s. Now the script is the same. Those who wrote the 1974 Constitution are now writing and writing this statute of Vojvodina, the same ones who claimed that the 1974 constitutional reform is supposed to strengthen Yugoslavia, at a time when Vladimir Bakaric said that the Yugoslav Federation - a Federation that is Federation, which means - which is dying; today they claim that through the Statute of Vojvodina, Serbia will be easier to join the EU. Not with such a statute of Vojvodina, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, Serbia does not want to join the EU, Serbia will not be, or it may be, but within some limits that are completely different from those of the existing. A few days ago, the head of your party claimed that your party would vote against the Statute of Vojvodina if he heard the opinion of one professor of Law School that the Statute of Vojvodina was unconstitutional. I draw your attention, on 1 December 2008, at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, there was a scientific debate on the Statute of Vojvodina and many prominent lawyers and professors of law from Belgrade and Novi Sad, saying that the Statute of Vojvodina is a separatist, anti-constitutional act, that almost 90% of the provisions of the statute are directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and not only to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but that the solutions contained in that statute do not exist anywhere in Europe. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it would be good if the National Educational Council would do its jobs. Unfortunately, the ruling coalition will elect party listeners who will listen to Boris Tadic and his Western mentors, and the ultimate goal will be to destroy Serbia's school completely and turn young people in Serbia, children and youth into a rental labour force of Western capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14845	Mr. Mileta Poscurica has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14846	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14847	I warn the MPs of the SRS not to interfere with the MP as he speaks. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14848	... I've learned about students, students, high school students, nothing unusual to me, it's just a question of the level of suitability of the debauchery, where it's being conducted. I wanted to say that this may be a unique opportunity, when I talk about this point of the agenda and about the National Educational Council, to remind ourselves that when this concept of law was passed, in which members of the National Educational Council, or a number of members, were given serious competences, we asked the question of the rationality of such numbers, not always and in detail what composition it is and how rational and efficient it is. It was only through this report which came to the Education Committee that he, although destined as the predecessor of a legally mandatory annual report, to come to the National Assembly, revealed things that we had not always seen in the "backgrand". In fact, it was a long time before the Council formed, and then there was no time for the Assembly to consider the National Educational Council report each year. The first time he was in front of MPs of a mini assembly projection, the mini composition of this Parliament, we together, all unanimously, saw that it was not working properly, it did not work properly and that the Council members, headed by the president, did not work very hard, that, by submitting such a report, first of all, to the Committee, they were hiding some segments that would not be accusing them. I began with a sentence – that the opportunity, I wanted to and I thought that perhaps, in some way, we would take into defense the National Educational Council, which is working, or at least writing about how he was working on the problem of adopting a strategy, the key purpose of his existence, the key points by which he would be valued, faced with problems, because he was not overly surrounded by attention and the possibility of co-operation with important state institutions. To adopt a national strategy, says the president of the Council, we need to have agreement and co-ordination with the two institutions that regulate the law. These are the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education and the Council for Higher Education, then the Office for Quality Assessment, but also the Conference of the University of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, the National Employment Service, in fact, all relevant factors. Why am I bringing this up? Members of the Council say -- we don't have good salaries, they're regular, we don't get other fees, we don't have room to work in, but in their report, they say they had to go to the Federation Palace, to some other institutions. It's not so bad working at the Federation Palace, there's room there. They even had to send some committees and commissions to the interior of Serbia, where, paradoxically for one such report that goes to the Committee, by name and last name, there were zealous directors, who showed great will and desire to receive the commission's work. Seems that advice was pretty much ad hoc. They really say -- we had 25 Council meetings, or 100 different committee meetings, something was going on. The accusing fact for the work of many commissions that they had not had enough communication with different state institutions, the Statistics Institute, the Ministry of Finance, even the mutual commission for the evaluation of education, to improve the quality of education, could not be found. The textbooks commission did not find a common language with the ministry. Why am I telling these details? It was important for the Minister of Education to be present, so that he might be able to answer a series of dependent questions about how other bodies, similar bodies, the National Council for Higher Education, function. In scientific and research work, you again have one piece of advice that also doesn't come to make its strategy. Although he had a great number of opportunities to say it, the President of the Council presented reasons for not going further; probably they are watching too – a man should not exaggerate. What they certainly did and what they did was change the program in the field of primary education and the final programme for the 7th and 6th classes was adopted. They're left with a program for the eighth grade for the next period. In a commentary of work, or a proposal for a measure for future activity, as they thought after that reconstruction in 2009, also envision changes in curricula and programmes for the seventh and eighth classes. Something that has just been brought in, it has to change, and yet it says, in a certain way, that either they were not agreeable, coherent in opinions, attitudes, or that they had no understanding of the one to whom the report was submitted. Of course, they report to the National Assembly on their work, but their organisational conclusions give serious suggestions to the Ministry. All of them were zealous to make a new law, under which they were founded, wrong, and that they intended to propose a law amending the Law on Education and Education, a proposal for a change. They've worked hard to change the law themselves. This goes in favor of those who, when the Law was passed, said that the Law was not good and that it would not solve all the current problems. We stayed, on the committee itself, on request – are we really going to change the basic education system into three plus three plus three, or are we going – preschool and eight classes, as we have. We are confident, and we are not talking about it, because the minister has no, that the issue of effects has often been raised from this pay phone, mostly from opposition parties, how we operate high education in Bologna, to fine picantries that are necessary and serious consequences for schooling children, for their parents, for setting up leadership staff in higher institutions. The state is funding, the state is not asking who will be the dean, who will be the rector, etc. There are also a number of other questions – why could the National Educational Council, where we are looking for the shift of some key people, have some resignations not worked? Because, except for his lack of cooperation, he did not come out with any proposals that were the authentic composition of the Law. It seems to me that the Law states that the National Educational Council sets standards, and that standards for introducing teachers, educators, etc. Watch out, someone finishes school and they ask for it – who has a license for an educator. How can a nurse, when she enters an educational process in preschool education, get a license, how much of a license she needs, whether she's one, medical, or another license, for teachers, double licenses. This is what we have in these chambers of health workers and pharmacists, people who have two specializations, colleges, have the same problem, double licenses. But it is out of jurisdiction that the Council sets standards, for example, skills and skills for the director. You know, according to law, the director is setting up a local self-government. The members of the commission who do this suggest that this is not how it works, and we are on the Committee, I think, most of the time, agree that it is unnecessary to specifically educate the board of directors. What kind of school would that be? Who would take the money to prepare these people, when we know that, at the will of local authorities, by changing relations in parliaments of local self-government, one director will be half a year, one year or two? No one touched the report or the serious problems that occurred in high schools, other high schools, that set themselves up around student excursions, about so-called. The school dinar. There's something going on with free textbooks. There are many sensitive problems that are not mentioned in the Council Report. Were the Council not available? I can imagine that, because when the President of the Council writes a report, he says – they drew their views from the knowledge of members of the National Educational Council and the Commission. It is impossible for only by learning some things, responsible people, and there are certainly 200, over 200 people, to learn something from a general way of informing. They have to be in the field. They must be directly involved in the activities of the educational and educational process, we go to this zero new one, to know more than mere knowledge. Then, probably, a lot of problems would open up to them. When, for example, you look at the report of one of the commissions, which is the Commission for Equipment, Equipment Standards, they go to all schools, according to structure, profile, technical school, high school, other educational profiles, but they encounter the problem of 57 experimental schools. These 57 experimental schools, a model of education for something that would otherwise have been done as projects under the auspices of foreign companies, have been abbreviations by the parties, completely unknown to me, someone has involved their hands in the education system, proposed new educational profiles. Such 57 experimental schools, with these profiles, exist, and we don't know, and they don't give us a report on whether it's so necessary. The truth is, in one segment, they say -- we think there's too many of them, we think that some educational profiles are being doubled, let's say, a rail chamber, etc., a rail bar, as I recall. So, there's a whole series of ambiguities and problems that commission members have been facing in their work, but what have they been doing? They complained to the Minister, complained to the National Educational Council, as some kind of organ they came from. They say – we had no communication, but finally a solution for everything – we change the Law on the basics of education and education. How do we change it, if we don't have a strategy, if we don't know what we want, in which direction do we change it? Let's cancel the director's license. What's to teach the principal school for the director? Who's gonna be screened, and if you read him in advance to influence that school, then you've been anticipating him as future director?- I'm sorry. You're having trouble with the coalition at the bar, and you're about to lose power in some community. If you've sent 10 of them, then there's gonna be security now and somebody's got to pay for it. Para, as a rule, and for the training of teachers, and for their departure to seminars at which they will be trained, in the area of compulsory training, as the Law predicted, is becoming less and less. We're afraid that, perhaps, some funds would be denied, or, in a certain way, it would fall on the parent's pocket, and then someone else would finance such demands and needs. So, quite a number of questions have been raised and new members of the Council will be assigned enough to answer only those questions asked by outgoing members of the Council, or, more honestly, which had to leave because the mandates had expired; some have gone under a number of other circumstances, or they have to leave, or they want to. It is enough that these new arrivals, along with the others, as long as they still have years in office, bring answers to the dilemmas and ambiguities that their colleagues left them. In our committee, although the Law regulates the proposals of national minorities – to be a member of this composition, we asked for further strengthening of the composition of people in the field of education and education from the part of members belonging to national minorities. On the next, joint committees, we will talk about the use of Serbian language in research, training, scientific and research work, we will see how much and what it cares about. Of course, we have no record in this council, no view of neglecting the official use of the Serbian language. There are many things that are not answered, but it concerns only the sphere of education that goes to high school, according to this law and this advice. Only higher education is a special problem. There were also questions for the minister himself, a man from the ministry, who could, by the way, not ask parliamentary questions, to answer some of the misunderstandings that are coming to us. Approximately, these would be elements of suggestion, elements of reasoning for those people who are either being replaced, or they have to leave, to understand our whole and to blame for the failure of the Council, it is clear at least to our parliamentary group, not only those members. If the Ministry and the relevant institutions, who works in the Commission for Spatial Standards, saw the report of that committee, what the chairman of that committee is looking for, then they would see that the entire local infrastructure, Demographic Institute, Statistics, Finance, Architectural Faculty, everyone should get involved, and we are aware that when you involve a lot of entities in the realisation of a job, it will be badly realised. There are, of course, normatives and standards that are taught in medicine, school hygiene, basics that must be known – and light, surface index, chair height and more. This should, perhaps, be rationalized, not go so far as to expand the work of these commissions, that they will not be able to meet, and then the commission says – we had the best intention. As much as it used to be, there was a wide discussion, but we couldn't meet, he didn't come, he didn't answer, he didn't answer, and then -- the norms don't reach. When you don't have all that, the question is what kind of strategy they're going to be able to make, to propose to the Ministry, to have them comb it, if they want it and have competences at all, and then to deliver it to the Assembly for adoption. Finally, we've been in the fifth year since the law was passed, with a lot of nice words about how education should be changed, that children should be made easier by schooling. We are witnessing in their practical lives that their schooling is neither easier nor cheaper, to gain a lot of knowledge over the Internet, that there is no basic education. We ask ourselves, why does it go to this extent with the story that children can get and use textbooks in the educational process as anyone wants? I understand that there is liberalisation, but the commission must assess which textbooks correspond to the curriculum and the program, because it is impossible to use different textbooks in one class for one teaching class. How's that teacher gonna teach? It is not logical for a math teacher to decide on this textbook in one school, and another teacher, in the same school, to decide on a mathematical textbook, let's say, for the second or third grade of high school, another author. Where's that coherence? Isn't there a simple programme and a plan that implies, and which, primarily, the committees of this council would have to do, to say -- it has to be mastered, that, that, that and that matter, and then whoever writes the textbook, to see if he did it? When it's all the same, then it's possible to choose whose textbook to take. They are not the Bureau for publishing textbooks, as a public company, and other publishers are placed in the same plane. So there are a large number of problems that are now clear and accessible to us, not based on knowledge, as the President of the Council writes, but based on the information they have given us, and he is headed by this advice, but also on what we can hear as parents in schools, which we can hear in the shows of thematically dedicated to this problem. We see that in five years less has been done. If this necessary shift is for some people, some of what they want, and some of what they have to do, a good sign that this important institution, when it has already been brought in, in the number in which it is, to work and to live, then we should also take a critical view of that fact, but also a clear guarantee that it will be better with new people. And since this half of the people who stay and want to change the law will work with the other half of the coming ones, that will be a question, hopefully, and this body, and certainly the Committee, which, in this year, is likely to have some new, different and more content reports. Thank you. During the presentation of the People's MP, Mileta Poscurica, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14849	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Miletta Poscurica. I would like to point out that the MPs of the SRS continue to interfere with the MPs as they speak. Once again, I warn you that I will be forced to give appropriate measures to everyone, since I am unable to identify who does this. Please, the sounds and kicks of the legs are coming, apparently, from the SRS parliamentary group. So, you'll get some sanctions, all of you, now I'm warning you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic asked for a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14850	I am reporting a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly because you are unable to allow MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia to speak on the same terms. You know, a young fellow, a handkerchief serves to wipe his nose. (The People's MP Milan Avramovic showed a transparent one that reads "The betrayer". )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14851	I give a warning to Mr Milan Avramovic. Go on, Mr. Nikolic. Please, don't throw it away, I'll be forced to give you the next sentence. I've made a warning and I'm asking you to put down that pamphlet. Go on, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14852	It is clear the intention of the MPs of the SRS to keep us away from this pay phone, but you do not have the courage and hide your hands and feet under the bench, Dragan Todorovic hits us with a shoe under the bench. You can't fight for some of your ideas, you can't fight for ideas, you're fighting us as humans. You do not admit that we are MPs, although it is recognised by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You're a closed group that has its own rules and principles. Please, I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you don't remember. Okay, Momo, that's why I saved you from prison, that's why you're doing it now, and I don't want to save you anymore, you know. So, you have your own standards, I admit, and we have our own criteria. Perhaps I am not satisfied with the number of MPs that the Progress Group of Serbia has. Did I resent you? Maybe I think in that campaign I was worth as much as Vojislav Seselj, I worked, and he gave his name. Again, we don't have half the MPs who won the list. Yeah, I was walking, and you raised the reputation of the SRS. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, find a way to keep this from being a subterfuge shop or a casangian or a Kujundzijan or a national assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We don't throw any MPs, we don't make a mess, we let everyone here say everything they want, please let us talk too. We will no longer stay away from this pay phone, we are going into a campaign for new elections, we want to present our views clearly, we want to show the citizens of Serbia how much better we are than everyone else, and especially those who do not realize how much better it is. (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. I'm done. I'm sorry, but really, from now on, either you will allow this to look like the National Assembly, or, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, resign; perhaps there is someone who could put this in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14853	Thank you. Mr. Milan Avramovic answered first, according to the Rules of Procedure, if I understand. You, too? Then first Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14854	Mr. Nikolic, a criminal report that I hired 72 people in business space when I was director of business space. That's what I was in custody for, in an investigation, two and a half months. Of those 72 people, at least 30 were hired by Tomislav Nikolic, who was the director of the business space before me. So it wasn't you who saved my head from prison, it was I who saved you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14855	No more replicas. Mrs. Marina Ragush has a word. I'm sorry, I'm in no condition to hear everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14856	This is proof that there is no freedom of expression even in this room when it comes to the beloved MP of the ruling majority. So I have the right, by all democratic principles and by the European statutes, to express my dissatisfaction and to show my position. I didn't endanger the speakers, I didn't interfere with their speech, I wrote my opinion with transparency, and that's my right. My replica refers to that I am not a "young colleague", because I am an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That older colleague who called me that is not an MP in the Serbian Parliament and he has to understand that, that's the first thing. The second thing, a banner that says "the traitor" is a classification that man himself accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14857	I would just like to remind you of Article 101, which says: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself on the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers has the right to a replica." That's how it's regulated. I ask you not to abuse this member who regulates the replica. He's got Mrs. Marina Ragush's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is a very important topic on the agenda. It is good that we have the opportunity to talk about it with more aspects, trying to create an atmosphere with common efforts that should be suitable for healthy growth of the youngest population in Serbia. My predecessors had the opportunity to inform the Serbian public that the National Educational Council was essentially not working. Unfortunately, five years after the law was passed, the situation in Serbian school was more than catastrophic. The situation in all educational and educational institutions is unacceptable, and, in the end, the results can be fatal for these generations, which, within the framework of the Serbian society, should be put on hold at some point to take responsibility for themselves. I would only ask you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to tell me how much time there is left for the SRS MP group, so that I can conjecture my presentation, because there are a lot of registered speakers and I would not want to deny anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14859	There's a total of 50 minutes left before you start exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14860	Thank you very much. So, the parties that have gravitated, as well as today, are gravitating, within the former democratic opposition to Serbia, are almost nine years in power. We can even this out with the period that the former DOS most often calls – the totalitarian period of the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, which, by the way, ends today three years after the murder in the NATO Pact disciplinary commission, called The Hague tribunal. So, you don't have, gentlemen from the ruling position of government, no argument, no excuse to say that you tried, and you failed to implement at least one reform, at least in one area of society. You will admit, for sure, that education and education is one of the fundamental areas of the Serbian society that has almost been destroyed. That's how it is, it says statistics. Of course, I'll try to be very concise. Data available to the SRS were in 2008, so last year. I'm going to talk about that dimension, very briefly, which, unfortunately, has been neglected within the entire educational process, which, by standards, was meant to work out the National Educational Council, unfortunately, is not, and concerns the educational functions of the entire education system. So, incidents last school year have started five days since the first school bell, when a 15-year-old student, from the village of Cepura, brutally beaten at the Machine and Electrical School in Paracino. A student of the Medical School of Saturday, 17-year-old, last day of March last year, ladies and gentlemen, stabbed his peer with a knife after a fight in the school yard. That child is injured by the liver and the heart tissue, while the person suspected of this brutal crime has been detained. A fourth grade student of the seventh Belgrade High School, in March of last year, was injured when, ladies and gentlemen, an axe attacked two young men as he and his peers returned from the store where he bought his lunch. In May of last year, a student of the Central Restaurant and Tourism School, Relja Popović, 19 years old, so I declare his name and last name, was wounded with a gun to the stomach, at the entrance to school, at the corner of South Bogdan and Gavril Principe Street, on the Green Wreath. A 16-year-old eighth grade elementary school student, St. Sava, in Novi Paz, was wounded by a gun shot, ladies and gentlemen, at a physical education class on February 1st last year. A student of the Technical School in Željnik, Milos Nesic, 18, was injured in December, on a small vacation, when he was hit by Damir Osmanovic, 17, in a classroom, an axe, ladies and gentlemen. In September of last year, a seventh-grade elementary school student, "Brothers Baruch", severely injured teacher Snezana Radic. From the bigger beatings, while she was lying half-witted on the stairs of the school, she was rescued by her principal and colleagues. The incident took place on vacation, and the attack ended in a disciplinary action against students, otherwise, from earlier known for the incidents. Five days since the beginning of last school year, in the "Holy Sava" High School in Belgrade, Milan Jevtic, who was found in a bag by a school policeman, ladies and gentlemen, was arrested. The security of students in 488 schools in Serbia, in this Serbia, after democratic changes, means not an educational chamber, but 260 school police officers, of which 104 police officers are engaged in 141 Belgrade elementary and secondary schools. In the MUP, the introduction of school police has produced good results, as the number of crimes committed, violations, number of fights among students has been reduced, drug use and has been placed under the control of juvenile prostitution. It is, ladies and gentlemen, in short, based on the statistics the SRS has, the situation in the educational and educational institutions of Serbian society, and not in higher education institutions, but in pre-school, primary and secondary schools. So, just based on this statistic, gentlemen of the ruling majority, you have no argument left to discuss reforming any areas of the system and the social order of Serbia after October 5th. This is, therefore, an inheritance and this is the signature of your authority, the signature of what is an inability to carry out the responsibility you have accepted on yourself until the end, the responsibility for what is a catastrophic state in the context of the increase in juvenile delinquency, where we are talking about prostitution, the use of heavy drugs, the delinquent behavior, the attempted murder among minors. It's a picture of a Serbian society. That is what, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, you daily tell parents and all those who, with full confidence, should leave their children behind, chasing for profit and trying to provide everyday existence to those who are responsible for the safety of their children, and about the education that we don't even talk about. So, the situation in the Serbian society of the SRS began a campaign some time ago. We're going to analyze it exactly this way, with concrete statistical data. This is a situation where we simply, and the public must know, we don't have a good answer. What the opposition can only do is realize a catastrophic situation, but it's not in a position to do anything in that direction. We truly express our concern for the day-to-day safety of all of us, and especially of the youngest, where the responsibility of all of you until the first degree is expressed. What is most drastic and where this prestigious home failed, is that we all got involved in the process and we expected someone who took responsibility to address the educational system in Serbia, to take certain steps, and we all took our heads to the other side of this situation. How come, ladies and gentlemen, that no one has thought of, in addition to all these disciplinary measures, which are otherwise celebrated lately, to call personally the people responsible for this situation in Serbian society? How is it that to this day, in fact, we do not know what the situation in the National Educational Council is? Are we, as MPs, the most prestigious and the most important institutions in one society, to learn this when it becomes too late? These are no longer dilemmas, no questions, this is definitely a situation where certain institutions should, in those 12 hours and five minutes, so, five minutes after 12, take the appropriate steps to correct what has been done, and terrible failures have been made. Slowly, but surely, Serbian society is relying on everything that should be, about, a picture of the 'wild west', of which we had the opportunity to listen and watch and loathe over such scenes. Serbian society relies on delinquency. The criteria of Serbian society are completely disrupted – which is bad, that's the best. That's where we all failed. So, the ruling majority really doesn't have any more arguments to talk about any reforms, but neither did the opposition, either, managed to make that critical pressure enough to get us all to come to our senses and start to edit this society, to create an atmosphere where everyone, but indeed everyone, will have the same chance of living a safe life of decent people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14861	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word. Your task force has 39 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you insisted today and said Mr. Korac's apparition is useful and that MPs should pay attention to him. I share your opinion, and I believe that it has been a great benefit for Mr. Dejan Mirovic, Master Alexander Martinovic, Mrs. Marine Ragus, but what is the problem is that those who need to listen and learn lessons from that statement do not want or want to listen. The number of Members of the ruling majority is in favour of this claim. Unfortunately, and accordingly, Serbia is in one spot today, in a flu for which the government in Serbia is solely responsible. We are a country that is rare for many things, and even for the fact that the government does not want to accept any part of the responsibility for the fungi in which the state and the people have introduced it, but is trying to transfer it to the burden of the opposition, in this case, specifically, to a single parliamentary group. Even if we were to transfer that truth to paper and draw it, I don't think you'd be ready to accept it as reality. This best illustrates Serbia's situation, and when it comes to health care, and when it comes to economics, the fight against corruption, audits, and today we have come to this educational council. All that is happening today in Serbia is one systemic destruction. As Serbia has system laws that regulate certain areas, this government, very tendingly, is creating a systemic destruction that destroys and destroys the same state. When it comes to education, the results of that destruction need to be felt. At this point, we may not feel it in the right and full light, but generations that are yet to stand and accept the burden of responsibility that this country leads, produced from education and education as it is today in Serbia, will not be able to meet in any way all those challenges and obligations that will be put before them. I don't want to discredit any of the candidates in these decisions through my story today. Of course, in those few sentences that I am going to say, I would certainly like to leave out academic Michael Đuric, who expressed his stance not on the National Council, not on anything else, but on the political concept promoted and managed by the government, the ruling majority, whose, unfortunately, you too are part of. The people who are in these decisions, in principle, are most discredited by themselves, by the fact that they want to put themselves in the position of this political concept. Any disqualification on their account would be unnecessary. They want to be part of the project that represents, I repeat for the first time, the destruction and that will not provide for anything good when it comes to education, education and the state of the nation in perspective, nothing, but absolutely nothing good. If you analyse the situation in school, there is much that can be put on the burden of the National Council, as well as the authorities. First of all, the National Council, ever since it was formed, until today, the predecessors said, had an obligation to bring a national strategy, and he didn't. Not only has he not brought the strategy, but they say they do not have the capacity to meet the challenges that the creation of this strategy brings with it. We have a completely irrational network of schools. The state doesn't do anything to change that. You have three high schools and for those same three schools, the Ministry makes different solutions to the appointment of directors, and the conditions are the same and what needs to be done are exactly the same. You have a situation – too much teaching program. Nobody cares about that. Even some teaching programs include things that have been taught in colleges so far. You have a problem with our schools being left without students. You know how these things fit? It corresponds with an evaluation system and criteria being brought down to the lowest level, the lowest limits, in order for schools to survive, so that educational workers can keep their jobs, because the state has no answer to what is called the system and the organisation, at least when it comes to education. I would like to give an example that was almost updated and opened for this speaker, our colleague Petar Jojic opened it, and it is about that young mathematician who is world champion. To this day, the state does not find a way to help this man, this child, his parents, and to provide him with a scholarship. It seems to me that for an annual level they've been asking for about 210 thousand dinars. The state offered them one-time aid of 80,000. Can we assume that the state is selling it, that the state is waiting for someone from abroad to come and offer money, which will be overly necessary and acceptable for both the child and his family? It is the attitude, status and relationship of this country and state leadership towards education, as a key and essential to our perspective and our future. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government in Serbia has turned education into factories, or manufacturing companies, I have to say, to the greatest extent, people who are not nationally aware, who are not responsible, unfortunately, to one extent, and mediocrity. I think it's a generation-produced factory whose basic motive, or the principle of life, will be conformism. So we will do everything to change our authority and responsibility to areas such as education, health, the fight against corruption and crime, which you obviously will not and do not want in a serious and responsible way to catch yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14863	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word has Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14864	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that candidates who are proposed for members of the Educational Council do not have party books, but I am convinced that in their work they will act as tough members of the DS and that, as so far as they have been formed in 2004, the Education Council will continue to work as a kind of ideological committee of the DOS, to promote and impose false European values, and especially this Bologna concept of education. My opinion is that Serbia and Serbia's education at this point need something different, especially when it comes to Council members. People with moral and professional authority are needed, who will be immune to the influence of party secretaries, especially those from the DS, and who will be angry opponents of this Bologna system. The most important task of such an Enlightenment Council would be to find the shortest way out of this 'Bolonian Foreign' and to find a new system of education based on values and on the practice that existed in Serbian society before we experienced this moral and economic occupation by the West. I point out this because I believe that the introduction of the Bologna system, after these wars we've had since 1991 to 1999, the bombing of Serbia and the robbery privatisation, is the greatest evil that the Serbian people have experienced in the last 50 years. The Bologne system is one hoax of the creators of the new world order aimed at the countries and peoples of the former Yugoslavia, the former Soviet Union and the countries of Eastern Europe. Practically, biological progeny and ideological heirs, those who time-traveled communism to Serbs and Russians, have now done the same by introducing the Bologna Education System. In serious Western countries, the schooling system in Bologna, approximately, is treated as second-rate education for immigrants and for poor people. When someone graduates from the University of Bologna there, practically, the Faculty of Professionals, then has no right to continue these academic studies. For these very reasons, those who forced us to introduce "Bolonje", their children are mostly not educated in Serbia, but are sent to private schools and universities abroad. Before these reforms, we were promised that the situation in education would be better, that the education system would be more effective, however, the facts say that the situation is worse than it was before. Until the inauguration of the so-called The Bologna system, our students and students regularly won medals in international competitions in mathematics, physics and information. Now they regularly return empty fists and the results they achieve there are becoming weaker and weaker. The other thing that is noticeable is that, with the beginning of these DOS reforms, there has been practically a flood of higher schools, universities and universities in Serbia. We're almost there, so we're going to have an ideal system, an ideal state, that every city has a university, every municipality has a university and every village has a higher school. Repeaters, who in their time could not finish primary school, are now starting private colleges and betraying their own diplomas. Up until 15 years ago, it was hard for you to meet an ordinary citizen, an average educated, on the street, who wouldn't list you from booze all universities, not only in Serbia, but also in the former Yugoslavia. I'm willing to bet that if someone met Minister Zarko Obradovic on the street and if he insisted, one wouldn't be able to remember to list all the universities that exist in Serbia at the moment. The next defeating thing is that students are a little bit more, so in colleges they won't get fives and sixs; now they get points, they get marks A, B, C, D, roughly, like they're taking a driver's license and not a university degree. To pass the exam in good times, students had to meet two preconditions, or one of them – one to know, or have good relationships. Now they don't need each other. The first condition they have to meet to get their diplomas is that they have money, that they have euros. Unfortunately, there is no exam in Serbia that euros today cannot pass. But if students don't have money, they have a way out, it's enough that they come to classes regularly, that they come to practice regularly, to do a few colloquiums, to collect a number of points, and when they go to the exam, then they don't have to, literally, to speak a single word, teachers are obliged to give them a transitional grade on that Bologna system. The last thing I'm going to remind myself of today is the values that students once fought for, as some kind of social avant-garde, as the most progressive part of Serbian and every society. You remember it was the students who raised the revolution. In 1968, they rebelled for reasons of solidarity with French students and because they did not like certain communist foreigners that were happening in the system at the time. In the 1990s, students are in the Student City, perhaps some of you remember, then I studied, protested for three days because they were not satisfied with the student standard, it is the famous action – bread and salt. After that, demonstrations came about the persecution of the Serb population in KIM, then the aggression against the Serb population in Republika Srpska, and later in BiH. There's no such thing today. The last few demonstrations we had in Belgrade were motivated by only one reason – to reduce the number of points they need to collect during the year, so that, at the end of the year, during the test period, they would manage the exam and one college year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14865	Thank you, Mr. Maric. The word is Dr. Pai Boys. He's not there. He's on the board. The word is Mrs Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us are the proposals for a decision on the resolution of three members of the National Educational Council and a summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Educational Council, which was submitted by the Education Committee. This is the result of a general dissatisfaction with the work of the Council, which cost Serbia about 74 million dinars last year. We all know that the state of education at the edge of tolerance is, above all, a fundamental role, which is the teaching and education of children and youth and their preparation for taking part in the work of Serbia's future society. This condition is not from yesterday, nor can it be resolved quickly, but the lack of ideas, plans and actions in this regard is unacceptable. Fast and efficient was only a demonstration of the education system by 2000 and the installation of various innovations, which, apart from the recorded chaos at all levels of education, did not bring any quality, especially the one that is suitable for the century in which we live. Since the arrival of DOS to power, our school has survived countless alleged reforms and reformers, from Gasa Knezevic, through Radoš Ljušić, Vuksanovic and who knows which of the "Bolognaci" and "Europeans". The consequences of these quasireforms, completely inappropriate to our needs, our mentality, our possibilities, are visible at every turn. Schools have lost their status and an appropriate-experienced role. Teachers and teachers have lost authority and have become subject to ridicule, even violence by students, even parents, and the worst of all is the devastating level of knowledge, i.e. intolerable ignorance, indifference and lack of awareness of how important knowledge is in every man's life. The children are not aware of this defect of knowledge and all kinds of degradation, as a consequence of uneducatedness. The responsibility is on us, the elderly, who have passed a different system of education and education, which has instilled in us what is most important, which is the awareness of the importance of continuous learning, continuous education and personal training. This system, although very bad in terms of historical-national and religious content, did not encourage the so-called ". Creative chaos as something reportedly new and relaxing for the youngest students, encouraging them to walk, beat, eat, sing and teachers lead to tears. We knew by then that there was no 'creative chaos', that the chaos around us was causing and instigating chaos in us. The creators of chaos are those with polluted consciousness, people with a completely twisted system of values, or with no system of value, and everything in the function of the new world order and production of meaningless bolts in a global corporate machine for making profits. Without valid role models in the house, at school, in the media, children and young, since they have no life experience, they still feel that something is wrong and they don't know how to deal with it. So it's no wonder they resort to various destructions, aggression, violence and alcohol and drug consumption, as a sort of defense against fear, chaos and hopelessness. There is, however, a smaller percentage of talented and valuable children, whose parents are making great efforts to support them and enable their development, interest and ability. It is necessary for the state to create a stimulating, educational and life-long environment for all children, the content, modern, verified, true textbooks, freed politics, outdated speculations and delusions in the development of human species and the development of science, culture, textbooks, teachings and books that develop imagination, creation, independence in work, curious and research spirit, warmth and solidarity in relationships, tolerance, instead of imposing unhealthy competitions, on the principle of 'vineers' and 'luzers' and so on. Then, you need to take care of teachers, teachers and teachers, from standards, to professional training, and to regain respect for this once very respected, favorite profession. Also, investing in the Internet system and learning standards for children who are educated outside the place of residence, or for those who are without parental ageing, eliminating all scholarships and enabling modern learning, bringing school facilities into service, since many schools in Serbia, with more than 150 years of tradition, ruins and prone to collapse. This can be done by reducing unnecessary budget costs, eliminating countless functions of party personnel, preventing embezzlement, theft, robbery, corruption behaviour at the top of government, bringing the state administration to a reasonable pace and directing the funds identified in vital systems, businesses, education, health, science and culture, what we have been warning about for years. I hope that some new council will accept the seriousness of the work on such an important social segment as education and correct the mistakes of previous ministers, which can be corrected. Those strategic, dosage errors in the education system, which cannot be corrected, will have lasting consequences for many generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14867	Thank you, Mrs. Plecevic. The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that there is no more important topic than what we are talking about today, and what is the ratio of the Democratic Party to the number of MPs present in the hall. The Minister of Education was to be present at today's session. If it's where I think it's supposed to be, okay, but it could have been one of the secretary of state or his assistants in this room. The National Educational Council was established on 23.05.2005, under the Law on the basic system of education and education. In all, he has 42 members. You'll agree, it's like one parliament, and the results it's achieved, not only that council, but also the Ministry of Education, in the last 10 years, suggest it's only a great shame. I'm going to give two examples, given the time available to me, of two examples that best show the government's attitude towards the education system, which is the index, and I've seen it and I'm going to bring it to show that I have an illustration, which I don't have today, which says that one of the students in one day passed five exams. You estimate if that's possible. Even with one professor, three exams in one day. He's pretty "talented," but which is a lot, a lot, a fellow Puric. Second diameter. I come from Love. Most people know, Love has a problem building a school building. Nothing's been done on it in the last five years. The local self-government is unable to bring the facility, which has been started and where most of the funds have been invested, to its own ends. We have one paradox, citizens of Serbia, and especially the parents of those children, and they are 598 attending the primary school which was built in 1968, an assembly facility, with a duration of 20 years. So, the license expired 21 years ago and there are a number of other shortcomings. I would not judge, not citizens, not local self-government, nor the parents of the children attending the facility enter into the credibility of the solution, above all, the sanitary inspector, who, since 3 February 2009, has, by his findings, banned the work of that school, and then the Ministry of Education, or the competent inspector. So working in that primary school was banned on 4 February 2009. Educational Inspector, 25. 2. In 2009, it requires that teaching be started immediately. Parents and children, of course, and the teaching staff at that school have two problems. If you don't go to school, it's not anybody's wish, you get lost in the education system, if you go to a school like that, you risk life or at least child injury. As the MP coming from that place, I don't judge the conflict between these two solutions. I don't want to talk about it at all. There's something fat wrong. I appeal, first of all, to the Minister of Education and the Government in general to take this problem seriously. That's what I've been talking about before. Our desire is not that an object, which is fit as it is, which could be a beautiful school building, be an unfinished monument to school, or enlighten, as you wish to call it. Until this problem is resolved, I'll talk about it, because I want to save 598 students who are our future. When I said this was an important topic, that it would have to be someone from the Ministry of Education, I wanted to say that the factories, which our generations produced, some of us ourselves, have less value, because they were made by people. Our children are our greatest treasure. This relationship does not show that we really appreciate it and that we are aware of it. Tell the Minister of Education and the Prime Minister that this problem should, I don't say, be dealt with urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14869	Thank you. National MP Boris Aleksic. There's 11 minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14870	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Council of Education is a very important body, and the bad news is that it is abandoned by academics Mihajlo Djuric, who got up, has already been mentioned by colleagues against the 1974 anti-Serbian constitution. Of course, the government didn't do anything to keep him, which is a big problem. I will draw your attention, first of all, to the harmful reforms that have been initiated in our judiciary and so on. The New Age reforms, symbolically began by destroying books. Believe it or not, the library of the Ministry of Education, with 26,000 titles, was destroyed in 2004, by the entry of new authorities and the launch of new reforms. What happened? These are professional books used by the Ministry of Education and are very important for the development of our education. They were put in some boxes and dumped in the basement to rot, many were dropped, damaged and destroyed. The explanation was that these books were obsolete. I can remind you that one of the greatest intellectuals of the West, Umberto Eko, is just collecting these outdated books, incunabulas, etc. I'll remind you, too, that in Hitler's totalitarian regime, books have been destroyed. Even more frighteningly, information sounds that many titles are being destroyed in the National Library, under the pretext of the elimination of the third and fourth copies. The National Library reportedly had too many copies of books. By law, let me remind you, the National Library can be released from the surplus book, but it has to offer it to other libraries. They destroyed not only the third and fourth copies, threw it away, but destroyed both the first and second copies. They're completely out of headlines. I think it would be necessary to launch an investigation into the destruction of this national treasure, so the library of the Ministry of Education, with 26,000 titles, and to determine what happened in the National Library, which titles were destroyed. You won't be surprised if I tell you that the destruction began the moment the tribunal's cell was formed in The Hague, i.e. The tribunal's prosecutors in The Hague, the National Library, located in an isolated area of the National Library, which must not be joined by employees in the National Library. The tribunal's representatives in The Hague have all the better conditions there than the employees, as if they were in some secret building, a room; they can do whatever they want, go through whatever books they want, maybe some books and get rid of. Also, we need to run an investigation into it. On the other hand, I have already mentioned that Serbia's priceless national treasure is being destroyed. The biggest exhibition our country has ever had on genocide over the Serb people, which covered the period 1941 - 1945, 1991 - 1992, this period 1991 - 1992, very important for the proceedings being conducted today, by author Bojan Isakovic, was destroyed in the Parohijski dom in Vranj, just two weeks after it was included in the proof of defence of Slobodan Milosevic. To remind ourselves, today is the anniversary of the murder of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague. Almost no one mentioned it, except for the MPs of the SRS. Simple, amazing. The "Nudge" reforms are scheduled, among other things, to introduce some American term "bachelor" for graduate students. You could at least appeal to the Latin and French traditions, and use the term "bacalavr", which is more appropriate, is in the European spirit. New Age workshops are set up, where directors and teachers played, believe it or not, vacuum cleaners and home appliances. Those were the reforms. Special attention should be paid to forbidden knowledge. I don't know if you're familiar with it, but a well-known American expert, a Harvard professor, unfortunately, passed away recently, Samuel Huntington, wrote in his book "The Third Wave" that the first wave of democracy in the United States began the moment most of the white population was given the right to vote. On the other hand, we are free to say that the wave of constitutionality, the rule of law, begins with the 'Law' of St. Sava, an peer of the 'Magna Card Liberatum' of 1215, with the fact that 'The Law' of St. Sava is more complete than the 'Magna Card Libertatum' and incomparably more significant. The "Law" of St. Sava is not paying attention anywhere. What's interesting about St. Sava's Law? This is where the representative, the Protector of the Citizens, came out. When he spoke of the Ombudsman, he said that for the first time in Serbia, in the 21st century, the Ombudsman, the Citizens' Protector, is being introduced. Dear gentlemen, St. Sava has just "law" predicted a certain number of priests who were in charge of taking care of the poor, of socially endangered citizens and defending them from the will of the wealthy and the powerful, meaning, in the 13th century. Not to mention the bill of Stefan Dushan, which contained elements of constitutionality. As you know, he obliges judges to judge by law, not in fear of the Emperor. This is what you abolished by the Judges' Act, when you re-elected the judges and abolished the constitutional principle of continuity of the judge's office. You speak and pretend to be a pro-Western government. The question arises – do you even know who the most successful Serb in Western history is? Of course you don't. This is Michael Pupin, founder of the National Committee for Aeronautics of the United States, who later grew up in NASA, a famous American space agency. He invented self-induction coils that enabled telephone traffic, communication between airships in flight. The introduction of his patents into Europe, via the Simens, was called the Pupinization of Europe. It is interesting that Mihajlo Pupin also talked about Serbian KiM in American magazines. In 1913, he wrote about the liberation of Kosovo and Metohija -- this is the brightest Vidovdan of Kosovo, so to speak, a whole series of 525 years; every Serb who has experienced this glory has experienced the most glorious day in the Serbian historian and should thank God for creating it in the most glorious era since the beginning of Serbia. He also wrote in the Independent, and in BiH, about the murder of Franz Ferdinand. He took in the defense of Gabriel Principe. He cited the team on July 1914 at Independent: "This tragic scene is the last act of drama that began in 1908, when Austria aneceded BiH, insolently defiing the Berlin Congress's decision. A great and long struggle followed, but finally, beautiful Bosnia and Herzegovina's pampered ones fell with the victim. The blood was cast from many wounds, which were inflicted on the merciless claws of the two-headed black eagle of the Austrian Empire. The heroic struggle by Serbs from Serbia, Montenegro and Herzegovina, from 1875 to 1878, was crowned by victory and end. They fought for the unification and liberation of Serbs from Serbia in the Balkans and the Easter of the 14th-century Serbian Emperor Stefan Dusan Dushan. The battle was won, but the crown did not rise. Bosnia and Herzegovina, its two most precious pearls, has been kidnapped by Prince Bismarck and the German Count Andras, the Austro-Hungarian. ". To remind you, Mihajlo Pupin was also friends with five American presidents, including Woodroom Wilson, and Teodor Roosevelt, sending a letter to the Serbian Committee in Chicago in 1917, Teodor Roosevelt was once the President of the United States and the head of the Republican Party, supported the creation of a great Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14871	There are two minutes left for the SRS parliamentary group. Mr. Milan Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we adopted the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the SRS pointed to a series of failures, he said, to his amendments, that such a law does not correspond to the reality and time in which we live. Then you called on the Bologna Declaration, then there was a story about how education and education would be improved, but unfortunately, you saw, after three years we come back to the same. Namely, the National Educational Council, which was elected then, was almost a year away from being established, had nothing, had no president, and later, when it was established, had no good co-operation with the Ministry of Education. Nearly 90 proposals from the National Education Council are not accepted at the Ministry of Education. For what? Because even then, we pointed out that there are certain sectors in the Ministry of Education, departments dealing with this particular problem that the National Educational Council is dealing with. Then we said this was just a double of business and something costing citizens of Serbia, if it's already being financed somewhere and there is currently at the Ministry of Education. With the shifts of people and those who are named here, we Members of the People are not familiar because we see that the President of the National Education Council is being changed because of an unaccepted report. We don't know what the reason is, but I know that, for example, Professor Dr. Mihajlo Đurić is a man of authority and meant in this National Educational Council. You'll have to bring the end, please. Today you are also talking about some shifts, where you say he received salaries at the Ministry of Education and the National Educational Council... (President: MP, will you finish? Finish your sentence. I'm done. Just to let you know publicly that I have information that this compensation to members of the National Educational Council is 40,000 dinars... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14873	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups and anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint single search on the motions for decisions on the resolution of members of the National Educational Council, the Assembly List of Candidates for members of the National Educational Council and the Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the National Education Council. I would like to inform you that in the day of the vote, the National Assembly will decide on the motions for decisions and execute the selection of members of the National Educational Council from the Assembly List of Candidates. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSION OF THE LAW ON THE MEĐUNAL LAW IN CRIVIC THINGS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Milorad Buha, Milan Avramović, Slobodan Vuković, Milan Škrbić, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Vladan Batić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Nikola Žutić, Ljubisa Petković, Jovan Palalić, Momar Marković, Marina Tomanić, Vladan Jeremić, Dragan Aćimović, Dragan Živković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milovan Radovan Radovanović, Nataša Jovanović, Sulejman Spaho, Slađan Mijavić, Nikola Sjavić, Ognjen Mihajlović, Žajlić, Jadrankaljko Vuković, Jadranka Krk, Jadranka Pović, Mirko Pović, Milić, Mirko Pović, Mirić, Mirović, Mirović, Miljan Žović, Miljan Žović, Žović, Miljan Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žalić, Žović, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Ž. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee. You also received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, before opening a search, I would like to remind you of Article 143, i.e. to read it to you: "The search in particular is carried out by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and the amendments proposed by the introduction of new provisions, with the total time for the search in particular for parliamentary groups being the same as the total time for the principled examination of the draft law, i.e. for a joint review of several draft laws for parliamentary groups. The total time of the search in particular for the parliamentary groups is allocated to the parliamentary groups by a proportion of the number of MPs of that parliamentary group. Presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, have an additional time of 15 minutes for a joint search for the parliamentary group, which does not count at the total time for the search in particular for the parliamentary groups. Each applicant of the amendment shall have the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular cannot be longer than 10 hours. If a single amendment has been submitted jointly by several MPs, the right to state this amendment on behalf of the applicants shall have only one of the Members of Parliament signed, for up to two minutes. If several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical, they will be deemed to be the same amendment that has submitted several Members of Parliament together and the provision laid down in Article 5 of this Article will apply. The legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the fact that the total duration of the search in particular cannot be longer than three hours. National MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement shall decide not more than three participants in the search in particular, who have the right to speak only once, up to five minutes. Unless mutual agreement is reached, the right to speak within one to five minutes has three MPs who first apply for the word. "Mr Aligrudić, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14874	According to Article 27, and in relation to Article 143, President, we are able to read the Rules of Procedure. It was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", which is comprehensive and beautifully written in it – Article 143 of which you spoke. However, what remains unclear is the application of a member on your part, as President of Parliament, and I ask you to clarify that, in order to know whether or not we are entering a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, as I've heard from you, and I haven't heard from you, and by reading this article, I couldn't conclude, is there a unique joint search in detail on the first three points of the agenda? If it doesn't exist, it would be just fine, because there's no basis for such a thing. The basis for a common principled search is regulated by Article 142. Article 143 discusses the total time for the search and at the end of that position, as you have read, the total time stands for the principled examination of the bill, i.e. for a joint principled search of several draft laws for parliamentary groups. This does not imply at all that it is the merger of agenda points in the individual search, nor did anyone bring them together, nor did the Assembly decide on it. If you wanted to, then, as a majority, you had to adopt the Rules of Procedure of Amendments of Rule 142 and say that at the same time it decided to merge dots and in principle search, and in search of particulars. Since that was not the case, I want to clarify one thing – does the DSS's First Point Group have 25 minutes to discuss, yes or no?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14875	By the combined points, there's time. You have the answer in the first position of Article 143, which is why I read it. Therefore, "the search in particular is carried out by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and the amendments proposing the introduction of new provisions, with the total time to search in particular for parliamentary groups being the same as the total time for the principled examination of the draft law, i.e. for a joint principled review of several draft laws for parliamentary groups. "The first position was given the answer, and professional services also confirm. Your total time is this time you said you had. For the dots. You don't have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14876	This is about a violation of Article 143, Section 1, and I'm going to explain to you right now what this is all about. You just did it with this interpretation. Of course, we can't oppose that, we'll decide in the voting day, there's no way to confront you, physically we can't, and there's no point. The injury consists of the following – if it is true that the debate in particular, as you said we would continue to work on this principle, is not clear why we are first discussing point 1. If the debate is combined in particular, then it is discussed in the same way as the joined points in principle. Give us point one, take a break, give us material for points 1, 2 and 3, let us decide which amendment we're going to talk about and which one we're going to answer for. There's really no point in giving us the first point of one, dividing those three points into special searches, and then giving us time in three. I think it was a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, even by the interpretation of how you brought it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14877	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're working on the agenda, and we'll make a statement in the voting day. Mr. Palalic and Mr. Krasic advertised the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14878	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of Article 27, and in relation to Article 43. In fact, you have now told us, in an explanation of this breach of the Rules of Procedure, that in particular the debate on the first three points is united. I am now asking you -- how long does the DSS Parliamentary Group have time to debate when it comes to an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, the total time in particular? So is it time for each point, in particular, in this case – for the Bill on Legal Assistance in Criminal and Legal Matters, is it 15 minutes, 25 minutes or does it apply to all three points? Please, if you're interpreting it as a ratio to all three points, how much time do we have for the first point?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14879	Mr. Palalic, you've finished the time you've been given at your disposal. You ask again what Mr Aligrudic asked as a question. You have 25 minutes and 12 seconds and 15 minutes, Mr. President of the Parliamentary Group for all three, or for a joint discussion. We explained that, we read the article that regulates it. Please, I warn you that you have asked again something that has already been asked what you have no right to do. That's how you hurt the Rules of Procedure. You can't do the same thing twice. Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14880	I refer to members, first of all, 27 and 100. Rules of Procedure and Rule 143. Please, you've given one interpretation from Article 143 that doesn't stand. In the first attitude, I know you've read, but you can't read, time is defined. In the history of parliamentaryism, the debate did not come together in detail by three laws. Law No 1 – the time shall be determined in accordance with Article 143 and the debate shall go as stated. You want three laws to outsource for a total period of ten hours, while forgetting one thing – this Rules of Procedure guaranteeed the right of each amendment to come out and explain its amendment for up to two minutes. Please, within ten hours, it's about 300 amendments. If someone has submitted an amendment to the third law, the last member, so there are 325 amendments in that collection, he will not be able to give his right to explain, because of your interpretation. You cut it short, there's nowhere else to cut it. This is a difficult violation not only of the Rules of Procedure, you did it on purpose to prevent a public word, to prevent criticism, to prevent argumentation and evidence from being made, so that citizens can see where you're going. Here, now, citizens, see what the amendments to the Rules of Procedure are -- to introduce dictatorship, parliamentary dictatorship, that there must be no talk here. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14881	It was the application of the Rules of Procedure and it was necessary to prepare for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure in order to participate in the work of quality. Here, on a new basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14882	The basis consists of a violation of Article 27, i.e. Your way of presidencies, in relation to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Article 104 provides for something aimed at protecting the dignity of the National Assembly. If the MPs ask you to hold a session within the meaning of Article 27, in a cultural, dignified manner, appropriate, or committed to the respect of the Rules of Procedure, this means that you must explain the institutes and mechanisms by which the Rules of Procedure is applied and respected in the National Assembly. So, if you've been asked, in your objection to breaching the Rules of Procedure, to tell us exactly how time is deployed according to the first three points, you haven't done it on the express request of the MPs. Then you explained to them, my predecessor, Mr. Palalic, that he had asked the same question twice. You know, it doesn't make sense. Do you think we're little children? The man asked you very simply how much time we have for the first point. You're the president of this House, you're required to supply us with that information, or you want us to turn into accountants, mathematicians, to count on what minutes and seconds that first point is. You're wrong. If the debate is connected, it must be connected to all the first three points.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14883	You've practically asked the same question again. I'm warning you, you don't have a word, I'll give you a sanction. You can't go on the same subject more times. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, I point to the violation of Members 104 and members 143. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The MPs of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, held at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, which discussed the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the President of the Administrative Committee claimed that the ruling coalition would be the provision of Article 143(4). Rules of Procedure to interpret so that the time of two minutes that each applicant of the amendment does not enter into the total time for discussion in particular. We have pointed out at a session of the Administrative Committee that, if the opposite position is taken, some applicants of the amendment, due to lack of time, will be unable to defend their amendments. Then, in one chaos created in the Administrative Committee, because the ruling coalition has submitted amendments to its own proposal for a decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure, the conflicting amendments, Mr Konstantinovic said: "Gentlemen from the opposition, do not worry, I guarantee you," you can check it in a stenogram that was led at the session of the Administrative Committee, "don't worry, the authorities will interpret this provision of Article 143 so that the time that each applicant has, for two minutes, to defend his amendment does not go into total time for discussion in detail". You're saying otherwise now. That means, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, I understand very well, the thing is that you cheat on the MPs; you have one claim, I don't mean you personally, therefore, the chairman of the Administrative Committee has one claimed at the session of the Administrative Committee, on behalf of the ruling coalition in this National Assembly... (President: Time. I warn you not to cheat, but to explain and tell the truth. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry. Please, let me finish. (President: I warn you, please. Thank you. Let me finish. (President: You can't finish, it's past time.) You didn't let me finish. (President: Please, I can't give you any longer than the time is predicted. Yes, but before two minutes went by, you came into my word and I couldn't finish. It is that the ruling coalition has deceived MPs in the National Assembly. They claimed that this provision of Article 143 would be interpreted in one way, and you are now interpreting it in another way entirely. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14885	Please, the time of two minutes for amendments doesn't go into this weather, but it can't be longer than ten hours, that's the point. Please, that's what's been said and I repeat it now and again. He has the word Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14886	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Madam President, I protest your way of treating the head of a parliamentary group in Serbia, because I think it is unacceptable. I want to point out that there are no stupid questions, there are only stupid answers. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group wants to know, taxingly, whether or not the authorised representative of our parliamentary group has 15 minutes, or whether that time has been divided three times in five minutes. Do the five MPs, who will speak within their 25 minutes, have to share their exposure for five minutes, so that everyone can speak, and these five minutes to share for a minute and 35 seconds, to fulfill it? Why didn't you give us all three points of the agenda, if you've brought it together, not just international legal aid, but all the other points you've predicted to do? That's absolutely a violation of Article 143. The Rules of Procedure and we won't let that happen in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14887	Mr. Petkovic, 15 minutes is for a representative or one who represents a parliamentary group and can share them however he wants. So he can talk all 15 minutes, or three times five -- he decides for himself. That's not precise, and your total time in a united debate is, as I've already said, 25 minutes and 12 seconds. The second time I've explained it. We move on to Article 1. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word Mr. Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters and pointed to the main position of the SRS in relation to this law. The Serbian Radical Party considers it unacceptable, will not go into a partial definition of certain concepts, above all, in the area of international legal aid, which is very broad, comprehensive and, as such, requires unification, codification or, as the minister of justice said, harmonisation of legal rules. You did the opposite of what you stated in the light of the bill and what the minister of justice said about this speaker. You made the most devastating solution because of one law, which is the Code of Criminal Procedure, you singled out a single continent and put it into a special law. The SRS considers it unacceptable to go to such a partial definition of this area and that the legislator had, in accordance with the rules already laid down, what was defined by the Code of Criminal Procedure, through the innovation of legal provisions, to insert everything that is an integral part of the international conventions – the European Union Convention, the UN Convention, the agreements reached in this area and all practices, judicial and other practices relating to the area of international legal assistance. In this way, you're fragmenting the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, because now you're going to have to define...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14889	Time, Mr. Buha. Thank you. I would just like to inform you that I invited Mr. Zlatko Petrovic, adviser to Ms. Malovic, to attend the session. I welcome him and Mrs. Secretary. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with this shameful Rules of Procedure and an even more embarrassing member of 143, I need two minutes to explain why I wanted to change and improve the proposal for this law – which is physically inconclusive. This is proof of how much the Republic Assembly works and how much it cares about democracy and freedom of speech. I'll focus again on the amendment itself. So this bill is a condition for the white Schengen list and one of the conditions that exists in a set of laws that the Serbian Parliament must adopt. As such, it does not give any new legal regulation or innovation. All the members mentioned in this law are, in fact, known members of the Criminal Procedure Act and in international and bilateral contracts adopted by the Republic Parliament in accordance with the Constitution. Any contract with another state, which we adopt, must not come out of the legal system. This law goes beyond the legal system. He's talking, like, something new, and that's how he's gonna finance international legal aid. I asked to delete Article 2, for one simple reason. Article 2 says, "International legal aid covers the extradition of the defendant or convicted." I remind you that Miladin Kovacevic has been convicted and sentenced in one country, and that you regulate by this law who will pay for you handing him over to America, or legalizing what you are doing; on the other hand, you are using a different picture. It is this law. Second, taking over and giving in to criminal prosecution. There is a wide field open for you – you can allow any service in your country to do whatever it wants. Then, the execution of a criminal verdict and other forms of international legal aid. It doesn't say what other forms are, but they can cost us a lot. I'm running out of time, I'm sorry, Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14891	Thank you. You've made yourself perfectly clear. Anyone else want a word? On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. You wanted a word in the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14892	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the ruling coalition is not only not enough that it has maximumly reduced the rights of the opposition, but also this reduced rights does not respect. So, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, member of 143, says, and I ask you not to count on this time: "The particulars search is carried out by the members to whom the amendments are submitted and the amendments proposing the introduction of new provisions, with the total time for the search in particular for parliamentary groups being the same as the total time for the principled review of the draft law, i.e. for a joint principled review of several draft laws for parliamentary groups". Mr. Milorad Buha explained his amendment in, for two minutes. Instead of asking if anyone else is answering for a word, you are going straight to the second amendment. How do we use the time we have as a parliamentary group for discussion in detail when you're not even asking if anyone else is answering for a word? Every MP, even if he has not submitted the amendment, has the right to discuss his colleague's amendment. How can we argue, how can we spend the reduced time you've given us anyway, if you don't give the word to the MPs? You cross, you only give word to the applicants of the amendment. So, when the amendment is concluded by the applicant, you are required to open the debate and ask if anyone else is answering for a word, not to move from amendment to amendment. We simply cannot use the reduced rights that we have under Article 143. Other MPs, who have not submitted the amendment, have the right to discuss amendments submitted by other MPs. So, make it possible to discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14893	Thank you. You're quite correctly interpreting the Rules of Procedure. I ask if anyone wants a word and I give a word to everyone who reports on the amendment, with two minutes spoken by the amendment applicant not coming in at the time of that parliamentary group, and everything else coming in. Mr. Buha, theoretically, could continue within time, but not explain the amendment. If we don't understand each other, now I'm asking, is anyone answering for the amendment to Article 2 submitted by Mr Avramovic? (No) Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Apart from the applicants, is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) Of course you have the right, within the time given to you, to participate. I repeat, and I read that when I read Article 143. I think you understand me very well, I understand you perfectly. Amendment bearer, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14894	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, I rarely go out, but you see the situation in the Assembly. Although I've only been out a few times in six months, I'm now forced to explain the amendment in two minutes, and I'm going to try that, although it's very difficult. On the basis of Article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the consolidated text, I submit an amendment to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. I suggest that this article be deleted, and I'll explain it like this. The legislator chose the wrong path in legal regulation, opting for partial regulation of such extensive legal matter. Political pressures suffered by the current government by its mentors from the West, in the first place, the "Haski Process", the "Kovačević case" and the like, cannot be a valid basis for justifying the failures that appear to be legal. The SRS considers it necessary to implement the innovation and harmonisation of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, the provisions of the law in the field of justice, international and bilateral agreements, as well as other legal regulations in this area, and therefore propose to delete this member. You think about whether in this congregation it takes us all to get out here in a hurry, to explain this broad matter in 50 seconds, to deny us the right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14895	I thank you, Mr. Vukovic, it's been two minutes, but if you want, you can take part further, within the time available to your parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14896	I'll be real quick. Article 27 – How to conduct the session. When you hold a session, that smile you have on your face, which you tell us because you see that people, who are opposition representatives of citizens in this House, are upset by the way you conduct the session, are extremely disturbing and extremely offensive. Please take it off your face, I think that's how you violate Article 104 and Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14897	Your competence to determine and evaluate a mime expression is out of the question and I think this is how you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, there's nothing in my face that's calculated to irritate anyone. I think the problem is interpretation, not reality. The word is Mr. Jojic, as an authorised representative. You have 15 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14898	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as regards the amendments submitted by the SRS, are based on constitutional solutions and constitutional principles, because they are in line, above all, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, the amendments of the SRS are such as to represent, first of all, the constitutional category and therefore the SRS has proposed that all members of the proposed law on international legal aid be deleted in criminal matters. When it comes to Article 3(2), the SRS and I believe that it is not necessary to allow international legal assistance when it comes to the procedure initiated before the authorities of the administration, because this would be contrary to the principle of legality. The question is, would it be criminal matters at all then? So, when it comes to Article 3, the Serbian Radicals and the People's MP who tabled the amendment to this article remain with the contents of this amendment, with the fact that, in particular, the administrative authorities should not be allowed to act contrary to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because, in particular, the administrative authorities are not competent to resolve on these issues, to decide, nor to make a profit, because in that case confusion would occur in the application of the legal norm, both from the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia and from the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, the SRS considers that this law should not have been passed. It does not improve legal regulation, nor regulates the legal order of the Republic of Serbia in a better way than was regulated earlier. When it comes to this member, I propose that this proposal be adopted by our MP and that this law is not found in the procedure, given that there are numerous shortcomings and that it is not suitable for application, because it is contrary to a number of provisions, above all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I will report for the following amendments, for the time being.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14899	National MP Petar Jojic, as an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group, has 12 minutes left to use at whatever time he wants. Does anyone else want a word in the discussion of details, amendment to Article 3? (No) National MP Milan Škrbic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? Yes, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14900	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters. Mr. Petar Jojic is just a moment ago, and he will probably explain more in detail what this law needs to be withdrawn for and why it should not come to its application. I have suggested that Article 4 be deleted, for several reasons, already mentioned, and I will repeat the most important ones. International legal aid in criminal matters is regulated by the provisions of Chapter 32 of the Code on Criminal Procedure – the procedure for providing international legal assistance, the enforcement of international contracts in criminal matters, the procedure for issuing accused and convicted persons, and the provisions of ratified and confirmed international and bilateral contracts, which have become part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. International legal aid, in addition to criminal justice, includes foreign affairs, internal affairs, state administrations and the like. If we consider this to be a broad legal matter, the legislator chose, according to the SRS, the wrong path in legal regulation, opting for a partial solution. We have cited the political pressures that the current government suffers, and we know from whom, by the mentors who say that laws will be written, and we are witnesses and that many laws are passed, knowing in advance, and power and opposition, that it will not be possible to apply them, but only because of this white Schengen visa we have to adopt laws at all costs. The introduction of processes such as the Hague processes, the Kovacevic case and so on... Since the two minutes are up, I would recommend you read the book of Carla del Ponte.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14901	It's been two minutes. National MP Petar Jojic has a word. Will you please tell me if you are reporting as an authorised representative or will you be using the time available to the Parliamentary Group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14902	The main thing to say here is that the procedure for providing international legal assistance in criminal matters is, above all, regulated under the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the provisions of Chapters 32 and 33. So this was completely unnecessary, because such a solution is possible, it's legitimate, but it doesn't accomplish anything. It is about ordinary, normative cosmetics, which is not in the spirit of the tradition of Serbian legislation and Serbian justice. It's not even a new legal solution, because most of the matter of this law that is proposed is regulated in the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14903	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Do any of the Members of the People want a word? I ask the MPs not to earn, I think the application of the Rules of Procedure is very clear, the word has an amendment. The chairman will ask if any of the other MPs want a word, as all MPs, during the debate in particular, have reserved time for discussion, as well as presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14904	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters. The amendment is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and therefore the SRS has proposed that all members of this law be deleted. The Serbian Radical Party also finds the law unacceptable and inadmissible and that the partial definition of the area is not good. Article 5 refers to the applicant, i.e. to a request for international legal assistance. Like everyone in the SRS, I suggested that it be deleted, and in my explanation, I stated that the term "saul" is extremely humiliating and shows service, obedience, service of the ruling coalition to foreign mentors, advocates of such a bad and unnecessary law. The political pressures suffered by Prof. Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, by the effort of the mentor of the process, are impossible for a human being. When the word is taken from Professor Vojislav Seselj, to silence the Serbian people, the world's lie can be unhindered by speaking and confirming the distorted image. Therefore, the SRS considers it necessary to implement the innovation and harmonisation of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, the same to be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14905	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Petar Jojic wants a word. I ask the MPs who earn, commenting on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to read the provision of the obligation to treat one another during the session of the National Assembly. The time reserved for the applicant for the amendment is two minutes and the application of the Rules of Procedure means that the MP receiving the word speaks for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14906	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as far as the applicant is concerned, which concerns the request of a state asking for certain actions and providing appropriate assistance, it is not regulated in accordance with the Constitution. First of all, these pleas can be misused, someone may request that any citizen be extradited, whether it be alleged temporary detention, or departure, to make a statement abroad. However, this application does not contain all the necessary information and no one guarantees which is the competent state authority that will determine who sent the plea to a coma and who is the authority that needs to act specifically on the request. That is why the SRS has also proposed to delete this Article 5, which the colleague has submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14907	On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14908	This is a major problem that arises in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, because this is a short time for MPs to explain two sentences. That is why it was necessary for this assembly and the president of the Assembly to deliver data from comparative rights to the MPs – how many MPs in EU countries have the right to talk about certain amendments. It's necessary to do that. I asked for this, however, they did not deliver, and there is a possibility that, within the EU, we, in some ways, can compare and see whether or not basic human rights are being violated here, whether or not the Constitution is being respected, whether the UN Charter is being respected, whether resolutions and other provisions of international law are being respected. That is why, Madam Vice-President, it would be necessary to enable and give the MPs an opportunity to make sure that we are the only ones here who have the right to speak for two minutes, and the other EU MPs in both the Angolan countries have the right for up to half an hour. I propose that this amendment be adopted to Article 6 which a colleague has submitted, because it does not contain any other provision that would be in line with this proposal, except to delete, there is no other option.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14909	On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14910	The amendment submitted by Mr Batic, in any case, suggests a violation of the constitution, speaks of the need to change this standard, that the amendment should be adopted because it improves the text of the law. Therefore, on behalf of the SRS, I propose that all amendments tabled by the MPs, which relate to erasing or modifying and improving any text, be accepted. The law should be put back to work, as it will not do Serbia any good, and all provisions are regulated in the CAP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14911	On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Petar Jojic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14912	As far as the provisions of Article 7, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament are concerned, it is not precise in this provision whether the minister in charge of the judiciary decides or just gives an opinion, because giving an opinion is one thing. Opinions don't have to be binding on anyone. This second moment, when it is said that the minister in charge decides, it is a decision. When it is said - the minister gives an opinion, it is not binding on anyone. Therefore, I believe that the amendment submitted by a colleague is in place and I suggest that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14913	As an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group, you have six minutes and 40 seconds at your disposal, and the total time for the Parliamentary Group is 68 minutes. National MP Petar Jojic says – it was about the amendment. You, as president or authorised representative of the parliamentary group, have a total of 15 minutes to discuss in particular, in case it is a single law, or in case it is a discussion in particular, and after a decision on a joint principled review of several laws. The total time for each president or representative of an authorised parliamentary group is 15 minutes. Your parliamentary group, like any other, has a proportional time as well as in a joint principled search, that is, if we have a principled search on only one law. In the case of the SRS, it's 68 minutes. It's your choice when and in what way you'll schedule that time. Every applicant of the amendment has two minutes. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the best evidence of the chaos of the ruling coalition that has a problem interpreting the Rules of Procedure itself. Mrs. Komic, Article 143 has been injured. Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14915	People's MP, by carefully reading the Rules of Procedure, you will see that you do not have the right to repeat a multiple indication of the same injury. You've already listed Article 143. Thank you. On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic. Excuse me, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14916	Injury of article 27 in the way you handle the session. You're repeating the same mistake you've been making weeks behind us. It doesn't matter what the Rules of Procedure has changed. I respect the changes of the Rules of Procedure, although I do not agree with them so easily, it is not worth it, I cannot oppose what you, as most people, have decided. It is not right that if a person is called upon to hurt a certain member, just because someone has previously called for an injury to that same member, you react without even listening to the beginning of the argument, so that you can determine whether an injury to Article 143 is called for by Article 143, which was referred to, or to another article of that Article 143, and you know that there are many more attitudes there. Therefore, I think it is fair that at least you listen to the beginning of the argument of the MP before you conclude that man appears on the same basis. I don't think that's fair, and it's not even in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14917	Thanks for the suggestion. It's perfectly in line with the Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to read carefully Article 100 which makes it very clear in its provisions what basis it can be given if it is to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as well as for the chairman, or the chair of the Rules of Procedure's rules of procedure. On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Does anyone else want a word besides the amendment bearer? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14918	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected colleagues, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 of the proposed law on international legal aid in criminal matters. The SRS considers it a completely wrongly formulated assumption that if there is no data on reciprocity, it is assumed that reciprocity exists. This is particularly so in the position of Article 2. Such a formulation is not in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, as international legal aid would then be provided even when it is not necessary. It might have something to do with high costs. This assumption or should be completely omitted, given that it is difficult to imagine the case that there is no data on the existence or absence of reciprocity, or that it should be fully formulated the opposite, and Article 8(2) should read as follows: 'If there is no data on reciprocity, there is no assumption that there is no reciprocity until the opposite is established, in accordance with Article 1, paragraph 2, or until the State of prayer has submitted evidence of the existence of reciprocity'. For these reasons, on behalf of the SRS, I suggest that Article 8 be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14919	The word has been issued by MP Petar Jojic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14920	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, this is the only law that has been proposed in this House and that is in conflict with the Constitution and the regulated legal system of the Republic of Serbia. How can someone suggest and act tomorrow and, if there's no reciprocity, assume he has it? I don't understand this. I am informing the professional public, the minister is a lawyer, there are lawyers, there are lawyers, and here are lawyers Krasic, Martinovic, so there is Ratkovic, there are a number of lawyers and lawyers who are going to wonder if it is possible to hand someone over to a foreign state tomorrow, and there are no guarantees and there is no reciprocity, but it is assumed! That in our law can't live.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14921	On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word for breach of the Rules of Procedure is sought by MP Aleksandar Martinovic and obtained by article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of Article 100(4) has been injured. The Rules of Procedure - the MP is obliged to state which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, and to explain what the infringement is, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. Mrs. Comic, I tried to explain, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, why I consider him to be a injured member of 143. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. This Article 143 is complex, consisting of several views. I wanted to point to the injury of another attitude, not the attitude I've already pointed out. I'm really giving you a well-intentioned suggestion, I don't see any reason to raise tension. Mr. Petar Jojic, when it comes to the word, you must ask if it appears as a national MP, as well as any other, or as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, and not, whenever it comes to the word, you interpret that it appears as an authorised representative and shortens the time it has as an authorised representative to discuss details. He has two properties here, he's a folk MP, like all of us, but he's also an authorised representative. When it comes to the word, it can answer the word as a People's MP, like everyone else, and as an authorised representative. You always interpret, whenever a man answers his word, that he appears as an authorised representative and thus reduces the time he has, for 15 minutes, to participate in the discussion of details. That's what I was gonna say. There's no need to be angry. I deeply respect your European manners and your European practice in this assembly every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14923	Thank you. We share European manners. With insight into the stenogram, you will see that I, in my second report, asked whether he appeared as an authorised representative or as a member of the Parliament for the use of time, and he continued as an authorised representative. Given the stenogram, you can see that the first announcement was announced as an authorised representative and that I reminded him, because this is the first time we have applied the Rules of Procedure, that the time available to him is 15 minutes, so there is no violation of article 100. We return to the amendment submitted by MP Jovan Palalic, who has a word. Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14924	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, came forward as an applicant for the amendment, as an authorised representative and as an MP who uses the time of the parliamentary group, on all three grounds. As for the amendment to Article 8, it points to one very important thing concerning the issue of reciprocity. In the principle debate, I pointed out the fact that interrelationship, as a practical state of relations between the two states, is very important, not only because of the fact that reciprocity will be established in certain relations, but, to a large extent, as a question of the dignity of this country. We purposely, wanting to point out the situation relating to the very issue of the government's policy concerning reciprocity, indicated in our amendment that if there is no data on reciprocity, there is no assumption that reciprocity exists. We have cited an example where the state has proved to be one-sided in applying one contract, according to us, very harmful to this country, the SAA, without any reciprocity of the other Contracting Party, specifically, EU member. We have suffered concrete damage and, in the debate on the budget that was led here, we have shown that this damage, which in a direct, indirect manner, refers to 300m euros. Now again we show that will to unilaterally apply some decisions without having any information as to whether a country has acted in a similar way at the moment, i.e. Did she provide legal assistance? Reciprocity, as a matter of the dignity of this state, is very important and certainly must be established here, because it is impossible to obtain data whether such a case has appeared in a specific legal situation. This law, which was announced in the National Assembly as one in a set of laws that should lead Serbia to come to that famous white Schengen list, of course, has nothing to do with it. We have repeatedly said that the issue of Serbia's presence on the White Schengen list is a political issue, not a legal issue, not the fact that a series of laws are being adopted. This law is promoted as a law in the field of fighting crime. In this situation where the Serbian judiciary, completely, is v.d. condition, we have position v.d. President of the Supreme Court, V.D. Prosecutors, up to a serious noise within the judiciary, which followed the adoption of this set of laws in the area of justice, during the fall, where a series of changes in the judiciary are announced, the question arises – could such a judiciary bear the burden of fighting crime and corruption? This judiciary, which is frightened by unclear criteria that will refer to the choice of judges, the functioning of the new announced network of courts, technical equipment, certainly lacks power, has no capacity to bring up this fight against corruption, which has been mentioned recently as a priority. Let me remind you, in the exposé of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, she was in fifth place. It is obvious that, at a time when people are increasingly demanding justice, when they are increasingly demanding that the competent state authorities, applying the law, remove the numerous injustices that are taking place in society, in the context of the severe economic crisis and the absence of serious measures and policies of the Government for its repression, the fight against crime and corruption, will mostly be brought to the attention of the declarative commitment and to the level of the parole. It is certain that this law, repeatedly in the discussion, was not necessary, because a number of our rules in the area of criminal law, as well as the Convention that has been ratified in the National Assembly, are largely governed by this area. We must return the issue of mutuality to the measure that concerns the dignity of the state. We no longer want to apply decisions unilaterally to other countries, nor to enter into the legal aid procedure, if we do not know that the other state has not acted in any way, or we do not have that information. In addition, let us make our state authorities determine this and thus show to what extent we take care of how this country works. I'd like you to add to my presentation as an authorised representative, and what went into the time of our parliamentary group, so that we can schedule time in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14925	You have used two minutes as an applicant for the amendment and you have used three minutes as an authorised representative, since the order in which you have defined your notification has been read – I am using the time as the applicant for the amendment, as an authorised representative and as an MP who uses the time of his parliamentary group. Based on this order, and by measuring the time, I answer to you – you have used two minutes to explain the amendments you have submitted and three minutes, out of the 15 at your disposal, as an authorised representative of the DSS Group of Members. You have 12 minutes left and a total time of 25 minutes and 12 seconds, as the DSS Parliamentary Group. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Given your request for clarification, would you please tell me if you're using your time as an authorised representative? You have no right to amend, only the applicant of the amendment has the right to two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14926	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what would happen, God forbid they ask us to hand over one of the ministers? Would this law be here? He would not find himself, and the question is asked: should he?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14927	On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Momir Markovic. I ask that with a little more concentration, and it will be necessary and quiet, we monitor what happens in the O.R. during the discussion in particular. People's MP, I said - the amendment man wants a word, does anyone else want a word? My question referred to other MPs who have the right to participate in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14928	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, international legal aid implies, in addition to criminal and legal assistance, and assistance in the fields of foreign affairs, internal affairs, state administrations, etc. I don't see why the billmaker only narrowed this down to international criminal justice aid. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment requesting that article 9 be deleted. Namely, the Code of Criminal Procedure, chapters 32 and 33, regulated relations in the area of criminal and legal aid, so that this law is absolutely unnecessary, unsustainable, inapplicable and, in the end, is not an EU requirement to adopt such a law. The SRS considers it necessary to implement the innovation of the Criminal Code and the harmonisation of its provisions, i.e. the Code of Criminal Procedure and the harmonisation of its provisions with the Constitution. Bilateral agreements in the field of justice, international bilateral agreements and other legal regulations would absolutely satisfy the needs of regulation of this legal issue. Namely, from the Code of Criminal Procedure, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you from DOS, in any aggregate state since 2001, have adopted: 2001 – published in the "Official List" No. 70th and 68th of 2002 – in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 58, 2004 – No 85, 2005 – 115, 2007 No. 49. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14929	Two minutes, thank you. On Article 10, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The amendmentr wants a word. Do any of the Members of the People want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, given this inhumanity that has allowed the entire 120 seconds to explain the amendment, I would like to remind myself that the concept of the proposed law on providing international legal assistance to the SRS is unacceptable. Except for the strongest asset of the ruling majority, which is that this bill is part of the so-called law. Pro-European laws, the general impression is that he was, I may even say, unnecessary, because, as you have already heard from your colleagues, this matter is quite regulated by the provisions of ratified and confirmed international and bilateral contracts, which have become, or constitute, a segment of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, the amendment provided for the removal of Article 11. The proposal for a law relating to the cost of providing international legal assistance to the requested State, if this law is not otherwise prescribed. You will admit yourself that it is an illogical member, because the issue of costs in providing international legal assistance in criminal matters is already defined by law and European conventions, and we must bear in mind the fact that the global financial crisis is taking place, and the cost term itself is quite discriminatory. All in all, a rather serious topic, among other things, the extradition of the accused or convicted, as well as the takeover and prosecution of criminal prosecution, seems to me to have been tried to, under the cover of already known Eurointegration, come down to the legal farce, just like the work on the new Serbian Parliament's rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14931	Thank you. I'm setting a break from one hour to 15 hours. The afternoon work of the session continues with the debate in particular, with the amendment to Article 12, which was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Thank you. [[After break – at 3 p.m.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon, with discussion in particular. The amendment to Article 12 was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone else want a word from the MPs? National MP Petar Jojic. Time is available, as an authorised representative, for five minutes and 40 seconds, and the total time of the Parliamentary Group is 68 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters to which Article 12 is deleted. I'm explaining. International legal aid in criminal matters is regulated by the CAP, the provisions of Chapter 32 – the procedure for providing international legal assistance and the enforcement of international contracts in criminal matters, from Articles 530 to 538, and Chapter 33 – the procedure for issuing accused and convicted persons. International legal aid, in addition to criminal law, covers foreign affairs, internal affairs, state administrations, etc. Since the mentioned matter is covered by chapters 32 and 33. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which means that this article is superfluous and duplicated, something already covered by legal matter. This means that this legal project is not concise and precise, but has been built up to satisfy your Western mentors, not caring whether it is in line with the Constitution of Serbia, as the highest legal act. Not to mention legal aid in the field of foreign affairs, specifically, to help Hague convicts, whom you treat as if they are not our citizens. For all this, I suggest that this member be deleted because there is no legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14934	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Dragan Zivkov. Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 13 of this law. In order to make it easier to understand, Article 13, Article 13, allows the extradition of the defendant or convicted foreign state, for the conduct of criminal proceedings for which, according to the law of the Republic of Serbia and the law of the state of prayer, a prison of one year or a more severe sentence may be imposed. Second, for the execution of the criminal penalty imposed by the court of the State of Prayer for the offence referred to in point 1) of this position, for a period of at least four months. ''If the application refers to several criminal acts, some of which do not meet the conditions laid down in Article 1, extradition may also be permitted for these crimes. 'My amendment reads that this member of the law is deleted. The explanation is in the amendment. The legislator has chosen the wrong path in legal regulation, opting for partial regulation of such wide-ranging legal matter. Political pressures suffered by current authorities by their mentors, such as the 'Haski Process' or 'Kovačević' and so on, cannot be a valid basis for justifying the failures that appear to be legal. The SRS believes it is necessary to implement the innovation and harmonisation of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as it is evident that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be extradited to foreign states. I would also like to emphasise that the CAP, apart from the Constitution, should also be brought into line with the provisions of the law in the field of justice, international and bilateral agreements, as well as other legal regulations in this area, and therefore the removal of this article is proposed. I'd just like to say that two minutes to explain the amendment is not enough to get into the essence of matter. I believe that the chairman allowed himself to comment and did not deny himself the time, and the MPs were denied it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14936	Two minutes, thank you. The time available for applicants of the amendment is two minutes. There are no negotiations on the rules. So, two minutes is the time every MP has at his disposal, by applying the Rules of Procedure. As a legislative body, we require that the rules apply to all those for whom we make the laws, so the rules we make ourselves will apply. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14937	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Chairman, there is something that the legal norm must contain - a precise and clear definition, and cannot be defined something that is not the subject of the definition. You can look into the bill, i.e. in Article 13, Above Article 13 is the title – The subject of extradition. This is something new I have heard in my life, in my experience, in my long-standing legal profession, so that someone can say in the title of the norm – the subject of extradition. It's not the extradition of a bag of grain, it's not the extradition of any other object. A man is not an object, please, a man is a subject, a man is a face. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a serious remark to the motion that he put above article 13 – the subject of extradition; it is a person, not objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14938	The 14th amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14939	I'm not talking about something that happened an hour ago. I'm talking about something that happened a few minutes ago. I think you have a very bad interpretation and respect for the provision of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You find it appropriate to comment and, when the MP comes out for a pay phone, explain his amendment, you proceed as if he's advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know who gave you that right? If you want to say something against that amendment, please step forward, come to this pay phone, and say what you have against that amendment. You interrupted the ambassador, you turned off his microphone, he talked about the amendment, he didn't advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You find it appropriate to make your story go away, like we're on some TV show. I think it's good for the citizens to watch this transmission, to understand what's been achieved by this amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It came to pass that in the discussion of details no one knows what they're talking about. Can anyone understand what one of the MPs was talking about and what he could say in two minutes about a member of the law that regulates the extradition of our citizens, extradition, in general, of someone from here abroad? In this way, by this change, we have, in practice, received that debate in particular be in principle. What's the quality? Not at all. Only to make one series of tapes, to line up MPs as applicants of the amendments, in order, and as anyone comes, to fall immediately and drive away – that is the way, that is the bright way to Europe. It doesn't exist anywhere on the globe and probably some bones turn in the grave when they hear, if they hear, as far as their Democratic Party came.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14940	People's MP, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Zivkov asked why he was not allowed to complete his thought. It is chaired by the obligation to provide the necessary explanations and instructions necessary for work. I reminded the People's MP that every MP has two minutes at his disposal. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic tabled an amendment to Article 14. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14941	For lack of time, I will not be able to address you as it would be for the National Assembly. So, I'm going to go straight to the explanation of the amendments concerning the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters. I would like to say that, in addition to the basic provisions, the law discusses the forms of international legal aid, i.e. the extradition of the accused, or convicted, the takeover and the violation of criminal prosecution, the execution of a criminal verdict and the other forms of international legal aid. My amendment refers to Article 14 - the principle of speciality. Someone far smarter said that a smart man is enough for one minute to say something smart, but no one has said how long it takes each one of us to figure out what's said in one minute. Therefore, the SRS considers it necessary to implement the innovation and harmonisation of the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure and to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, the provisions of the law in the field of justice, international bilateral agreements, as well as other legal regulations in this area, and therefore proposes to delete this article, because we consider that this law, as it is done, in the light of the matter it regulates, is completely excessive in our legislation. International legal aid in criminal matters is regulated by the provisions of Chapter 22 – procedure for providing international legal assistance and enforcement of international contracts in criminal matters...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14942	Two minutes. Thank you, People's MPs. Does anyone else want a word, if not, of article 15? National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic. National MP Zoran Popovic throws – and Milovanovic? By looking at the stenogram, you'll see that I've read the amendment and I've asked if anyone wants a word. Since no one answered, we've moved on to the next amendment. So, National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a word. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14943	I'm asking for the expropriation of Article 16, for the reasons that this government's argument is unacceptable. The SRS's intensities are to convince you that this must be done by codifying and possibly modifying the Criminal Code. As my member speaks of assumptions about the extradition of one of our citizens, I will talk about one case whose epilogue, unfortunately, is tragic, given that today's three-year anniversary of the murder in The Hague cassamat of the former president of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is Slobodan Milosevic. Mr Milosevic was delivered to The Hague as the first political official, by your dossier authority, without law, against the Constitution and against the UN Charter, against which he was established, of course, with the CIA projection, which Mr Krasic spoke earlier years, and now turns out to be true – that the court was founded only to judge Serbs. Today, the total number of convicts of Serbian nationality, i.e. their prison sentences in the quasi court, have been over 900 years, i.e. 912.5 years, and the police, political and military summit ten days ago, for the heroic defense of our southern province, KIM, has been imposed 92 years in prison. You should ask yourself today, three years after the men's murder, which, in his latest book, was written by one of the prominent international rights fighters, Mr. John Laflin, whom we met today in Pogorevec, at the grave of Slobodan Milosevic. How do you think that, by law like this, with such, indeed, humiliating arguments of the government shield...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14944	Two minutes, thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14945	Please, Mrs. Komic, before I begin my presentation, if you'd be so kind as to explain to me how many minutes I have in mind for this amendment, since it is not the clearest member of 143. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14946	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 68 minutes. The way you'll use that time depends on the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14947	Is that for all three laws, or just for this one?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14948	The time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group, under Article 143, in the case of a joint search, is the same in particular and in principle. So, when we decided on a joint principle search, you had 68 minutes at your disposal, and now, when we started searching in particulars, and by the points of the agenda that were, by the Parliament's decision, in a joint search, you also have 68 minutes in total, and I am notifying you that I am now going to turn off the microphone, so I am going to turn it back on, because it is about giving instructions and notice and I have no right to waste your parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14949	I thank you, Mrs. Komic, for this really detailed clarification of the provisions of Article 143. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the amendment to Article 16, which was submitted by a distinguished colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, absolutely makes sense, especially in that context she mentioned, when she explained her amendment. Namely, the Government, in its explanation of why amendments to the SRS People's MPs should not be accepted, calls for the fact that the European Convention on mutually providing legal assistance in criminal matters was confirmed, published in the 2001 SRJ Official Journal, the European Convention on Extradition, also published in the 2001 SRJ Official Journal, and the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the 2001 Official Journal of the SRJ. All these three international documents were brought in, or completed before 2001. You are now saying, in Article 16, which is a presumption of extradition, i.e. in Article 16 point 1), you say – that the person whose extradition is required is not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. You are thus acknowledging that all these European conventions bound you both in 2001 and before that, so they committed you to the moment you delivered Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal, in June 2001, on Vidovdan, and then you kept it quiet. It now turns out that Slobodan Milosevic was delivered not only to the Serbian Constitution at the time, so the 1999 Constitution, you have not yet passed the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and here we now see from the government's explanation that you have been obliged by these three international conventions to not deliver Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal. You did it, though. On today, Slobodan Milosevic was killed in The Hague tribunal three years ago. It is a sad fact that people who, at least formally, belong to the party whose founder is Slobodan Milosevic, but the MPs of the SRS, are not allowed to speak of this because of respect for the historical fact that Slobodan Milosevic fought heroically in The Hague tribunal to prove that Serbia and the Serb people are not responsible for breaking the former Yugoslavia, but that they are responsible for the US, Germany, the Vatican and the European Community, today, after three years of the murder of Slobodan Milosevic, are talking about it. This is some, at least, small satisfaction to him and all those who respected his struggle in The Hague, that the delivery of Slobodan Milosevic in 2001 could not be done, as the Constitution of Serbia and these international conventions to which you are today called as an explanation of why this law on international legal aid in criminal matters should be passed. In order not to waste my time on my colleagues from the SRS, I will finish, and, Mrs Comic, I ask you to thank Boris Tadic on our behalf for allowing us to remain silent in Parliament instead of speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14950	Anyone else want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when a question of legal norm is asked, and it looks at the bill, then you will see that we do not fit international legal standards at all. What's a legal norm? Legal norm is a rule of human behavior, and we have a legal standard of conjecture for extradition. Is this a legal code that fits international law? Not at all. Secondly, is the legal norm subject to extradition? No, because legal norm, first of all, needs to talk about a specific case, and when it comes to this law, it's a rule of human behavior. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14952	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an amendment bearer, MP Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14953	Mrs. Komic, I will try to explain in these two minutes my attitude towards this amendment, if possible, and the only thing living on this planet that can do something useful and constructive in two minutes is a rabbit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. The draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters should be deleted. The draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters had three solutions to regulate these areas. The first is – to install existing matter into the existing Code of Criminal Procedure. Second, propose a codified law on international legal aid that would cover all forms of legal assistance in the area of foreign and domestic affairs, as well as customs affairs. The third is this law you proposed and you chose the worst way possible. Therefore, the SRS considers that this area must not be removed from its unique continent, and this is the Code of Criminal Procedure. By normising these matters by special law, you must now approach law-making for every area in which international legal aid is being carried out. So, with legal and technical regulation, we get dozens of legal regulations that are incomplete and unclear. That's why the SRS won't vote for this bill. Mrs. Komic, I too have received the characteristics of the rabbit, although for 60 years I have been trying to get rid of these characteristics.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14954	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14955	It's really hard to defend some of the amendments that some people can depend on years of life in some prisons, some of the cadets. I'm more than confused with this environment, but I'll try. On Article 18, I have submitted an amendment, which reads that the entire article 18 is deleted. The SRS considers it necessary to implement the innovation and harmonisation of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, the provisions of the law in the field of justice, international and bilateral agreements, as well as other legal regulations in this area, and is therefore proposed to delete this member. Since it's very difficult for me to continue to explain in this environment, because it won't look like anything other than a race with time, I can just say and tell one of our colleagues – Nenad, come back, you don't know what you're missing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14956	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14957	Respected, international legal aid in criminal matters is regulated by the provisions of Chapter 32 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which means, in fact, the procedure for providing international legal assistance and the enforcement of international contracts in criminal and legal matters, also, Chapter 33, which is the procedure for issuing accused and convicted persons, as well as the provisions of ratified and certified international and bilateral contracts that have become part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. International legal aid, in addition to criminal justice, includes foreign affairs, internal affairs, state administrations and the like. The legislator has chosen the wrong path in legal regulation, opting for partial regulation of such wide-ranging legal matter. Political pressures suffered by the current authority by its mentors, particularly regarding the Hague tribunal, and then the Kovacevic case and many such, cannot be a valid basis for justify the failures that appear to be legal. I was able to read this in about a minute and seven seconds, if I'm not mistaken, and I doubt any of the respected viewers of the Serbian people understood me. We need a lot more time than you're letting us do with our new rules of procedure, to explain it to the people. I'll try to put everything in two sentences so the people understand. The essence of these amendments is to make laws that are necessary for this Serbia, which are adapted to our people, our mentality, our life, our social opportunities, everything that makes us citizens of Serbia, not to prescribe EU laws. We prescribe them, in some abnormal race over time, to get into that European Union as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14958	It's been two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment MP Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14959	Dear Mrs Comic, I submit an amendment before the SRS to Article 21, with a proposal to delete it. As the previous speaker, my colleague Ognjen Mihajlovic said, the legislator chose the wrong path in legal regulation, opting for partial regulation of such broad matter. The SRS considers it necessary to implement the innovation and harmonisation of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, the provisions of the law in the field of justice, international and bilateral agreements, as well as other legal regulations in this area, and therefore propose to delete this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14960	Anyone else want a word? On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, may I speak with you before I move on to an explanation, and it is only about announcing the possibility of using the time of the Parliament's group? Is it possible? Can I continue after two minutes, within the time of the Parliament Group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14962	Of course, just announce, so you're not interrupted in two minutes, or you can say in a second minute, when I inform you that two minutes have passed, that you're also using the time of your parliamentary group. Now I'm going to turn off the microphone, since I've been using the time that's reserved for you and getting it back to the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14963	fellow MPs, I have no ambition to determine now what minimum time it is necessary to explain one amendment, but my intention is to show that it is not possible in two minutes, all within the time available to me. I'm afraid we've come to a situation where we're working on the amendments as an "accort." Some probably know what it means, it means to do something quickly, to do what's best, and what's going to happen to citizens of Serbia who have shown you confidence, and you've agreed to vote for one of the rules of procedure that led to this situation. Dear colleagues, remember that there are citizens in Serbia who understand and know what we are talking about here. That's certainly not possible in two minutes to explain. I have submitted an amendment to Article 22. Proposal for a law on international assistance in criminal matters. It's a procedural law. This article provides for two circumstances in which a judge can extend his detention – if a person is not available, or if a person is under reasonable doubt that it will not be available, and in the event that a person can influence witnesses if he is free. These are the two conditions provided for by this law, which is also very detailedly regulated in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and I therefore suggested that this article be deleted, because this substance is regulated in another law, specifically, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and there was no reason here, nor the need for such a member to be introduced into the law on international aid in criminal matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14964	National MP Sreto Peric did not take advantage of the time for the MP's group, he spoke within two minutes as an applicant for the amendment. Does anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 22, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted to the amendment, MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14965	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the gravest violation of Article 142. Rules of Procedure, when the principle debate brings together what cannot be united, today we have also experienced a violation of Rule 143 of our Rules of Procedure, where in particular we are discussing three laws completely incompatible. No one in the O.R. is clear what's going on, but it's probably the efficiency that our parliament needs to show. In 25 minutes, we need to talk about the 168 amendments that have been filed under this law. I must express my satisfaction, the DSS has submitted three amendments, one of which has been accepted. The Minister, unfortunately, is not here, we will have the opportunity to thank her for that, but we expected that the remaining two amendments, which are completely meaningful and improve the text of the law, will be accepted, first of all, by the one that is related to reciprocity in the process, which, as provided for by this bill, is assumed, which no lawyer can accept and approve, but we will see how it will go in the day for the vote. It goes to those colleagues who will vote that way. What we've proposed for this amendment is for the detention to be shortened, from the scheduled year, to six months. We are absolutely certain that this is in line with our legal system, although this provision has been taken over from the CAP, but we believe that, if we want an effective judiciary, this job can be done in six months, without being disturbed by the fact that within two months, the justification of the duration of detention is being verified. Given that the ambition for our judiciary to be effective, if it is copied from our Parliament, I am sure that effective justice will be nothing; the only comment on what is happening today and what is going to happen in the next period, given that you are not giving up on this, we are moving on. Please grant me 32 more seconds and eight hundredths to complete the thought. The fact is, we're not gonna fix anything like this. You did not accept the amendments that were to be accepted. There is nothing from an effective judiciary, there is nothing from an efficient Parliament, it is simply a comment – sad and ugly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14966	The word has been given by MP Jovan Palalic, an authorised representative of the DSS Parliamentary Group, using the time of the DSS parliamentary group. The time available is 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14967	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the amendment submitted by fellow Members of the Parliamentary Group, Miroslav Petkovic, is extremely important, because it indicates how many standards are being observed in our legal system. Namely, it is important to remind the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that enter into the freedom of the individual. The detention is one of the measures that encroachs on the freedom of individuals, especially when a reasonable doubt arises in the existence of criminal acts. Of course, the Code of Criminal Procedure defines what conditions are for detention, but the measure itself is exceptional. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia very precisely prescribes what time limits these are in which the person can be detained, or deprived of liberty. Here I will take the opportunity to quote these provisions of the Constitution. I think it is very important, because what is provided for in Article 22(2) of the proposed law is completely contrary to our legal system, specifically, to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment tabled by counterpart Miroslav Petkovic has just been accompanied by solutions from the constitution, as the investigative judge brings this solution. It is said in Article 31: "The length of detention shall be reduced to the shortest necessary time, given the reasons for detention". Can it be considered that the shortest time of the year, as this member of the law that we are now discussing, is the shortest time of the year? I'm sure it's not. Our constitution defines that in an investigation, detention can last for the longest six months. We believe that, if we take the essence, meaning, and have told the law for a long time, but, in order to imitate the solutions that exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia with this bill, in the amendment, we have provided for the detention, when it comes to these provisions of law and matter they regulate, to last for the longest six months, because I am the investigative judge to decide on it. I appeal here to the Department of Justice to respect this amendment, because we have not received any rational argument as to why it takes a year of detention by an investigative judge, according to this bill. Why does it take so long, what facts need to be established? If the procedure itself provided for by this law, by its nature, is urgent, and a year should be held in custody, it is really unacceptable. It is necessary to refer to the Constitution, Articles 30 and 31, and to obtain solutions to this law with the Constitution and this exceptional measure of deprivement of freedom of consciousness to the minimum possible extent. I appeal to all of our amendments that we have submitted, in an article. 8 and 22, and we are pleased that the amendment to the 91st colleague, Milice Gavrilovic, who regulated the question that foreign states, through their authorities, can act in the procedures of the state of Serbia, accept these two amendments – the existence of reciprocity and restrictions on the duration of detention to six months, although the minister is not presently there. We have presented enough arguments, calling for the highest legal act, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to allow these amendments to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14968	The time available to the MP's group is 22 minutes. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – sittings of the National Assembly, in addition to the MPs, shall be attended by members of the Government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives, as well as by other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly. We are now in a situation where the opposition's rights to speak are maximumly reduced. We try to tell everything we have to say in a short period of time. As far as I can tell, the minister of justice is not in the O.R., nor is Slobodan Homen in the O.R., nor is Jovan Ćosic in the O.R. Now I wonder, who are the MPs speaking to? Are we talking in the wind? Are we just talking about these stenographic notes? What's the point of our debate if a government official isn't here? You've reduced the time for discussion to the maximum, and you're contradicting the provisions of Article 143. Rules of Procedure, the real minister doesn't find it appropriate at least to listen to what the MPs are supposed to say in two minutes. We need to adopt the Law on International Criminal Assistance. Because of this law, someone will end up in prison, who knows where, to have something terrible happen to him in his life. Now the MPs speak in the wind. Mrs. Comic, make sure that, while the amendments are being discussed, the justice minister and other authorised representatives of the government are present, otherwise this debate and, in general, this work in the Serbian Parliament is becoming completely pointless. Who are we talking to? Who are we trying to make arguments to? If Mrs. Minister were here, she might accept some amendment when she hears our argument. How can she accept it when a woman isn't here? Please make sure the Justice Minister is present and tells us why our amendments are wrong, or at least let him listen to what we have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14970	Two minutes. Thank you. National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic announced that she invited Mr Zlatko Petrovic to this session and is present in the hall on behalf of the ministry, while the minister of justice is on a short break and will join us during the afternoon session. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted to the amendment, MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since there is no authorised representative here, there should be a break for the Minister of Justice to come. What my colleague Martinovic said, so we don't all talk in the wind, I join that constitution. What I'm trying to say is that we're talking about this legal project and it's unnecessary to talk, because, first of all, this legal project is not in agreement with the Constitution. We have stated in an explanation that the provisions of this law on international aid in criminal matters contain chapters 23 and 22 of the CAP. If we've been talking here all day that this isn't in agreement with the Constitution, that it's against the constitution, well, isn't that enough arguments to pull this legal project back, to work it out and not discuss it. Looking at this repression carried out here by this new rule of law, I would like to remind Mrs. Komic, and many of the MPs who sat here in the 1990s who fought for democratic processes, that they were struggling that the MP here could publicly state his opinion without being punished and not responsible. They fought for the citizens to express their opinion freely. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens remember well how many rallys there were, how many citizens were revolutions, and there are many victims. The last victim was at our rally, which was organised in connection with the arrest of Radovan Karadzic. Because of those dead souls, those who are called Democrats, should not trample democracy and endanger the rights of MPs and the rights of citizens. See for yourself, some arrests being conducted...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14972	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Please return to your seat. Would you like to speak within the time group of Members? Of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14973	Since I've been denied my time, I haven't said the main one. In this struggle for civilised society and democracy, he gave the most of himself the SRS, headed by Professor Vojislav Seselj. This man has served twice, in 1993 and 1994, because he freely expressed his opinion for the speaker, and along with him many of us have been brought into the Federal Parliament. This man has been lying in The Hague casamat today, with no basis whatsoever, and let's see what legal aid this authority has given him for the past six years. The only thing they gave him was to get him some more blame, or to find some witness who lies there and tells fiction. So, from this pay phone, I want to tell you Quasimocrats that what you're doing here is going to come back to you, and that, if God does, quickly, in the next election, because the people of Serbia see everything. The people of Serbia see everything, the people of Serbia are now destroyed, the people of Serbia are hungry, they are out of work, the people of Serbia have lost their basic rights, to express their revolt against this government and government, because you banish them every step of the way, you lie, and through some agencies. The people of Serbia can no longer express their dissatisfaction in a democratic way, and you have limited us MPs, so we cannot represent them legally and legitimately. I remind you that in parliaments the local self-government committee has the right to speak for five minutes on the legal project, has the right to three minutes on the line. These measures you're introducing, and that you've introduced, I'm convinced that this will cost you, if God will, in the fast days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14974	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to be submitted concerns the erasure of Article 24. The bill, because this matter is governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure and by other provisions of ratified and confirmed international and bilateral agreements which have become part of our country's legal system. I understand that the current government meets all the requirements of its Western mentors, who do not know our legal system and do not know that it was more logical to change the CAP in one part, but I do not know how this same government is wasting valuable time on its way to the EU, while not solving the basic life problems of our citizens, especially in the third municipality by the space in Serbia, Kursumlia. Due to the catastrophic privatisation of Žubora in Kursumlijska Banja, Metalca, Modne confecije "July 7th" and today especially the current Forest-Industrial combination "The Bath", the ammunition economy has been completely destroyed. These days, the "Bopalnik" workers kicked out of the owner's factory Ristic Slavic, who failed to meet the contractual obligations, did not pay taxes, contributions; under the contract he could only sell 5% of the property, and sold out almost everything. The privatisation agency itself has reported a loss of 14.5m euros, although the real situation is around 20m. In a consortium of 17 members, 15 members are from the DS. Workers of the Bathing Party, seeking help, spoke to the President of the National Assembly, the President of the State, the Prime Minister, the Privatisation Agency, who today decides to annul privatisation... (President: Time. ) The least that could have been done for these endangered people is to cancel the privatisation contract today, but we still don't have that information. (President: Do you want to continue within the time available to your party? No, I'm just going to invite someone from the ruling structure to give us information on whether the Privatisation Agency invalidated the Privatisation Contract in Kursumlia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14976	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Jojic, please. As an authorised representative, you have three minutes and 20 seconds in that time. Will you use that? I'm just reminding you that you haven't used your time as an authorised representative at this point, so you can use that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14977	On this occasion, I will speak as party representative. When it comes to Article 24, it is in direct contrast and cohesion with Article 30. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Who gave the right to propose this kind of nonsense? This is stupid to propose to the MPs. This is ridiculous. Is it allowed to detain someone without the guarantees of international institutions, that there is no guarantee of an international court? So someone can now phone the EU and say -- arrest this and this Prime Minister, or -- arrest that and that minister. Imagine now, the competent institution, or one of the authorities in Serbia, says - let's deliver it immediately. There'd be tears of both the earth and the sky if a minister delivered to us. Ladies and gentlemen, it is contrary to this provision with the Constitution, because no one can be extradited without the competent authority and the appropriate judicial decisions of the competent institution, i.e. The court, but our constitution makes it impossible. Therefore, Article 24 of this proposal of the law is in direct contrast to the provisions of Article 30. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and this should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14978	Thank you. Mr. Palalic, please. You want to talk about this amendment from time? All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14979	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is indeed a member, as well as an amendment, which the distinguished colleague has submitted, which needs to be discussed. In the previous discussion, we said that detention is an exceptional measure, because it deprives freedom, in fact, of the freedom that is defined by the Constitution for citizens. Now we're putting our state authorities in a situation where, past the pleas, they're applying for detention, if the request contains a statement. Paragraph 1 is said in point 4. - a plea will be filed. Look at the provisions of Article 5 of this Act, which accurately defines the contents of the plea. We have here an announcement that there will be an injunction filed, and at the same time we have a warrant from a foreign state authority to detain a particular person, without any particular explanation. Here it is said – there is an explanation, but this request is so narrowed down, that the question is whether our state body should act on such a request. You have one legal standard in the first sentence - emergencies. What are emergency cases? How do you appreciate emergencies, so that one person, without the detailed explanation contained in the penitentiary, will be detained, and what if that injunction is never filed, and one person is detained? I have the impression that, both when it comes to the provisions of Article 22 and when it comes to controlled detention, Article 24, we are easily playing with the detention of individual persons and the deprivement of liberty, regardless of what this is about a foreign citizen. As a serious state, we need to think about it and appreciate the individual's freedom and, in exceptional, detailed cases, depriving certain persons of freedom. It's not just our internal legal order, it's a lot of international conventions, and here, based on one legal standard -- emergencies, based on goodwill, the state may one day file a plea, we deprive the individual of freedom. I appeal here to the Ministry, the honourable minister is here to adopt an amendment submitted by counterpart Miroslav Petkovic to article 22 and to shorten detention for six months, and in this case this member was absolutely inadmissible and it was really necessary for him to wipe out. They should not be allowed to close their faces lightly without any serious explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14980	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14981	In addition to this amendment, we may be able to open our eyes to the peoples and citizens of Serbia, to realize that we are a state with limited sovereignty. It's enough for someone from any country to make such a plea without any explanation. We are already, as we can do and, apparently, showing readiness and giving a signal there that we are ready, doing what we are asked to do, although it is contrary to our positive legal regulations that regulate this matter and against the Constitution of Serbia. To this extent, we are ready to humiliate ourselves to have a Serbian citizen ask himself – why do I need a state at all, if it does not meet what I expect of it as a citizen? The state has, it's a mutual relationship, expectations of me, as a citizen, besides paying taxes, taxes, contributions and all that I owe, but I also ask the state to protect me, when I have to, against those who might want to hurt me, which I shouldn't. That's what the Constitution protects me from. We do not have the loyalty of the state to the citizens of Serbia, why should citizens be loyal to the state? This is not such an empty story at all, either a fairy law, or an irrelevant law, as you would like, in these two minutes, how much time you're giving us to talk about it, to get through it, to pass the law, and then we're going to grab the head and pull the hair and who knows who of you is going to be hit by this law and who, eventually, is going to suffer the adverse consequences of this law. At least read the daily press, if you do not listen to what is happening in countries that have proven themselves as our enemies – they have not finished their work in the Balkans. You see what is being prepared in the Federation of BiH, you can see that the Wahhabi are arming themselves, you can see that if Republika Srpska just shows a desire to join one day, or express its desire to be part of Serbia, everything is ready to be "blood to knee" there, as they say in the Western press. Look what's going on on Kim. No one in the state responds to this violence at KIM, what's going on in Shilov and the surrounding villages. After 10 days, people don't have electricity, they're conflicting with what's called. With the Shiptar police, no one has to protect them, and we're talking, even if it's limited sovereignty, but it's our country. Of course, it is also coming to us in the Raška region that we have announced for years that their last intention, since the process of the separation of Vojvodina has already begun. We play here with laws like this. Who, under what conditions, for which crimes will this law be struck, that the state of Serbia cannot protect it properly? Then we warn you that perhaps because of this law you have brought such a restrictive Rules of Procedure, and we cannot talk about it very much. The argument is that since 2000, you have referred to everything against the constitution and against international conventions as regards the delivery of Serbian citizens to The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14982	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, given that this is an international aid bill, and we know that Decada Roma is also an international aid, let me, you have my amendment written, to look back at something else that is happening in our city, and what the Assembly needs to know, and our institutions. We have a municipal company called Starship, which has been working for 16 years and has been fired from Belgrade's City Markets. Why did they get fired? Because it needs to be privatized; we can understand that. There's 280 to 300 Roma, I've received them and they've brought me all their problems. I appeal to our country, I appeal to all our institutions and to Mrs. Minister, who is present here and who is very expedient, who I believe will do everything to make sure this doesn't happen to the Roma community, because we all know that we are on the lowest margin, the poorest people. It was Decade - the return of the Roma, now that the Roma are working, they get fired. How do you manipulate the Roma community now? They shut down this company and they're transferring the Roma to the Youth Co-operation. They work 10.15 days and quit. The Roma stay on the street. I don't want to talk about whether or not this company wants to buy it, rent it, maneuver it, etc., but today you have 300 Roma who are out of work, and everyone has four or five children. It's about 1200 people who have nothing to eat. I got a call today, respected gentlemen, on the phone, these Roma, and they say they've been eating only cooked potatoes with their family for 15 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14984	The time to explain the amendment has expired, although you haven't explained the amendment, so your further time will go from another time, if you like, here you go, along time. If you want, go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14985	Thank you. I appeal and beg for the understanding and respect of all citizens, no matter what nationality or religion they belong to. We have a guaranteed right to work, we have the right to education, everything most citizens have. I ask these citizens of the Roma community not to be manipulated, to return to work. I'd like to appeal to Mr. Director of the Drinks, Dragan Pushar, to find a solution. The easiest thing to do is to throw the Roma out on the street. I'm not saying it's discrimination. I'm not saying that our country is discriminating against national minorities, but let's not even allow such phenomena, which seem discriminatory to national minorities, to the Roma community. I pray and appeal once again for understanding, for these people to return, not to make them from working people, honest citizens, Roma, criminals, and to throw them on the street. I believe this assembly and the institutions that will hear this will make it possible for the citizens of Roma nationality to work normally in the municipal company "Stars".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14986	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you adopt this law with Article 24 and Article 25, which Mr. Jovan Damjanovic has just spoken of, then you will come to the situation that BiH will ask you to hand over by emergency procedure, before they deliver a plea to you, for example, the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, ministers in that government, political officials of the Serb people in BiH. You may, even, tell me colleague Krasic, and Boris Tadic, because if I am not mistaken, he was born in Sarajevo. If you pass this law as you suggested, you will have that obligation. It is simply amazing that the billmaker does not understand the time in which he lives, does not understand the political context of events in the Balkans, or at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. The newspapers are full of articles, information, the fact that individual extreme Islamic groups in BiH are arming. The other day, you had a statement from a addressed man from Republika Srpska, who said that armed Muslim extremists are hiding under a fire unit company in certain parts of BiH. You have pressure from the West to reduce Republika Srpska's intelligence. It's about the new Dayton, the end of the Dayton Agreement. It's a political drowning of Republika Srpska. Crimes are being threatened against the highest officials of Republika Srpska. You may be asked by BiH to arrest people who are leading the Republika Srpska, or ministers in their government, and you will be obliged to follow this request. There's one more question here, Madam Minister. You have provided for the jurisdiction of various judicial authorities in this law. In particular, in Article 25, which Mr Jojic spoke of, the investigative judge is mentioned. Sometimes I wonder why you even bothered to mention all these judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia? You could have wiped them all out and said that all the jobs that concern the judiciary would be done by the Department of Justice. These days, a procedure is being launched to resolve some judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, only because they have applied the law. The judge must no longer apply the law as he considers necessary. It should be called the Department of Justice, that the minister of justice, or one of his advisors and assistants, is asking if a decision can be made, so if you get the green light, then you can make whatever decision you want. Serbia is precedentd in Europe to be threatened by the dismissal of judges, i.e. by their resolution only because man has applied the law. The judge can no longer judge what's legal and what's not legal. That exclusive authority now has the Ministry of Justice. We have a complete judicial system in V.D. condition. I don't know if anyone thought of that fact, but that's really true. You now appoint acting president, if I am not mistaken, the Supreme Court of Serbia, Mrs Nata Mesarevic, right? The woman who remained remembered in the court annals when she told the verdict to Milorad Ulemek to the Legion, when she made the lapus and said - we got the verdict, sorry, we reached a verdict. Such people will lead the judiciary, such people will decide on these urgent cases of yours, without a request, to arrest persons who may not be citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but are ultimately members of the Serb people. The Republic of Serbia is, I guess, a guarantee of respect for the Dayton Agreement, and Russia. I guess we have special relations with Republika Srpska. How do you think the links between Serbia and Republika Srpska work if you pass one of these laws, even if the law is ideal and far from ideal? You did everything you could to destroy Serbia's judicial system; judges are now in fear. Some of them are afraid of having a job at all, because you're threatening to re-election. Others are in fear, maybe the Justice Department won't like some decision. Who knows, they didn't ask the minister whether they should make a decision; a man went away to be delivered. People are scared. Everyone who works in the judiciary is afraid of dried bread. In that situation, who will consistently apply this law? A thousand and one abuse is possible. The weather around us is difficult, people in Serbia are having a hard time living, the economic crisis is threatened with the destruction of Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija for ten days people in Shilova have no electricity, no one from the government to say a single word, and at your call, EULEX came to Kosovo and Metohija. You claim that EULEX is supposed to be a mission of rule of law. Here, we see these days. Ask the men in Shiloh how this rule of law is conducted on their backs. If you mean by exercising the rule of law and over all the citizens of Serbia, then you have come down, indeed, a dark curtain over all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14988	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Plecevic, please. You've got 49 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26. The bill, which reads, "Article 26 is deleted." I believe that this article, like, and the whole bill of law, should be deleted, as I have explained and cited, first of all, because it is anti-constitutional. It is obvious that Boris Tadic's regime suffers huge pressures and blackmails from its Euro-Atlantic friends, especially America, as soon as he risked a drastic violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and struck the legal security of his citizens. With this bill, there is a "small door" in the form of the so-called "little door." international legal aid allows the extradition of our citizens to other countries, in cases where there is no confirmed international contract or where certain issues are not regulated. As a reason for the adoption of this law, the obligation to implement those documents, adopted by the signing of the European Convention on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, the European Convention on Extradition, the UN Convention, etc. This would not be a particular problem if someone should not be delivered to America, who does not recognise the International Criminal Court, no principle of mutuality in international law, and who, by violent methods, has provided that its citizens do not respond to the courts of other states. Those who commit crimes all over the world, like us in Cosmet, don't answer to anyone today. Tadic must demonstrate obedience, rudely violating constitutional principles and the rights of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14990	I was just about to tell you that you've been over two minutes, but if you want, you can talk. You won't, all right. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Djokic, please explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, on the proposal of the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, I have submitted an amendment to Article 27, and I believe that it should be deleted. Reason: International legal aid in criminal matters is regulated by the provisions of Chapter 32 – Procedure for providing international legal assistance and enforcement of international contracts on criminal matters (Art. 530 – 538) and Chapter 33 – Procedure for issuing accused and convicted persons (Art. 539 – 555) Code of Criminal Procedure (“Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia”, No. 70/01, 68/02 and “Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia”, No. 58/04, 85/05, 115/05 and 49/07), as well as provisions of ratified and confirmed bilateral agreements that have become part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. International legal aid, in addition to criminal justice, includes foreign affairs, internal affairs, state administrations and the like. The legislator has chosen the wrong path in legal regulation, opting for partial regulation of such wide-ranging legal matter. Political pressures suffered by the current authorities by its mentors, such as The Hague process, the "Kovačević" case and many others, cannot be a valid basis for justify the failures that appear in legal legislation. The SRS considers it necessary to implement the innovation and harmonisation of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, the provisions of the law in the field of justice, international and bilateral agreements, as well as other legal regulations in this area, and is therefore proposed to delete this member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14992	Thank you. Does Miss Natasa Jovanovic want to talk about this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14993	Madam President, first of all, I'd like to report to the Rules of Procedure, but I think that member is exhausted by this concise and dictatorial Rules of Procedure. I certainly came out to support, as an SRS MP, the amendment submitted to the bill by visiting counterpart Branimir Djokic, first of all because of the fact that, like the other Serbian radicals, it was not only in line with what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also with the member to whom it submitted the amendment, that it gave sufficient arguments, Mrs Malovic, to accept this amendment. As I sit at the post of vice president and do not want to take more time from our parliamentary group, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you and I can hear more than the MPs in the hall. So, before Mr. Djokic, who prepared himself seriously, just like all the MPs of the SRS, went for a pay phone, one of the unfortunate men threw him – whether he was going to talk from C or D-Mole. Mr. Djokic is a maestro of Serbia's National Radio-Television Orchestra, a well-known, respected man, not only as an estranged artist and as a top musician, but as a Serbian patriot and a Serbian radical. The one who threw it to him, and the leader of a sectarian group here, a certain citizen, Nikolic, has long played his part, and when the state authorities and the court do their job, will play there, as Mr Krasic says, for which a multiannual prison sentence has been threatened, for all those abuses and what he has done. Therefore, if someone throws Branimir Djokic, who is popular not only among those who are sympathisers, voters and members of the SRS, he speaks more about himself and every further comment I make is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14994	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) On Article 28, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mirovic wants to explain the amendment he submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14995	Ladies and gentlemen, all of our amendments aim to show disrespect for one of the fundamental principles of international law, which is the principle of reciprocity. In that regard, this amendment was also submitted to Article 28. International legal aid in criminal matters is not just the extradition of our citizens. After all, it is a measure that can only be applied extremely, and what is particularly important, not to our citizens. It's been the SRS' position for years. That this amendment should be accepted and that it is highly sensitive matter, not only in law but also in state and national terms, shows the 2001 example. It is known then, contrary to the Constitution, without legal regulation and against the will of citizens, with a quasi-right interpretation that the Statute of the Hague Tribunal is stronger than our constitution, which is total legal nonsense, a man who has been extradited twice legally elected in the multiparty elections, Slobodan Milosevic. What disastrous consequences this has had for our legal and state system, as well as national awareness, also shows the state in which this country and our legal system are present. The product of this chaos is this law, which should be withdrawn, because it is brought for propaganda reasons, should be made clear. More specifically, because of the virtual phrase of some kind of journey, the moment the country enters a major economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14996	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 29, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Ragush wants to explain this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14997	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, before I move on to the interpretation of the amendment, I would like to ask you if it is procedurally possible for me to present my presentation for two amendments, to Article 30 and Article 80, given that the same explanation is combined in this report? The Rules of Procedure are not explicit, so I'm asking for an explanation from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14998	You can talk for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u14999	Since it is the same explanation for these two amendments, and to bring my date down only this time, can I put together an explanation for both amendments to two members of the same law?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15000	We can't talk about the second amendment now, just the one that's on the agenda now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15001	That's your interpretation. Okay, then I announce that I will most likely use the time that the SRS parliamentary group has, given that in two minutes it is impossible to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15002	After two minutes, you'll have a good time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15003	What the SRS is proposing here and what is seen in the explanation, therefore, is that our belief is that the proponent has chosen the wrong path to legal regulation of such a broad legal matter, given the political pressures that are daily, unfortunately, for this ruling majority, but that is, to the very least, political reality. Any explanation of the amendments, to get out of a dry legal framework, first of all, because of the public in Serbia, can also be taken in specific concrete events. What I would like for you, Madam Minister, as a professional of reputation, to draw attention to, is the need for international legal assistance and regarding the report that Mr Robles submitted to the Council of Europe. It's about the situation in 2002, so it has nothing to do with you, but by taking over the resort, you've also assumed certain responsibilities for some of the previous situations. You may not have this knowledge, but here we are now distracting you, expecting you to examine the situation. So, Mr. Robles then, at the request of Mr. Marcel Valenten, it was the French general, the then KFOR commander, who was shocked by what he found in Bondsteel. In Bondsteel, he found installations and certain treatments that could be seen and what they were talking about in the infamous Guantanamo. According to his report, which was then attached to the Council of Europe on four sides, Serbs in Bondsteel were detained without legal basis and exposed to torture. The public in Serbia has no knowledge of it. But how did we come to know this? Of course, based on the writing of the Paris "Mondo". I'm taking a break, because some parts are in French, so I'm trying simultaneously to translate, expecting an answer from you. Since the international community expects certain international and legal assistance in criminal matters on our part, we understand that it is mutual co-operation, so let's see what the Council of Europe will do in this case, how our ministry will, in particular, you, Mrs Malovic, react. We also have here an official statement by Mrs Price, which was also not made public to us, or to the public, so that only now we find out about it, when the Council of Europe actually adopted a report on the secret prisons of the Central Intelligence Agency. Among other things, Bondsteel is mentioned as one of the secret prisons, where the Central Intelligence Agency, therefore, the American Agency, without legal basis, has brought people in, subjected them to torture, and we know very little about it. What did Mrs. Price say then? The only reason for not applying the Convention, which we are signatories, even as SCG, is that NATO and KFOR have never allowed representatives of the Committee for the Prevention of the torture of the Council of Europe to have unlimited access to all prisons and the Bodnstil base, as the Convention prescribes. The Council of Europe has officially announced on several occasions that the secretary general of the organisation, Terry Davis, has asked NATO to allow members of the Committee for the Prevention of Torture to access all prisons in Kosovo, but there has been no more concrete response so far. According to our knowledge, indeed, a solid number of Serbs were brought there without legal basis and subjected to a terrible torture. What we're asking of you is that you come into possession of a report presented in the Council of Europe, so that we have a precise and qualified insight into what is actually going on in Bondsteel. Given that the SRS has information that Guantanamo has a solid number of evidence of extortion by detained persons, who have also been detained there without legal grounds, there are reasonable doubts that something similar has happened within Bondsteel. So we're looking for a comprehensive NATO report. We know it exists. The Council of Europe couldn't come to that. We're looking for details of the investigation, the way of the arrest, and who were, in fact, the faces of the Serb nationality that Mr. Robles then saw in Bondsteel and what was happening next. We know that Mr. Robles has requested that the Bondsteel demonstrate installations like those in Guantanamo. We want a precise and exhaustive report on all this, given that it is important for some of our further knowledge and qualifications that we will certainly present to the Serbian public. What we can do as a parliamentary group is talk to the official institutions of Serbian society and put you to the test, see if the two-way co-operation with the competent institutions is truly being conducted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15004	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 31, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr Krasic wants to explain the amendment he submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15005	Thank you. This day, no wonder, this law is passed, this is the Rules of Procedure. Serbian citizens should understand, the government of the Republic of Serbia acknowledges that two European conventions cannot be applied directly and are not an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, but, according to the government, it is likely that Mrs Malovic, in a people known as the woman who signed a solution to the delivery of Karadzic Kazamatu (since Petrovic was not allowed to be a minister), Serbia has taken over the obligation to implement those documents in its legal system. International documents and international conventions are not an integral part of our legal system, but must be passed by law, so that we can install these principles and principles. It's a good innovation, but since this yellow coalition, with the red-colored bumps, power, we're getting a turboctature. In a few months, respected citizens, you won't even have television transmissions. Of course, they sold the land, now they've got people to sell. Vliko Stoiljkovic could not afford to be killed by such a law by an old man in The Hague, and here the coalition was created by the system: Tadic tells Dacic – sorry we killed Milosevic, and he says – no, no, you could have done it before. It is your destiny, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's where this government runs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15006	Mr. Krassic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15007	I'm very vividly explaining my amendment and I don't allow you to meddle in my amendment and spend my two minutes, or I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15008	I warn you to keep an eye on the names of the president of the state, Deputy Prime Minister and First Minister. I'd ask you to take care of it. (Zoran Krasic: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr Krasic has a word for the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to ask you to keep that in a decent tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15009	I do not need to ask you, but I call on Article 104 because you are violating the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly by your conduct, the way you call this session, the way you conduct this session, the way you interpret certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the way you imagine life in the Republic of Serbia. You've canceled everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15010	Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15011	I asked you to listen to me. I first said Article 104. I don't know how many times I have to tell you which member he is. I suppose you're an expert on the Rules of Procedure, if not you, then Odalovic, if not, then there's this lady from the show "Alo Alo", Comic. Look what you've done to the congregation! You expect us to participate in this circus? We won't. We want citizens to see -- when there is no Parliament, when there is no democracy, then it is anarchy and dictatorship. Just so you know, that's our future. Every day there are 30 to 40 billion dinars missing in the vault. There's no transfer to local self-government. Debt increases, the state goes bankrupt, and they entertain viewers with the Assembly, amendments in two minutes, and allegedly act like a democracy. What a democracy! I ask that in the voting day it is determined that you have injured the Rules of Procedure and I honor you these 30 seconds to go to Europe as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15012	In the voting day, your request will be realised. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 32, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Vesna.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15013	Let's just say that the secretary has deceived us, since there's been no money in the register for ten days, and he's been telling reporters there is. I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, which I have proposed to delete Article 32 of the Law, which reads: "In a solution allowing extradition, the minister responsible for the judiciary may condition extradition within the meaning of Article 14(1) of this Law, unless the extradited person expressly gave up those guarantees, and set other conditions for extradition". As is known, international legal aid in criminal matters is regulated by the provisions of Chapter 32 – Procedure for providing international legal assistance, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the provisions of Chapter 33, which cover the procedure for issuing accused and convicted persons, of the same code, as well as the provisions of ratified international conventions and bilateral agreements. International legal aid, in addition to criminal justice, includes foreign affairs, internal affairs, state administrations and the like. The legislator has chosen the wrong path in legal regulation, opting for partial regulation of such wide-ranging legal matter. Political pressures suffered by the current authority by its mentors cannot be a valid basis to justify the shortcomings that appear in the legislation. The SRS considers it necessary to implement the innovation and harmonisation of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, the provisions of the law in the field of justice, international and bilateral agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15014	Mrs. Maric, the time for the amendment is over. You can continue within time... You won't? (No) Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I hope you don't mind the SRS insisting that you attend the session. You have an interactive role in this whole story, as an authorised representative, since you may be defined to accept some of our amendments. On the other hand, if Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, for example, has arrived to go to the Fireman and come back and be with us today, I don't think it should be difficult for you either. Just so I don't waste my time trying to explain this amendment in this time of minute and twenty seconds, all in the spirit of the new Rules of Procedure, adopted in accordance with Euro-Atlantic aspirations. I'll try to be efficient and rational. The legislator of this law has chosen the wrong path in legal regulation, opting for partial regulation of such wide-ranging legal matter. Political pressures suffered by the current authorities by its mentors, The Hague process, the "Kovačević case" and so on, cannot be a valid basis to justify the procedures that appear in the legal framework. The SRS considers it necessary to implement and comply with the provisions of the CAP and to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, with the provisions of the law in the area of justice, international and bilateral agreements, as well as with other legal regulations in this area, and therefore is proposed to delete this member. I believe I've been unspeakable. If, eventually, there is some time left from what remains of the SRS, our authorised representative will further explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15016	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 34, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34. A bill on international legal aid in criminal matters, in which I asked for article 34 to be deleted. Otherwise, Article 34. The bill concerns the postponement of extradition by solutions allowing extradition by the minister, which regulates Article 32 of the same law. The SRS believes that this law should not have even been passed because it does not improve legal regulation in our country at all. By this law, when you adopt it, because it will certainly happen, you will only once again show that you have succumbed to all the pressures from abroad, which is already clear to everyone. The SRS considers it necessary to innovate and bring the provisions of the CAP into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, the provisions of the law in the field of justice, international and bilateral agreements, as well as other legal regulations in this area, and therefore propose to delete this member. The position of the SRS is well known that no Serbian citizen should be handed over to foreign courts, because we are all witnesses of how our citizens are passing through in these courts. Which and what internationally recognised lawyers and courts we are talking about, when those with whom, by this law, you prescribe co-operation can calmly observe that Vojislav Seselj is staying in The Hague tribunal for six years; instead of raising their voice against it, they are trying in every way to extend his stay there, regardless of any evidence against him. Instead of hoping that you will adopt all the laws that the EU has prescribed for you, you better write a law that, God forbid, will allow you to catch Ratko Mladic, because if you do not, you are free of all these laws. We Serbian radicals want this never to happen, even if the time to explain the amendment is short for one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15018	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards Article 35, the amendment proposes that the removal of this article, because it does not provide any guarantees, may remain a dead letter on paper, that a temporary extradition of the person to another country of prayer will be returned to the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia. This applies, to the citizens, to the persons who are foreign citizens, who have been detained or convicted for some crime, and are sought by their country of origin for the crimes they have committed in their country. It can also apply to our citizens sought by another state, with alleged guarantees that they will be returned to Serbia after some time. In this case, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated. In practice, it might look like this. Albania's citizen was caught in Serbia while trying to smuggle drugs, weapons or attempted trafficking. That person is being processed under the laws of the Republic of Serbia. However, that person may be a member of Albania's secret service, or a person who is under some kind of protection, perhaps a corrupt senior politician in Albania. The minister of justice makes a solution after a while, under the law of the state, to temporarily hand the said person over to Albania. The Republic of Albania, as a state of prayer, provides guarantees that a temporary extradition of the person, at the request of our justice minister, will be returned to the Republic of Serbia. Then what can happen? The person who committed serious crimes in Serbia has temporarily surrendered to Albania and the Republic of Albania, after some time, to inform our judicial authorities that the said person has escaped custody, or has passed away, and that's the end of the story... (President: Time. I'm done. Who's going to check it out more and who's going to find out if...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15020	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 36, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36. The draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters, which reads: "is deleted". You have singled out one continent here from the CAP and put it into a special law, and all to meet the conditions for obtaining a white Schengen visa, not taking care of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 36 states that the minister responsible for the judiciary may decide not to require the return of a temporarily extradited person. This member leaves the minister at will to decide on the fate of the temporary extradition. That's why I suggested deleting article 36.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15022	Thank you. Mr. Jojic, about this amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15023	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a bigger misunderstanding, is there such a formulation, which is not accepted in international law or with us, formulations and terminology as it is in the draft of this law? In Article 36, paragraph 1 states – if the person is temporarily extradited, he has to be included in the detention he has spent as a temporary extradition. What happens if the minister in charge of justice doesn't apply for that person to be returned to his custody? That is to say, as stated in Article 36(2) - taking into account the circumstances set out in Article 1 of this Article, the minister responsible for the judiciary may decide not to require the return of a temporarily extradited person. Our citizen is being temporarily extradited, the minister says - I am not asking for his return to the state of Serbia. This is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and this is certainly by order the proposed standard for individual cases. You know America is looking for Miladin Kovacevic. Whether he will be temporarily extradited or not, it depends on the government in Serbia. If it is, with motive and titled temporary extradition, and the Minister of Justice in the Republic of Serbia says - I will not file a request to be returned, that is how the norm proposed is misused, there is law for you, there are abuses, where our citizens can be chicanned, extradited... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And by other people's signs abroad. Therefore, it should not be allowed, this law is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15024	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Palalic, please. On the amendment or as an authorised representative? As an authorised representative, you have 12 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15025	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an extremely important amendment, especially in the previous article 35, which is covered by a section called - procedure before the minister. In the light of this bill, we, as one of the most important reasons why the law is passed, have led to a more precise regulation of the minister's jurisdiction. There is an impression when the provisions of Art are analysed. 31st to 37th, that the minister was given extremely high authority. These two members, 35th and 36th, must be observed in relation to Article 8, to which the DSS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment. This defines the possibility of temporary extradition, which is exclusively within the jurisdiction of the minister of justice. Article 36 gives great authority to the minister, that he does not have to demand, after the temporary extradition, the return of this person to Serbia. The question arises -- which raised these provisions that, although the extradition solution has been made, although, eventually, the person is being prosecuted in the state of Serbia, we still, at the request of the state of prayer, decide to extradite the person? In relation to Article 8, we have no idea about it, because Article 8 defines it that way. Is there any interrelationship with that state? There's just an assumption, even though we don't have any information that reciprocity exists. What happens if there's no interrelationship, if our competent state authorities don't have any information that reciprocity exists? We hand that person, for whom we have the interest in ending the criminal procedure in Serbia, that he supports sanctions in Serbia, hand over to another state; that state should provide some guarantees that he will return it, but since in the previous period he has not provided any evidence that he wants to cooperate with us, there is no reciprocity, that person never has to return. This is the interest of the Serbian state to conduct a criminal procedure in Serbia completely devalued. The essence of these provisions is that in a very strange and very broad way they give authority to the minister of justice. We don't think that was necessary, were quite enough of those provisions relating to the jurisdiction of the courts, to the investigating judge, to the council which decides in the extradition procedure, to cover the procedure. This is where the minister of justice, with such powers, gets some sort of superiority, a supremacy over the judiciary, to decide whether to temporarily extradite someone and whether to return them to the state of Serbia at all, if there is any interest. I repeat, especially in a situation where there is no information about the reciprocity between the state of Serbia and the state to which we temporarily extradite the person, and we expect that there is a good will that the state will give guarantees to return that person. It's really very strange and we want to hear from the minister of justice one concrete, rational reason – why does this power of the Ministry of Justice get?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15026	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs Dimitrijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to explain to the citizens of Serbia, within two minutes, or 120 seconds, which is set out in the new Rules of Procedure, why I have submitted the amendment, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group, to the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters, to Article 37, which refers to the surrender of the accused or convicted, which reads: "The Ministry of Internal Affairs is implementing a solution allowing extradition. The ministry of office of the 1st member shall agree with the competent authority of the State to pray for the place, time and manner of surrender of the accused or convicted. The surrender shall be effected within 30 days of the date of the adoption of the decision referred to in Article 32 of this Act. If the state prays, without justifiable reason, not to take the accused or convicted scheduled day of surrender, it is released. At the reasoned request of the State of Prayer, a second day of surrender may be determined. ". I have proposed an amendment to delete Article 37, because this article should be deleted, as well as all other members of this bill and should not be adopted. In our legal system, there is a Code of Criminal Procedure and its provisions regulate international legal aid in criminal matters, as well as provisions of ratified and confirmed international and bilateral contracts. As a reason for the adoption of this law, the Proposer states that the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation to implement its legal system of documents that it has confirmed, which are the European Convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, the European Convention on Extradition and the UN Convention on Transnational Organized Crime, with additional protocols. It soon expires on the Rules of Procedure for a two-minute period. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for failing to explain my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15028	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15029	Madam Chairman, I must tell you that you have injured Article 87. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "The National Assembly meetings, alongside the MPs, include members of the Government and authorised representatives of other legislators." Article 143. The Rules of Procedure, in paragraph 2, defined that the total time of the search in the particulars of the parliamentary groups is allocated to the parliamentary groups by a proportion of the number of MPs, and in paragraph 1, it is said - the time for the search in the particulars of the parliamentary groups is the same as the total time for the search in principle. Now I want to talk about the book code, and Mr. Markovic is gone. So the basic fact is that the rebellion you've made by making this Rules of Procedure is that we can't talk about what we want. So, call Mr. Milan Markovic. According to the amendment to this law, after the amendment, I want to talk about the law on parent books, and when the amendment comes to the law on parent books, I'm going to talk about the subject of preventing money laundering, what's connected in this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15030	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. On several occasions, we have explained this question of yours and the objection, that is to say, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, as you say, and it is decadently stated in Article 143(1) that the search is carried out in particular by the members to whom amendments and amendments are proposed, with the total time for the search in particular for parliamentary groups being the same, etc. Therefore, you may not be satisfied. You must interpret, learn, understand the Rules of Procedure. By the Rules of Procedure again? So, there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure and the time you were saying entered into the time for your parliamentary group. When there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's so, you know. Read the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Will you do it again? The second time you're already talking about the same contents that were already mentioned at this session. You have no right to do that. Article 87, that injury has already been pointed out, it's been answered and you've been talking about it again, about the exact same member today. We'll take a look at the stenogram. There were already words, with exactly the same content you were talking about. Here you go. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15031	Madam Chairman, you're welcome to see in the stenogram that no one has mentioned Milan Markovic, except me. So, Article 101, so you don't put me back in time at Parliament time. I've quoted certain members of the Rules of Procedure. You misread me. You put these three things together. We have 10 hours for three laws and for amendments to those laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15032	That's what I was talking about. I give you a warning, because despite what I just explained to you and warned you, you still speak exactly the same way. I think you're abusing the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a heads-up. Please don't throw it away. You can't go on, you don't have another word. Go to your seat. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? On Article 38, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think you've injured Article 106, article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You gave Mr. Milan Avramovic a warning. All right, that's your assessment, but nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that when you give the MP one warning, he is obliged to interrupt his presentation and return to his post. He is obliged to do so only when you give him a second warning, or when you give him a special measure of taking away words. You only gave him one warning. He has the right to complete his presentation, and that has been the case many times in the National Assembly. Therefore, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that, when you give notice to the MP, he loses his right to further debate, or further explanation of why he considers that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15034	Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Avramovic had one warning yesterday, today he got another and no more words, that's the third measure. So he was taken away from the word now, and that is practically the third measure, after two warnings, one of which was yesterday; at the same session there are two warnings. The third measure, the third sanction is taking away words. Third sentence, after two, taking away words. You can't talk to me like that, please. In case you think I didn't do the right thing, in the voting day, we can make that clear. Thank you, we'll continue our work. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15035	I appeal to Article 37, paragraph 2, and I warn you, Madam Chairman, it would be better if you went today to light a candle to the late president of your party, to pray to God for his soul, to receive him into a paradise settlement, than to conduct democracy here. We are actually glad that you are doing this, because this is the best way for the public in Serbia to see how you are experiencing Parliament and how you imagine parliamentary democracy. I expect you to give me a warning, too. I don't know how far you've come with these warnings, whether I have one or two, whether I'm already mature to throw out, or to take away words, because you can do anything. Please, it should be your free jurisprudence as well as how it's undermined by what's written in this Rules of Procedure. You have to explain what one of us did, which isn't allowed in this Rules of Procedure, in order for you to sort of punish him. It's your discretionary right. You may think you're right, some of us think you're wrong, but see, the Rules of Procedure lets you, given that you're the first among the equals, that you have a little bit more rights than all the other MPs do. Well-meaningly, I advise you not to abuse that right because it's at your expense. The function you are taking gives you the opportunity to be a very respected and respected person in the state of Serbia and it is up to you that the citizens of Serbia will experience you, and through you – how they will experience and respect this institution and all the MPs. I'm asking you to protect yourself, and that's how you protect us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15036	I thank you, and once again explain, I first warned the gentleman that he was talking about the contents of Article 87, which were already spoken of at today's session, and then I just gave him a measure. Since he had two warnings, respecting this Rules of Procedure, the only option was taking away words. Thanks for the applause. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? On Article 39, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 40, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15037	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, the practice carried out by the ruling majority continues in parliament when it comes to the amendments of the SRS. They don't accept, whether they're good or bad. Over 100 amendments to the SRS were rejected. The time of two minutes is too little to say anything of any quality about them. During that time, since the amendment has not been accepted, I need to convince the ruling majority that he is good and that he should be accepted. The Democratic Party believes that if the amendment has not already been accepted, it does not have to be explained, because it will certainly not be accepted and that its explanation is unnecessary, it is a waste of time for them. I must say, right after the second minute is out, the right of the MP to finish the sentence, to finish the thought. What about tolerance? Let's just think of the many commercials that were on television about tolerance. If the government, the ruling majority, the chairman of Parliament has no tolerance whatsoever, what message is being sent to the citizens? How are they supposed to behave? How will this affect their everyday behavior? Should everyone be as intolerant as you? You're showing an extremely bad example to the citizens of Serbia. After we cut time from 15 to two minutes, you should let us finish the exposure. You used to have a lot more understanding. Democracy has turned into a dictatorship. Rigorous adherence to the members of the Rules of Procedure, attempt to abolish the transfer of the Assembly, kidnapping of municipalities, kidnapping of mandates, and forms of dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15038	Thank you. There was not a word, not a single one, about the explanation of the amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15039	Madam Chairman, before I finished law school, I studied pedagogy and he finished. I also studied Jan Komnensky. This is about holding a session and this dictatorship, this political atmosphere that is being seduced in Serbia. This isn't your fault, Madam President, that's true. I remind you that Makarenko Anton Semyonović, born in 1888, died in 1939, wrote the book "Pedagogical Poem". Those who pass these laws and such rules should read it before, because they must know that they will also have to deal with the people's representatives. Jan Komnenski, who was born in 1592 and died in 1670, otherwise thinker, humanist, theorist, is also known in the world as one of those who applied certain educational methods. Here the wrong educational methods are applied to the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the proposal for this law, I must say that its provisions are contrary to the principles of international law, above all, with the principle of legality, the principle of equality, the principle of fairness and the principle of proportionality. So, ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow Members, what's going on with the legal norm, with the right, therefore, with the legal order in Serbia, which has been real and built for centuries... Can I go on? (President: You can. ) I will continue as representative of the SRS. I thank Mrs. President. Madam President, we have connected these agenda points regarding terrorist financing. I'm asking a question because I have a suspicion that terrorism and terrorist organisations are also being financed by the Agrarian Mafia. "Agrarian Mafia" in Serbia is not controlled. The Agrarian Mafia has usurped hundreds of thousands of Serbia's most fertile countries, owned usurperants, paid the state nothing. According to me, the mafia has denied the Serbian budget of about 50 billion dinars. I don't need to list what the mob is, but I have to point out that all state-owned enterprises, former PICs, some cooperatives, former agricultural goods, usurped up and that the usurpers are in possession today, and no one owns them, no one removes them from that property. Harmful contracts shall be concluded. I'll just give you a few examples. In the municipality of Kovilj, about 50 million dinars did not enter the municipality's budget, either on the finance ministry's gyro-account, i.e. in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The pastures were also usurped by powerful men, profiters, tycoons, Preorals, such as Omolica, Banatski Brestovac, Skorenovac, Plocic, Gaja, Delibat, Dubovac, Mramorka and other places, especially in southern Banat territory. The tycoons don't pay. Even the forests that were planted after World War II, they were cut off these days and driven away, and no one is persecuting them for it. Very harmful contracts are being concluded. You have people who have concluded contracts on thousands of hectares, who owe a million or two euros, that's not coming to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I accuse the finance minister and the minister of agriculture, particularly Minister Milosavljevic. He's the biggest culprit, and he'd have to be held accountable for the abuse, the conclusion of harmful contracts. He concluded about 340, according to my knowledge, of the contract to rent state land. The tenants don't pay a certain strain interest when they fall in late, as regulated by the Bond Relations Act. Ministrys in charge of finance and agriculture do not terminate contracts. Why? He can't press charges. Why? So the profiteers get rich and the poor suffer. The state is damaged, but the state is not taking any action. I repeat, the state agricultural land represents our government of "Aleibe's straw". They can do whatever they want, they can use it whoever they want, they don't want to make bills, nobody's gonna touch it, nobody's gonna even shut it up, and they're doing politics. I doubt these funds are funded by terrorist organisations and terrorists. Therefore, first of all, I accuse Minister Milosavljevic, I repeat, and the current Minister for Agriculture, Water and Forestry, because he does not file charges, which does not break off contracts, which does not take measures to initiate procedures in all municipalities, to return to all villages pastures and mornings, because by the law of 1946, this property, therefore, in the morning and pasture, was taken and converted into general property, so that in 1992 a law was passed in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, in this home, which he normised and predicted that all pastures and the necks of the peasants would be brought to this House. Since then, however, villages have not returned to the mornings and pastures. The mornings and pastures are very useful. These pastures and mornings were created by the fact that once the peasants gave their land to certain properties in order to have pastures near the village. Therefore, they were damaged by two grounds. I'm accusing the government and the Ministry. Those who do not take action against thieves, robbers and usurper of people's property must respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15040	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, on the proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, I have submitted an amendment to Article 43, which is in section – Presumptions for the taking of criminal prosecution. I propose that this member be deleted because it is contrary to the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS believes that amendments and additions to the Criminal Law can regulate this matter, not in this way as proposed by the legislator. On the other hand, I would like to meet your MPs if there had been more protests in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija lately. One protest was a protest by judicial workers outside the Kosovo Mitrovica Court. After two days of protest, because he's so-called The EULEX mission brought international judges who began to judge and lead the processes in Kosovo Mitrovica, from the justice ministry, probably, by Ms. Malovic, came a ban on strike, to demonstrate, to protest, and the reason was that the workers of the judiciary were convinced that international judges would judge under the Constitution of the quasirepublic of Kosovo. (President: I warn the MPs not to obtain from the post. ) They received promises from the Ministry of Justice and from the state that these judges would benefit from the 1974 criminal law. However, after these protests ended, they allowed a couple of judges to attend the trial and then we received information... Please, just let me continue one or two minutes after this, refuse me from the time of the Parliament's group. They have been tried by law in 2004, by criminal law, by the provisional criminal law of Kosovo's provisional institutions. However, the provisional law and those provisional institutions are no longer so, because they have declared Kosovo's unilateral independence, and have prevented Belgrade from protesting and pointing to the problem of implementing the Martti Ahtisaari plan in Kosovo and Metohija, the Eulex mission. On the other hand, there were protests in Shilovo, due to a day-long power outage. You've seen how members of the so-called so-called "response" react. Kosovo police services and international forces - beating our mothers, our fathers, our children. It was very sad to watch the bats beat up old and weary people, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is silent, not advertising for any moment, not warning, not calling for reason and not responding, so that the current, however, would come to Shilovo, and Gracanica, and to Nometin, Babin Most, Priluje and Grace. So, all those legal protests organized by a set of people, to point out something he doesn't like, something that violates his rights, it seems like force. That's what we have here, in Parliament, where the dictatorship of MPs is demonstrated. No wonder, then, that the province's SPS board, held two days ago in Strpc, decided to propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia that temporary measures be imposed in all local KIM self-governments, where the government forms the SRS and DSS. Based on what? Only because of their will, their power, because they have a mechanism of power, because they have executive authority, which is terror not only over these local self-governments, but precisely over the people who chose those local self-governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15042	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 44 refers to the delivery of a plea and criminal record to the public prosecutor, as well as opinions on the fulfillment of certain assumptions relating to the provision of international legal assistance. The government has, of course, rejected this amendment, with the reasons it has written for 60 other amendments, so for a short time I will not read this argument. I'd just like to say a few sentences to the government's response to my amendment through Mrs. Minister, who's here. It is said, "If you want to see what your country is and what its future is, then first look at how many innocent people are in prison, and how many are on the loose of villains and thieves. If in our country, and with you in power, we'd analyze this fact, I think we'd come up with fraternizing data, especially in relation to this other circumstance, the environment as many villains and thieves are on the loose. I've read a really interesting line about this. She says, about like this – if we were to have a case, and I say not God, there was a hijacking of the plane, the request of the kidnappers would not be, as usual, to let someone go free, but rather, that many go to prison. I think that list would be big.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15044	It's time for the amendment. Thank you. If you want, you can continue. If you won't, fine. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Kristin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of this restrictive Rules of Procedure, I don't know if I'm going to be able to explain this article in the 45th to the extent that the MP who consulted with the top lawyers from the SRS Parliament Club and those who are helping us, I'm talking about the most prominent experts and lawyers. Article 45 says - the competent public prosecutor may decide to take over the prosecution if the assumptions provided for in Article are met. The 7th and 43rd of this law. Gentlemen, the assumption is one thing, but if a public prosecutor comes to those documents, when listening, if he comes to future witnesses, there's no assumption that a public prosecutor will take over the shop and prosecute, there's no guess, he's moving. If we take the assumption, there goes the assumption, so the Sunday assumption, the monthly assumption, the annual one, and we here, gentlemen, from this very majority that makes this government, we have the construction mafia, we have the customs, travel, oil, energy, medical, agrarian mafia. What do you think it would be like if that public prosecutor was still preparing and making assumptions about whether he should go after this mob, so the government guys -- not that mob, but homey, there's less important?- I'm sorry. That's why you have this mob, which is in Zrenjana's image of the Democratic Party, the Civil Mafia, you have the Agrarian Mafia, which is the painting of the G17. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia, but I don't have time to explain the other mafias that covered this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15046	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of the amendments that we have submitted to all these laws whose proposal is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the essence of the government's attempt to reduce the rights of the opposition in this Parliament, above all, I mean the SRS, is the next. Serbian citizens in 2009, and possibly, unfortunately, for the next few years, will have a hard time living and will have difficulty, perhaps least because of the world's economic crisis, but because of something else, because of Mladjan Dinkic, because of Bozidar Djelic, because of the fact that numerous malfeasances occur at the top of the country, that crime and corruption are booming. Now the easiest thing to say – citizens, you have a hard time living because of the global economic crisis. The only SRS and individual opposition parties in this House, for this speaker, are in a position to explain to citizens the essence of the social and economic situation. All media with a national frequency in the Republic of Serbia are under the control of Boris Tadic's regime. There are no more free words in Serbia. Two days ago, the SPO celebrated the anniversary of the nine-story demonstrations. Now, in 2009, I hope that you from the SPO agree with me, a hundred times worse situation in the media than when RTS led by Dusan Mitrovica. Today RTS is a hundred times worse than that 'Bastilla' TV from 1991. Opposition representatives have little space in the media with a national frequency to explain to Serbian citizens the essence of the social situation in Serbia. What was it, Mrs. Malovic, that you, as Minister of the Government of Serbia, should answer that question to us, say, with Bojan Krist? If it hadn't been for the SRS and Mr. Dragan Todorovic who opened the affair, and all along you claimed we were violating the Rules of Procedure, that there were no references to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and regarding the business of the director of "Nikola Tesla" in Belgrade, no one living in Serbia would know that a senior G17 official plus, one expert, Bojan Kristo, took more than 800,000 dinars in the name of the salary only in June 2008. A man went to Dusseldorf for a few days, probably shopping, to get his passions down a little bit, until some new affair arrives to cover this one with him. He came back safe and sound. Is he missing hair from his head? Has anyone done anything against this man? You tell Serbian citizens to tighten their belts, turn off the light when they leave the apartment, not to put hot soup in the fridge. On the other hand, Mrs. Malovic, you know it best, if you are a member of the DS, you can have two and three salaries, to take as much money as an ordinary man can hardly spend for 10 years of his life. For Serbian citizens, there is no money. Serbian citizens should feel all the weight of the economic crisis, citizens, not mobsters, not criminals, not tycoons, not those sitting in government, not Boris Tadic, there is no crisis for them. They will be gardening and living happily, as they have lived since 2000, and you, citizens of Serbia, tighten your belt, watch the media with a national frequency running through Serbia with honey and milk, as we are about to join the EU. Here's another one, and another one, and another law to pass in the Serbian Parliament, here we are in the EU, here's a white Schengen visa. Where will they travel, Mrs. Malovic, Serbian citizens with your famous white Schengen visa, even if they get it? Where to travel a man you left without a job, without bread, who can't be treated, who can't train his child, because, by the example of your European friends, you've set astronomical scholarships in colleges? How can a man who has a pension of several thousand dinars travel somewhere? Where to travel? Give him a hundred of your white Schengen visas, man, and if he will, he has no money to travel. You're distracting the citizens of Serbia. The essence of reducing the opposition's right is that Parliament becomes a quiet place, a place where no one can say anything about Boris Tadic, Mladjan Dinkic, about Bozidar Djelic, about criminals, about people who have completely destroyed Serbia since 2000, in every respect, in political, economic, educational. They're destroying the health system. That's why the opposition needs to be silenced, so the SRS needs to be silenced, so it needs to be impossible for the SRS to say what you're doing in local self-government - you're taking one municipality at a time. Now Zemun, a few days ago, is the King. You're about to kidnap the Odjaks municipality. Your coalition partners, the Socialists, are demanding that all local self-governments be abolished on KIM where it is in the power of the SRS. What are you doing? We've had all the worst that could happen, and sanctions, and bombings, and the abduction of our territory, and the arrest of our citizens, and the murder of our citizens in The Hague, we've yet to face civil war. Are you causing a civil war? Are you saying that these Serbian radicals should not be in power in any of the municipalities in Serbia, despite the results of the May 11th elections? Where does it say that DS has to be in power at all levels? In the Republic, in the province, in every municipality, in every city, in every local community, there's only DS. Do citizens who don't think like you live in Serbia? Do citizens who say they live in Serbia – it is right that the SRS, because it is fighting for national and state interests, is right that Dr Vojislav Seselj is right because he will not admit that Serbs are guilty of all the evils of this world? Do such citizens live in Serbia? They're alive. Do they have any rights? No, I don't. Your people in local self-government, and those in Zemun, and those in the Belgrade City Assembly, think the following way – what we care about is what the Constitution says, what it says in the Law on Local Self-Government, what it says in the Law on the Capital, we have our people in the Government, we cover all our screwups; we can do whatever we want, drive people out on the street, threaten to quit, to selectively carry out the rationalization of municipal administrations in local self-governments in Serbia, only the radical surplus, everyone else is welcome. In some municipalities in Serbia, you fire people you suspect are members or sympathisers of the SRS, but that's why you take a hand and a hat from your party staff, that's what this is about. That is why you do not allow the SRS to speak in this parliament, so Serbia's parliament is the only parliament in Europe in which the applicant of the amendment has the right to say in two minutes why he wrote exactly such an amendment. Where's that? Where is it that parliament is a place where it is silent, where an MP is punished for saying something that Boris Tadic doesn't like? Where are your European standards, where are your European principles? That's what this is about. You're passing a law of co-operation in international criminal matters, you're extracting one substance already regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure. What's next? Tomorrow you will say - dear citizens, honourable MPs, to join the EU, we need to pass a special law on the exemption of judges, and a special law on detention, and a special law on the determination of fines, and a special law on the determination of prison sentences, and a special law on appeal, and a special law on the application for the protection of legality. Pull out a completely criminal substance, blur the eyes of Serbian citizens as if you're doing something. Don't do anything, you're destroying Serbia. Today we're talking about the National Educational Council, and there's no Minister of Education. Do you know where he was? On Fox TV. Fox TV is more important than the Serbian Parliament? Who cares if Mihajlo Djuric resigned as a member of the National Educational Council? You have your half-trons, you have your servants, you have your obedient academics, you have your professors, you have your scientists, you have what you're doing on the orders of the Western ambassadors here in Belgrade. It's getting more and more important, and Fox TV, and Sofia, and who knows what, it's just not the National Assembly. Boris Tadic said the SRS MPs should be quiet; we took away their right to visit national televisions, we drive them from local self-government in Serbia, there remains a assembly speaker. It is necessary to abolish the right of Serbian radicals to say anything from the assembly speakers and then no more free words in Serbia, then you have completely seduced the dictatorship, then there is no opposition anymore, except for these favorite oppositions of yours. That's what this is about. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I am surprised that you, as a woman belonging to a party whose president was Slobodan Milosevic, who was killed today in The Hague tribunal, was killed by enemies of the Serb people. These enemies don't think well of you either, as they don't think well of us either. That's what this is about. One word that someone said on the subject today. Does the Serbian government wonder what is happening to a Serbian citizen in The Hague? Is that we hate him, is that we hate his political party, is that we do everything to destroy his political party, but wait, he's a citizen of Serbia. Where in the world can the defendant be held responsible for contempt of the court? In America, in Great Britain, France, the defendant has the right to lie, has the right to keep quiet the facts he knows, just to defend himself. In The Hague, when you can't prove someone guilty after six years, after all the possible archives you opened in this country, you say - yes, but he doesn't respect the court. Do you respect the state of Serbia? I see how you respect her. You respect it so that ministers can have three salaries, and an ordinary citizen of Serbia cannot have either. Your children can go to school in the United States, in the United Kingdom, in France, and our children can't go to school here in Belgrade either. You're on your way now to destroy all state colleges. You give credentials to various colleges. Imagine, Mrs. Malovic, you're a lawyer, there's a college in Novi Sad called the Faculty of Directors, he's been accredited. I wonder if the Minister of Education knows what a man gets when he graduates from the Faculty of Directors? A graduate director? He can't do anything but be the director. This is what you have reduced the educational and educational system of Serbia and, in general, what you have brought the state of Serbia to. If these topics could not be discussed, the SRS should be silenced in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15048	People's MP, I warn you that, using the time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group, you have exposed 12 minutes and 30 seconds out of the agenda, i.e. in violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am under the obligation that a MP who deliberately abuses the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, demeans the National Assembly and does not speak of the agenda, I warn and remind myself that it is forbidden. So, 12 minutes and 30 seconds, I expected, in any way, everything you said to connect to the agenda point and, unfortunately, that didn't happen. So I'm asking you best to take care of the agenda next time you get a word in, and talk about the agenda, without doubting that you can do it. (All the time of speech by the chairman, Gordana Comic, MPs of the SRS group applauded. ) The word has the People's MP Branko Ruzic. I thank the MPs of the SRS who support talking about the agenda, not that the 103th member is being violated, as MP Aleksandar Martinovic did. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15049	I would really like to use Article 101(2) to replicate, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group and on behalf of the SPS, and to reject and deny what has been said here on the issue of coalitions, first of all, at KIM. No SPS warrant allowed any coalition to be torn apart in local self-governments in Kosovo and Metohija. Some media have published and abused something that is not a fact. In that sense, I also want to calm down those citizens who sincerely believe in the SPS, but also in the coalitions that this party has made at the locals and with the SRS and with the DSS. I don't think it's correct to put it behind this pay phone. As for your cry for someone to defend the SRS, to speak for this pay phone, well, I haven't noticed anyone speaking here today except you. Therefore, use the very good amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure that we have adopted. I see that's what brought you into line and you're talking about the subject. I think you will, indeed, go out to the voters who voted for you to defend your policy here in an argumentable manner and bring arguments to every legal proposal. That is why we have adopted these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I think now that you've realized that it's been good for both you and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15050	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, has the right to reply on the basis of mentioning the MP group in the presentation of MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15051	Really, I don't know, Mr. Rose, who dragged you by... It's always a possible replica, it's a discretionary assessment of the chairman, Mr. Ruzic. If you were hoping this would run out of answers, you were wrong. So, I'm glad you're thinking the same thing as "yellow company," but this isn't a duck school, and the SRS is not going to let this turn into a track school. And if you've been doing it for eight years, along with those who did what they did to you, how well you agreed to destroy democracy in Serbia, that's your business. It's our job to fight it. What methods we're going to use, that's our thing again, and, of course, we're not in a position to let you know in advance. But, of course, you do. Madam Chairman, you've led the public astray on purpose, I presume. This applause that was just heard was sent to the SRS MP. We welcomed Mr. Martinovic's presentation, and it was, indeed, extremely high quality, and I think he sent a series of good messages to the Serbian public, not to you. There are times when we applaud you. It's a sign of protest. So there are different applauses. This was a applause of support, commendation, and the one that you received while you discussed something, it was applause as a warning to you to say something that we don't want to hear, or that we don't want to see happening in this House. I'm asking you to keep your ears peeled so you can tell the difference between these applauses.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15052	This was an unequivocal round of applause to you. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him, MP Zoran Krasic. National MP Branko Ruzic, I'm sorry, the MP has a right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15053	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't want to argue with the distinguished Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Thank the chairman for using the discretionary right to give me the right to the replica, since I was mentioned in the previous presentation. I thank Gordani Pop-Lazic for the doctoring, and I don't think there's any more room for any controversy in this matter. I'm just stating the facts. Please don't waste time on controversy, talk about what the subject of the agenda is, because if we go back to that, to the previous speaker, who talked about some municipalities where coalitions collapse, so Zemun is mentioned, I'll say that you have a selective approach, so you don't mention the Leader. So don't throw yourself into words. I don't think it's necessary for us to do more, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, around here, at least I won't answer anything you say anymore. You feel free to say, I'm even asking for a round of applause from the protest, if it's not a waste. I didn't deserve it? Thank you. I'll stop here and thank you. The most important thing for me was for Serbia's public to find out that the SPS is nowhere initiating the collapse of the coalitions, and especially for KIM. That, please, take it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15054	I ask the MPs not to receive the speaker. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has the word, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, right to replication, personal mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15055	There's no selection when it comes to principle and when it comes to the SRS. Zemun was mentioned for winning 26 in 2004, out of 57 mandates, and after a four-year term, a successful, 28-term term, therefore increased by two mandates, and there were only 320 votes missing to be in power alone, without a coalition partner. You were in that first coalition with us, but why didn't you confirm what you were doing with us, so in this election on 11 May, you got at least one councilman? You've lost no councilman, Mr. Ruzic, and I believe that's exactly what your position, position and work, or your unhappiness, in this House has affected. Where you'll be after the next election, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15056	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 17 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a moment just to get back to international law, since this is about international law. Here's just a few words to remind ourselves of and to distract, and first to pay attention to what the state has concluded an international contract. What's international law? International law represents a synthesis of politics and rights, because when it is a synthesis of politics and rights, it is reflected in numerous examples in our country, in international criminal law, it should allow the right of policy to prevail. It's the other way around in Serbia. It's policy here against law. There are respected lawyers and lawyers here, and I believe they are not allowed to plead, especially from the coalition. They will not be heard about this, but they know that in Serbia, politics is above law, although we are sworn in international law, although we are seeking to join the EU. We are entering the European Union. How? We apply unilateral agreements, we release customs imports of goods produced in Serbia. This government has destroyed agriculture, destroyed the economy, which produces for its own purposes, and can also export products. In 2008, the government imported goods produced in Serbia worth more than 250m euros. What did they import? What's the government and those "zumbuli," what's "zumbuls," individual ministers, importing? They imported carrots, imported potatoes, imported cabbage, imported grapes, imported rabbit meat, ducks, horse, donkeys, and various other meats. They imported meat for processing, and you know what kind of meat is being imported from the EU. Import, first of all, junk, so I don't say garbage. Compared to the products in Serbia, it is, in my assessment, garbage, because there is no better and healthier food than it is produced in Serbia. That's the problem with this government. What did the government think of? Let's make it possible for the tycoons to import. They say to the citizens – they will be cheaper powdered milk and imported milk in a quantity of 300,000 tonnes. What are our individual agricultural producers doing? They're spilling milk. The government is not interested in healthy and high-quality milk, but in that waste that has been in coolants in the West for years and decades. We destroyed the farm. We're not, as far as the SRS are concerned. We are against such one-sided imports, opening borders, and let the villagers think now. Why can't agriculture be helped? Why aren't subsidies now? Why do you give that kind of money to the ministries? According to the Government Act, there are 25 ministries, but you have 111 other ministries. Do you know what kind of rodents they are? It eats everything alive. How will the Republic of Serbia survive? How are we going to fill in and secure the social sphere of citizens? We can't. Let this government now come to its senses, so let it say, we are reducing, from 25 to 10 ministries, as it is in EU countries. Great Russia has 16 ministries, and how many do we have? Sweden has 12 cars, and we have 400 cars in the government. What has the government done in its own context, above all, to evenly deploy the burden of this economic crisis? Nothing. The budget has been filled and this budget is now being spent, but no minister has said – we have to cut, we have to give up the budget by 50%. Let those 50% go for production, let them go for agriculture. Last year, 41 billion were spent on special services, and it could serve individual agricultural producers to buy 14,000 tractors and agricultural machines of various kinds. Why is it hard for farmers? No one's gonna help the farmers, no one's handing them out, but that's why farmers are big producers. They're just getting skins when it comes to various taxes and self-deliveries. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, have an obligation to pay attention, the SRS says the people must live better. You promised that the people would live better and help the people. There's nothing to help the people. Local elections are now scheduled in the municipality of Kovilj. I can tell you, in the previous elections, the ruling coalition gentlemen promised that citizens would not pay for electricity. When it was two years ago, he reached someone's heights of up to 500,000, and a million. It is said – there is not now one who has promised to pay the dinars to farmers, or individual consumers of electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, without agriculture, Serbia is a dead state. Let's turn to agriculture. Our industry is gone. The budget must be filled only from agriculture, and in agriculture to invest now. Tell Mladjan Dinkic, minister, where are the foreign reserves, where is 11 billion foreign exchange reserves? If only one billion were given to individual agricultural producers, it would be well-being and we could rebirth the country. Because if you give one billion to individual farmers to invest it in agricultural production, production will be three times higher, production for themselves, for the state and for the export. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture, and the other has nothing to do with it. What is promised to the workers, that the government will pay one day for cutting the week off, is a lie and a fraud. What about Kragujevac? They know the Kragujevac people. What about Fiat? What about "punta"? Our government is like "full", the EU is being tailored, and here it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-11-0.u15058	National MP, and I warn you that in eight minutes, as much as you have used, you have not spoken about the subject of the agenda and you have violated Article 103. The warning shall include the creation of a basis for giving notice during this session. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Given that it is 18 hours, I ask the MPs not to earn, which is, too, the basis for speaking measures, extremely unpopular. I really ask you to respect the National Assembly. For today we will finish our work and continue tomorrow, 12 March 2009, at 10 o'clock, and the debate will be held by MP Zoran Krasic in discussion on the details of the article 45. Thank you.
