ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15059	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Nenad Canak, Velimir Ilic, Milan Lapčević, Radojko Obradović, Cedomir Jovanovic, Ivan Andric, Prof. Dr. Zarko Korać, Slobodan Maras, Nenad Milić, Natasa Micic, Zoran Ostojić, Dr. Vesna Pešić, Judita Popović, Nenad Prokić, Dr. Nebojsa Rangelović and Kenan Hajdarevic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to attend: Mr Zlatko Petrovic, adviser to the Ministry of Justice, and Mrs Jasmina Benmansur, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government. I welcome them, and so does Mr. Homen. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (the sequel in particular) Mr Vladan Batić answered the word. Here you go. Gentlemen, in accordance with Article 235, Mr Vladan Batic has a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15060	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is March 12th. Today, it ends six years after the murder of Serbia's first democratic prime minister, after 60 years, Dr Zoran Djindjic. With that in mind, I'm asking for a notice and an explanation of V.D. Republika Srpska prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic and special prosecutor for organised crime Mirko Radisavljevic. When will the investigation begin against those who were inspirers, initiators, organisers, employers, financiers, instigators of the murder of Zoran Djindjic? When will the investigation begin with what is called the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder? Zoran Djindjic was a politician. His murder is a political murder. When it comes to political killings, it is always important to see who had the interest of no longer being on the political scene of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic. You know who had an interest. The answer is that there are apparently not enough elements to conduct an investigation. The elements are too much, but they cannot be watched in isolation on March 12th. Those who are accused and convicted, they only pulled the trigger. That's what I said six years ago on the stage of Zoran Djindjic. The others killed him, and we have to find out. Therefore, it cannot be seen isolated on March 12th, but must be seen as a process whose final stage and final epilogue was March 12th. It must come from the rebellion of the 'Red Berets', or before, from the persistent detention of the head of the state security of Milosevic's death squadron, Radet Markovic, who followed, listened to, filmed the leaders of DOS, destroyed the files, then moved to the rebellion of the 'Red Berets', to those who supported her, who understood her, encouraged her, approved her, and then to all those powerful media campaigns of the same politicians who were glad to hear that Zoran Djindjic was the greatest criminal and the greatest traitor, and not the sin to kill the greatest criminal and the greatest traitor, and then to go from the publicised and unproclaimed meetings of the people in power, the chiefs of cabinets, advisers, with murderers of the 'earn clan'. That's why I'm saying the evidence to launch the investigation has countless. That is why I repeat it and ask for an explanation today and I ask Mirko Radisavljevic and Slobodan Radovanovic to start doing their job. Serbia cannot have a future if its foundations will continue to be soaked with the blood of Zoran Djindjic, and his true murderers remain unpunished for his death. Such a Serbia has no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15061	The prosecution is obliged to give you an explanation in writing, no later than 15 days. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Markicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15062	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am asking you, respected presidents, for a few notices in these five minutes that the heads and deputies of the parliamentary groups are entitled to according to the new Rules of Procedure, so on Tuesdays and Thursdays. First, does any of the ruling coalition feel a commitment, either you, or a lady who is not here right now, so I would not like to mention her name, to react after a statement by the republican public prosecutor that there were no elements of the crime, so there was no hate speech in the New Serbia's speech? Has anyone who condemned Velimir Ilic here, in fact, rightly provoked religious and national hatred? I can testify to you that Velimir Ilic's house, in these months, has visited dozens of Bosniaks, that we have received dozens of letters and telegrams in which people have said that they disagreed with some statements here, some who wanted to abuse and misread what Mr Velimir Ilic said. I would like to warn that this payphone, in my humble opinion, should not be used for such things, there should be no interpretation of what someone has said clearly and loudly and what, I hope, the general public and all the citizens of Serbia, any religion and nations have, quite well understood – what Mr Velimir Ilic said. Also, I take the opportunity to tell all our members, all Serbian citizens who have been concerned about his health these days, to be calm and calm. He is recovering well and will soon be with us here, in the National Assembly. Secondly, the notice I want from you, President, is this. Can we Members of the People be informed of the course of work in the renovation of the House of the National Assembly? How much does it cost you? In what means of information was the tender, or advertisement for the performance of these works, and what is the name of the company that performs these works? He's throwing me a colleague. What's the crisis about? Let the President and those who have made that decision explain it politically. As far as I'm concerned, New Serbia's MPs, we've also had extraordinary conditions here, perhaps better, to work, than in the new hall, where we'll be in the next day. Third, the notice I want from you is next. Do you feel that you have disavowed the Assembly, humiliated and further destroyed its reputation by giving paid leave to a fellow MP who participates in the work of the Mad House of the Big Brother, or what is it called? Is that how, in front of the entire public of Serbia, you indirectly admitted that you were involved in the work of the 'great house'? I think you're obliged to give us a notice on these three questions. Does this mean that individual MPs can request paid or unpaid leave to attend, say, Pristina, the celebration of the day of independence of the so-called false state of Kosovo? Do we further undermine the reputation of such acts of this institution, and does this apply to all MPs? Is it because of their personal delicacies, their private exhibition, that is, because of their public appearance, that we should all suffer here and that we should all be sanctioned in addition to the citizens, all together? I am resolutely, on behalf of the Parliament Group of New Serbia, building on both that MP and your procedure, which you have given paid leave of absence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15063	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. On behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, I want a quick and successful recovery to Mr Ilic, and as for the need for anyone to apologize to him, it is a matter of the decision of the individual who wants to or does not want to do so. If it wasn't for the elements of the crime, the public was informed, and here you are, and you did it today, additionally, here. The works in the Assembly, that is, in the House of the National Assembly, of the way they were performed and of all the details, you will all be informed in writing by the Secretary of the Assembly within 15 days, as the Rules of Procedure foresees. The paid leave was approved by the Administrative Board. Each of the MPs, especially those who are on permanent duty here, has the right to work in a working relationship to seek unpaid or paid leave. In this case, Mr. Canak requested an unpaid leave and the administrative board's decision was positive. Mr. Nikolic wants a word. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Nikolich, one moment. I ask the MPs of the SRS not to interfere with Mr Nikolic as he speaks. There will be measures. You know that's what the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15064	In your answer, you encouraged me to ask another question. Make it first, and it's not the most important. You have to answer me – when was this session of the Administrative Committee at which Mr. Nenad Canak requested a paid leave? Since I have attended the last meetings of the Administrative Board and have not made such a decision, please, if someone has misinformed you to seek the right information, and if you have thought of this today, that you do not deceive us, because Nenad Canak will have no problem, even if he loses a permanent working relationship. As soon as he gets out of that crazy guy, he can apply to be admitted into a working relationship and start a working relationship again, so you don't have to justify him. I'm his rank enough to talk about which he's targeting the population with his behavior. I have a problem, which probably also has representatives of other opposition parliamentary groups – that I respect your rules of procedure, by asking you these questions. Since it's the only possibility of finding out from you, even wrongly, I'm acting in accordance with your new amendments to the Rules of Procedure. I only hope that one day a strong and powerful assembly majority will be created that will not limit the rights of the opposition MPs and will return the Rules of Procedure – somewhere on the level of the 'dictator regime of Slobodan Milosevic', in 1991, for example, when one MP here spoke for three or four days without interruptions and was neither warned nor interrupted. At that time, even fellow MPs were not engaged in the Kujun trade in the O.R., but were sitting there listening to what their colleagues were saying. I repeat the question to you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, when will the Republic of Serbia National Assembly session be the Statute of Vojvodina on the agenda? I believe there is no reason at all, after all that has been done in Vojvodina, after all that has been decided in the Vojvodina Assembly, that we, too, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, do not plead. I don't think you can, by this delay, by your kind of pressure and blackmail, create the required majority to be voted here. That is why I am now telling you that those who have declared themselves against this statute certainly cannot change their minds, and there are parties from the ruling coalition, who are serious about this state. They want all the best for her. They don't want her to be torn, they don't want her to be shared, they don't want divisions and fights in this Serbia of ours. So I ask you, because I think you have a very similar view of Parliament's Group 'Forward Serbia', to come to the agenda, to clarify it once finally and to continue to do, as we have done so far in a single Serbia, which has its two autonomys – one in which it can exercise its power, and the other, which it has left to the international community until some better and happier times. The second point is the disputed withdrawal, or second question is the disputed withdrawal of the law on the prohibition of discrimination. Give us at least a heads-up on what's going on, and why isn't that law on the agenda? Why don't you insist on stopping this cacophony, I'd say, opponent of opposing the law, this offensive of association groups who would like to dominate the people God created about his character? So if you want advice, don't put any problems aside. Transfer it to our MPs, to the Assembly, or transfer it to discuss it here. The people sent us all to discuss it. Do not allow the Government of the Republic of Serbia to prepare the law for a year and then, in just one day, withdraw it from the procedure, so that, with cosmetic changes, they say, they return it to the procedure again. He has caused a lot of public interest in this law and I think you should ensure, however possible, that it is urgently on the agenda, and, as a believing woman, you have seen the attitude of all churches that act and preach in Serbia, especially morals, and I hope you will vote that way. I'm only asking for ten seconds. As we are informed on the Administrative Board, further work of the National Assembly of the Republic is at stake because of the lack of funding from the budget for the work of the National Assembly, so please protect the autonomy of the National Assembly. We can't depend on the government, on the finance minister, on the budget. Our work must not be stopped...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15065	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15066	So you're afraid of the answer. Thank you. (At the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, SRS MPs were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15067	Your first question was about the Statute of the Vojvodina. As you know, the Statute of Vojvodina is in the assembly procedure, and what you and the public are informed about, that statute should be in line with the law on jurisdiction that is currently at stake, the government is doing it. It will be delivered and these two acts will be held at the same session as the subject of our work. As for the law on the prevention of discrimination, tomorrow's cabinet session will definitely determine the text and we will have it next week as a part of the agenda. So, we're going to work, we're going to argue, and we're going to get to the bottom of this law. As for financial resources, I have information that money will be provided today for everything that has not been settled in the previous period. As for Mr. Chanka, I sent his request to the Management Board, and he brings an individual act on this. You will surely be informed of all details relating to the matter. Your finding is quite correct, that someone in a permanent working relationship has the right to an unpaid leave. He did not state the reasons why he sought leave, we know these reasons after the moment of submission of his request. It's his personal right. Mr. Milos Aligrudic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15068	I have a question for you, and I'll formulate it in the end. First of all, let me give one a little bit of a wider introduction. So yesterday was the first time we had a chance to face a new member of 143. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We faced your arrogance during the conduct of this Rules of Procedure. We've faced an extremely arbitral interpretation of what's written here, which, in the end, is no wonder, given that it's extremely ill-written. The way the ruling coalition has approached the amendments of the Rules of Procedure, regardless of the motives, I find scandalous. We had a commission working on it. It was supposed to be the product of most MPs' agreement. I am not saying that it must always be everyone, but at least the vast majority, much larger than the ruling majority in Parliament, in order to have a text that does not cause any disputes. What's fast, it's short, and it turns out, so what you wrote doesn't mean anything. In doubt what to do and how to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you started, as I said, arbitrarily to interpret. You have agreed on the meaning of certain terms and sentences used in Article 143. We tried to distract you that it can be interpreted in different ways, but yours is not denied. So you came up with the next idea, genius, to first combine the points in the discussion of details, even though you have no basis for it, because in the attitude of Article 1 143, what it says doesn't mean at all. This is about the total duration of the debate, and there is no basis for joining dots in particular. The best way to prove it, that it's even essentially impossible, was the situation where you've defined that the combined points in detail are considered in particular. Now, after this introduction, I will deliberately tie him to the debate in particular, and I will ask a parliamentary question to you, which I will eventually formulate, see that this has to do with it, because we will soon start to discuss further in detail, because it is a mistake to see that you deliberately share the debate on certain points. What's the product of that? The product of this is that we, in fact, all the points of the agenda, when it comes to amendments, are considered in particular, with the time possible for the amendments to be discussed by these points being shortened, divided into three segments. So we had three points of the agenda, a combined debate in the principle of all three laws of five hours, and now it's five hours of debate on these three points in particular, but each is being considered separately. In the matter of principle, there is no such rule. The debate in principle serves to consider the points together, precisely because of their conditionality and connection, as set out in Article 142. This is where we consider them specifically. It is not in the nature of the debate on amendments to the merger points. How can we combine the debate points in particular when it comes to amendments to concrete draft laws? It's the opposite of brains. Finally, through a practical solution, through what you are currently doing in Parliament in the discussion of details, that this merger is impossible. I repeat, the only result of this merger is a total reduction in the debate. Anyway, the debate has been jagged, and this is one of the shortest discussions on amendments in the national parliaments of Europe, what you have now done. Don't call on parliamentary parliaments, conglomerations of national parliaments, because there are rules quite different. It's natural for discussions to last for a while. In national parliaments, there is no scandal like this, that you adopted. Now that's not enough for you, so you can, when you combine the dots in principle, you normally do it extremely arbitrarily as the ruling majority, to connect as many dots as you want, no matter what. We referred you to this breach of the Rules of Procedure at the very beginning. So you can produce that discussion in particular, practically, and no. So my question to you is, because you have announced this before, you and some people from the ruling coalition here, in the Serbian Parliament, you are not so publicly so, although in some newspapers it has appeared – do you think, given the jurisdiction of the Administrative Committee, that this committee should, at least, be ambushed, that the ambiguities and contradictions in these views that you adopted, these new members of the Rules of Procedure, consider and tell some court how they apply? Of course, until the new Rules of Procedure, because what you've done is a scandal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15069	Thank you. The Management Board shall monitor the application of this Rules of Procedure, consider and make proposals for its amendments and additions and give an opinion to the National Assembly, on its request, on the application of the individual provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So I think you can, and you need to apply Article 73, and that's his last attitude. I will personally suggest to the Assembly that we define ourselves to ask that the Administrative Committee explain to us something that we discussed on several occasions yesterday, with a tendency of understanding or misunderstanding, unintentional or deliberate. The word is Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15070	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity, on the basis of the opportunity given to me by the Rules of Procedure, on this day, Thursday, to ask a question before the beginning of the session, better said, to give a proposal to the speaker of the Assembly, given that it received a proposal from the SRS Parliamentary Group to schedule a session at which MPs could ask questions to certain ministers on the subject – the consequences of Serbia's state co-operation with The Hague tribunal. As the 24th and anniversary of NATO bombing approaches, the SRS proposal is to organise that session, if possible, on that day, if you can't do it sooner, but on that day it would be very symbolic, it seems to me, and good for all of us, in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. In this way, we would show those who bombed us under the pretext that this is a humanitarian disaster in KIM, that it is a threat to Albanian animals, that Kosovo and Metohija are in part of the state of Serbia, that humanitarian disaster is happening in front of our eyes and that victims are, above all, non-Albanian animals, all those who have had the strength to fly away for years of trouble and live in impossible conditions, where their life is constantly hanging by the end, to be without electricity for days, without the elemental means of life. The state has not shown any particular concern, or has not responded to all the challenges faced by it in these difficult times, when Eulex has moved and when we do not have any opportunity to react through the state authorities to events in the KIM territory itself, but also the foreign policy that we are conducting and the statements that our state officials have made on this issue, all that they have done to get into this situation, is something that can be the subject of discussion at that session. Remember that after the bombing, the delivery of our citizens to The Hague tribunal was launched, starting with former SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic, who was kidnapped and sent to The Hague, that in the last ten days he had been sentenced and sentenced to the highest officials of this country from the police, military and political summit, who received huge prison sentences, which should represent the verdict that Milosevic would likely have been given in any case to remain alive and that we would have to show more statehood, more responsibility, more maturity, given this historic moment in which the state of Serbia is located, and that would also be an incentive to those who remained at KIM. In this way, we would send a message to both the Western countries, especially the United States and the Hague tribunal, that we would not allow them to be apportioned in this way for all that they have done since 24 March and until the end of the aggression in those 78 days of 1999. The consequences of this aggression, in addition to having limited sovereignty in one part of our territory, or almost nothing at all, are also the many other consequences that our citizens suffer. The other day, Mr. Paja Momchilov was talking about the health effects, and it certainly wasn't from fat cakes, but from those bombs with the impoverished uranium. I'm making you a suggestion. We could show maturity, dignity and hold that session in the area of KiM, but it's up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15071	Thank you. Your MP group, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, has submitted a neat proposal to me regarding the session on the topic at hand. The proposal was forwarded to MPs of the National Assembly and to the relevant ministers and within the time period, which is a month, we will hold one such session, it is a business obligation. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 45, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 46, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarević, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 46 of the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Your government has decided to bring this area to the European Union's purposes, which will fall apart very quickly. One part of the Code of Criminal Procedure is unacceptable. They were telling my colleagues about the details of this separation. Today, it is already seen that members of the European Union, such as Germany, France and others, condition Serbia daily in order to bring us in with their ultimate goals. Haven't we felt that in past wars and crises, that they're taking us away, that we're giving them our citizens, that we've given them a complete military, police and political summit of Serbia? That is what they have condemned and told us – never defend your country again, because it is not yours, but ours. I guess you saw that. What kind of international legal aid is this? Not at all. Everything they wanted, we did -- destroyed the economy, destroyed the army, destroyed the police, the judiciary, the education. That's why we're Serbian radicals against this law, and you can see from the attached that we've submitted 104 amendments. That tells you enough about everything. No one, not even a public prosecutor, is obliged to serve as a foreign servant in Serbia and to carry out other people's duties. Unfortunately, there are many in Serbia today. It would be pointless for a public prosecutor to take on criminal prosecution at the request of another state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15073	Thank you, Mr. Sluzzarevich. If you want, you can continue within the time frame, you have nine minutes and 30 seconds as a Parliament group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15074	Notwithstanding the rightfulness of the decision made in criminal proceedings, the public prosecutor, in the event that he receives such a request, should not act, but should also return the application to the State of Prayer, without any involvement in the procedure. All state authorities in the Republic of Serbia must adhere to the principles of legality in international criminal law, the principles of legitimacy and the principles of individual, subjective responsibility of international contracts and conventions. All of what we have stated is intended to protect our judicial and judicial system. However, we always run ahead of someone's wishes and promises. I hope that comes to an end, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15075	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are talking about an amendment to Article 47. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters. I suggested that this member be deleted. Why? Because this matter has already been defined in chapters 32 and 33 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In this way, we would introduce chaos, introduce another source of law, confuse the citizens, confuse the state's organs. There's no need to do that, no need for this matter to be left in the Code of Criminal Procedure, we get out of it, and we move it somewhere else. I must agree with the government's representatives that this is indeed the highest standards of the EU; it is not the highest standards of Europe, but it is the EU. I would remind you of the Lisbon Agreement and the events that took place at the time. In fact, it is an EU agreement which, when drawn up, has received a version of eight and a half thousand more words. By order of Sarkozy, they had to reduce so many sides and, imagine miracles, they reduced the font. It was not a problem that no one could read the agreement, which was reduced by some 62 parties, the problem was that they decided afterwards that the integrated version of the Lisbon Agreement would never be published. The Lisbon Agreement makes up about 300 pages of the amendment on 3,000 pages of the previous agreement. No one can read that agreement alive. What's this about? You can read the amendment, but you can't read what it refers to. In the European Parliament, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided to publish an integrated version. They never did that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15077	Anyone else want to talk about Mr Alexic's amendment? (No) On Article 48, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 48. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, which reads "Article 48 is deleted". Article 48 refers to the requirements for detention before the application of the application, within the meaning of point 3 of the proposed law – Downloading and giving rise to criminal prosecution. The member himself is inappropriate, confused and completely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This applies in particular to the position of the 1st member, which reads: "In urgent cases, the competent authority of the requesting State may apply for detention prior to the application of the application". It is obvious that the bill is motivated by the daily political needs of Boris Tadic's regime, because it is necessary to arrest our citizens, as in Kovacevic's case, because it has occurred to Hilary Clinton, who, of course, protects a prominent American family whose member caused the incident under the fact of drugs and alcohol. Who will protect the interests of the workers who have been deceived and robbed in the privatisation process? Boris Tadic protects a member of an American family, and he does not think of protecting the workers of the Tourist and Restaurant Company "Freedom" from the League, which was kidnapped and robbed by Belgrade Power Plants, based on forged documents. Boris Tadic is protecting the drug user, and he will not protect the interests of Uba's workers. I can only show for these 15 seconds how it was done. In 2004, the brokerage house concluded a contract with a man; "The Dark One" Ub thanked that man for the shares, and that man died a year earlier. I don't know who they could close the deal with.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15079	Mr. Zoran Krasic. The SRS has eight and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15080	Of course, I'm going to use these eight minutes so that citizens can understand what the amendments are really about, because this democratic Rules of Procedure and in particular the debate is no different than when it comes to voting. Everyone's voting, and no one knows what they're voting for. Now amendments are being discussed, and no one knows what the amendment is like. You can see how much these people in the majority make. What was violated in this bill? They swear that no citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, will be delivered to a foreign court. The second principle, which also states, is that in all the provisions of this law it implements something that can be said to be mutual. The third principle is that in this international legal aid in criminal matters, in several provisions of this bill, it is seen that it does not only apply to criminal matter, but also to something a little wider; it comes forward, first of all, to the Ministry of Justice, after the judicial authorities have completed some work, first of all, to determine whether the conditions are met. Then the question arises: is it possible that there was no international legal aid institute in Serbia so far? There was. Several specific parts of the Code of Criminal Procedure regulate that matter. However, the promoter does not want to do this, to specify, above all, some of the provisions, the authority of the competent authorities. When I say, the authorities, I mean the prosecution, and the police, and the court. No, it's going with a special law to corn. A white Schengen leaf can't do without a law like this. To be more specific, if the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure were to be added, I don't know why it would be a distraction for that white Schengen list of yours. There's nothing from that white Schengen list. That's what you should know. Two years ago, a readmission agreement was signed. The basis of this agreement is the definition of the EU states, which, about like this -- will be liberalised visa regime towards those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have money, who can come and who can spend their money, and all that, in some ways, has gone to one of those EU countries, and what has no money, will return to Serbia. They finance the return of our money, never finance their money, just as the Eulex is funding our money. On what grounds? Customs law has been passed, our market has been opened, their goods entering at dumping prices, destroying our production, and the difference that is reportedly being made with them serves to finance the Eulex, or occupation of part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As you can see, there's no story of a white Schengen list, no story of an international exchange of students, but it all comes down to naked interest and money. Money, money, money. They find one crew, install such power, give them five-six thousand euros a month, they put them in their pocket, and then they play some power here. Actors. They pretend to be the government, to implement some policy, to have this Euro-Atlantic trajectory, except they don't drown in the Atlantic Ocean, and they're preparing the ground to double-cross us in some elections. Sometimes it's a white Schengen visa, so it can travel nicely, and then again those Youth ads about buying cars, buying apartments, from 2001, and again the crisis headquarters, which are going to fall into companies that no longer exist, and then the dinar on the list of stable currencies, will once again transform the banking system that's reliable, we're having no money, but the banks are serving to launder criminal money, because it can't be washed in Germany, and then again our foreign reserves will be in the US central bank, in the English bank, in the German bank, with some meaningless interest, as a means of security and guarantee that if Serbia doesn't pay you back the loans, they can pick up our money there, and you, citizens, be calm, blessed in ignorance, in media manipulation, in your alleged struggles for your business, which burns you from these days. Of course, we are opposition to one such authority. Of course, the opposition can't be heard, for a few more months, and there won't be a transmission, then we'll have to go to the streets. This year will be difficult to eat, which is why it takes to break the tributaries, for farming, because tomatoes are growing well with the tributary. Some other things require a little more serious objects. In a month's time, for the elemental right to live, you'll all have to come to Belgrade, but not in front of this building, but in Germany. There's also a promise for Fiat, there's a promise for Bor, there's a promise to plant peanuts, to make furniture, there's a solution to that question Jojic's been talking about for six months -- that someone's picked up a lease and took some land. You don't pay the rent. There's an answer to all your questions and all your expectations. It's a place where you need to ask for the fulfillment of your promises. You see for yourself, Boris Tadic prefers to flee to the king of Spain rather than talk to those across the street who strike for four months. They're demonstrating people. They're looking for some basic right, no one supports them. It means, citizens, that tomorrow, when you're in that situation, there will be no one to support you either. Why? It's all relativized in Serbia. That's what the media is for. To wash someone's conscience, to calm someone's conscience, to say, it could be worse. Could there be anything worse than when the Democrats are in power? Eight years of agony. Make a list of what happened on October 25, 2000 and make a list of what is today, so you see what is the minus in life, in economy, in finance. Of course we can't vote for this law. Vlajko Stojiljkovic committed suicide because of someone similar and did not want a suicide note to give to the SPS people, but to Filip Stojanovic of the SRS. He knew Vlajko Stojljkovic where he fell and the SPS and what it means when those who had a fight at the 8th session were reconciled.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15081	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 49, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as most MPs of the SRS, my amendment reads that this member is being deleted. There is so little time in this dictatorial Rules of Procedure for explaining the amendments that it was the simplest, which in translation would mean that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. It will neither bring us closer to European integration nor allow us to enter the white Schengen list faster. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I wasn't in the O.R. in the afternoon session last night. I was in my Ojaks municipality, where there's a bit of a problem when it comes to your party, because it's been ordered by the SPS to leave the coalition with the SRS. Why do I tell you this, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic? Because Mr. Ruzic said last night that the SPS didn't put pressure on any municipal boards, which is not true. Dusan Bajatovic ordered the municipal board of the SPS to step out of the coalition with the SRS, otherwise Odzaci municipality will not get a single dinar from the province's budget. I ask you, should the citizens of Odjak municipality depend on the will of Bojan Pajtic to selectively spend the AP Vojvodina budget? I sincerely hope, since the situation at Odzak is currently at 14:14, that the PUPS Municipal Committee, which has with the SRS exceptional co-operation, will get free hands to choose its coalition partner. I also sincerely hope that the DSS will enter into talks with the SRS and form a national coalition and not allow the dictatorship of Boris Tadic to enter every municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15083	Mr. Flea, you haven't talked about the issue on the agenda. I'm warning you about that. As far as the SPS criticism is concerned, I assume you're considering a proposed coalition with the "Forward Serbia" party, and that's why you're now attacking other political opponents, i.e. SPS. I don't think that's good for you, but it's not a subject, of course. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to the proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, I have suggested that Article 51 of that law be deleted, which refers to assumptions for criminal prosecution. I have already pointed out that international legal aid in criminal matters in our legal system is regulated by the provisions of Chapter 32, by the procedure for providing international legal assistance within the framework of the CAP, and by the provisions of Chapter 33, which covers the procedure for issuing accused and convicted persons. International legal aid in criminal matters has also been regulated by the provisions of ratified international conventions and bilateral agreements between Serbia and individual states. In addition, the legislator, unmistakably copying hundreds and hundreds of norms that lead to EU law, introduces another source for international legal aid in criminal matters. Instead of creating codified legislation in the area of criminal-processing law, we are introducing particularism and disorder into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Instead of the Serbian government respecting our constitutional and legislative tradition, which has led to the origin since the beginning of the 13th century and the "Laws" of the Holy Sava, our first constitutional law, the regime of Boris Tadic, with the simple prescription of EU rules, creates chaos in our legal system to prevent a regulated legal system from giving way to disorder and particularism. I invite you to accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15085	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15086	Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters. I proposed that Article 52 of the Law be deleted, which reads: "The decision to initiate the criminal proceedings is brought by: 1) a public prosecutor, before the criminal proceedings are initiated; 2) an investigative judge, on a proposal by the public prosecutor, until the trial was brought to an end; 3) an unsuspecting majority, in the opinion of the public prosecutor, by the beginning of the main investigation; 4) a larger one, in the opinion of the public prosecutor, until the main investigation was completed. Against the 1st point 1 solution, the suspect first has to declare the complaint directly to the senior prosecutor, within three days. The defendant and the public prosecutor have the right to appeal directly to the higher court, within three days, against the solution referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 of Article 1 of this Article." First of all, I want to draw your attention to the quote point 3 which introduces the term "excessively larger." In our right, however, we use the term "out-of-law bigger," which is correct. Why does someone introduce new terminology into this bill? Perhaps because she reminds so much of the terms used by the infamous in The Hague. They have a pre-quick and a search party. Furthermore, as is known, international legal aid in criminal matters is regulated by the provisions of Chapter 32 – Procedure for providing international legal assistance, within the framework of the CAP, and the provisions of Chapter 33 – Procedure for issuing defendants and suspects, of the same code. International legal aid in criminal matters is regulated by the provisions of ratified international conventions. Now the legislator introduces another copy of international legal aid in criminal matters. Instead of getting codified legislation in this important area, the area of criminal-processing law, we are introducing particularism and chaos into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. To prove that we are a country where order is respected, and it rejects chaos, I urge you to accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15087	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 53, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I understand the intensities of this government well, we will enter the EU, provided we pull out and atomize our legal system. We already have one mess in criminal law. There are a whole series of laws that regulate this matter, and the government tells us that with this atomisation we should move on, because this is a condition for Serbia's faster accession to the EU. If that is the case, and I have no reason to doubt this fair and responsible government, which has provided the citizens of Serbia with such a blessing and which has even managed to turn the global economic crisis to its advantage and that the global economic crisis in all countries of the world is causing adverse consequences, only in Serbia, thanks to the honest men and experts in this government, will bring some good consequences. When the government says that the atomisation of the legal system is a condition for faster EU accession, I support and propose to Mr. Home and Minister of Justice, who is not here at the moment, to begin preparations for the adoption of law on criminal charges, the law on detention, the law on delivery in criminal proceedings, the law on appeal, the law on the protection of lawfulness, etc., so that this area is really governed by thousands of different laws. The more laws we have, the worse these laws are, the less harmonised they are, the more Serbia is likely to step into the EU. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15089	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15090	Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed eradicating Article 54, and now I propose to withdraw from the bill's procedure, because I believe it does not properly cover the problem of providing legal assistance to Serbian citizens who are being prosecuted abroad. This is particularly important because the provision of legal assistance is often selective, and we have examples that depend on the political likeness of the accused. I'll name the Vojislav Seselj case. The indictment against Vojislav Seselj, a Serbian citizen, was ordered by the Serbian prime minister. I remind you of a statement by Carla del Ponte – Zoran Djindjic told me – take Seselj and do not return him to Serbia. The next indictment against Vojislav Seselj was written in Belgrade. The state of Serbia has done absolutely nothing about the fact that its citizen, Vojislav Seselj, spent five years in the detention of The Hague tribunal without trial. The state of Serbia has not provided absolutely any legal assistance to its citizen Vojislav Seselj, has not provided him with any witnesses, but has therefore forced several of its citizens to go to The Hague and testify against Vojislav Seselj. In the end, the state of Serbia is doing absolutely nothing about this latest terror of The Hague tribunal towards Vojislav Seselj, in the form of a court trial for contempt of the court. Imagine, Vojislav Seselj does not respect The Hague tribunal. The Hague tribunal has accused all Serbian of being accused, marked 920 years in prison for Serbs, and freed Ramush Haradinaj and Naser Oric. The same UN tribunal has been in custody for six years, without any basis, against the law, and that Vojislav Seselj does not respect The Hague tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15091	Thank you, Mr. Maric. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 55, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15092	Dear citizens, since we've been cut short for two minutes to explain the amendment, I think, like all MPs of the SRS and the opposition, that it's not right. First of all, I want to say that I consider working in Parliament unsupervised and I don't know how far this will lead, if all amendments to the SRS and priorities refuse. Sometimes I think these amendments don't even read, because there are so many amendments that should be accepted, so that's the one I'm going to explain now. I remain in full view of the content of this amendment to Article 55, with particular emphasis on what I can say in these two minutes, that's the point, that citizens understand what it is, that I don't read everything that stands in the light of this amendment. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is not possible for anyone to be detained before delivering a neat and complete application and guarantee of the country to pray, or to a competent court. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, detention can only be ordered by the court, and this is normised in Article 30(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15093	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 57, the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 59, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. He doesn't want a word. You don't have a word. Yesterday you were told a measure of taking words. It should've been just to take you away, as a warning, but you kept going. Look at the stenogram. On Article 60, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 60. The proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters and proposed eradicating it, as the SRS believes that a wider legal area, such as the proposed law, is being broken down into several small continents and a special law is being passed for each of these continents. The ruling coalition's extremely unreasonable behaviour breaks the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and the unity of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Instead of correcting or modifying the Code of Criminal Procedure, you have approached the innovation of the system through this law. In view of all of this, the SRS considers it unacceptable to break up the legal system and that this proposal is harmful, so it proposes to delete Article 60, as well as to withdraw from the procedure of the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15095	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 61, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 62, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15096	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted the amendment to Article 68. The bill's proposal and the reasoning of the legislator states that the amendment cannot be accepted because it is reportedly a condition for prevention in the area of international crime. However, it is said in the light of the law that it is adopted by an emergency procedure, as it is reportedly a necessary condition in the EU and Brussels accession process. So the government has not agreed on what is the priority in this case, Brussels, or crime prevention. We of the SRS think that these explanations are incorrect and that they hide the real reason for adopting this law, because right now, I'm going to remind you, Ollie Rehn, 2. 02. In 2009, he said Serbia should not apply for the EU. Therefore, the urgency of the EU accession procedure is not in practice, even in the announcement of a bureaucrat from Brussels. On the other hand, according to the UN Anti-crime Bureau, the level of crime in the Balkans is the same, or even, in some cases, lower than in Western Europe. Therefore, even this reason cannot be cited as a reason for the urgency of the procedure. The real reason is, apparently, avoiding the debate on the economic crisis and the devastating economic conditions of the IMF, which Mr Jager, head of the IMF Mission for Serbia, made public in yesterday's newspaper, even though these conditions were rejected by Ukraine, which Mr Homen, as an expert on Ukraine, certainly knows. In addition, it is also known in Russia, according to the book Orange Network, which deals with the 2004 anti-Russian revolution in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15097	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 63, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Vukovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 63, with a proposal to delete it. As you can see, the government has given the same explanation for all the amendments we have submitted, from first to this, I suppose for the next, why they are rejected. International legal aid, in addition to criminal justice, includes foreign affairs, internal affairs, state administrations and the like. The legislator has chosen the wrong path in legal regulation, opting for partial regulation of such wide-ranging legal matter. Political pressures suffered by the current authority by its mentors (The Hague process, the "Kovačević case" and the like), cannot be a valid basis to justify the failures that appear in the legal framework. The Serbian Radical Party considers it necessary to implement and comply with the provisions of the Code on Criminal Procedure and to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act, the provisions of the law in the field of justice, international and bilateral agreements, as well as other legal regulations in this area, and therefore is proposed to delete this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15099	Thank you, Mr. Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? I assume you'd like to explain. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to convince the ruling majority MPs to accept this amendment, because it is extremely constructive, however, when I looked at this side, so they lacked another 120, so that they would have 126 and that they could accept this amendment. That's why I'm going to convince you from the opposition parties to vote on this amendment in voting day. In fact, only if the amendments were passed, both mine and all the amendments of the SRS, this law would be the best law. All amendments to the SRS are simple – deleted. The reason is very simple. The law is inadmissible, inadmissible, something that makes our eyes dirty, saying it's European law; it's not even that. So I propose that the government finally deliver a list of all the European laws, all the laws that Europe requires, to allow us to wipe our legs on the mat and knock on the door of Europe to receive us. This way, you drag everything and everything, in shape – it's European law and it's necessary. This law, as well as many laws that you have passed, are laws for closets, laws for shelves, laws for the working table of ministers, that tomorrow, when you leave the ministerial office, you boast and say – here, I passed this law. Anything you need from a criminal district can and should only be in two laws, a criminal law and a Code of Criminal Procedure. What happens if in the woods of the law you pass two laws whose provisions are diametrically opposite? Who will arrange, who will prove, who will make the decision that is more important and the provision of what law should be passed? You bring judges, prosecutors and everyone else into a situation that, looking at two laws, they don't know what law to apply. I therefore propose that all amendments submitted by the SRS MPs be adopted and then it will be one of the best laws, even European law. Thank you, and I'm sorry for this overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15101	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 65, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 65, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15102	Respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group on Article 65(2), I felt it would be complete to replace the six-month deadline with a three-month deadline. I think it's more favourable and I'm not satisfied with the explanation the government gave. First of all, the government calls for the costs of the procedure, that it is extremely expensive if the transfer of convicted persons is carried out and it is mentioned that the minimum penalty of four months is in those cases. However, punishment can also be much greater and I believe that citizens have the right to be released at any moment, and at least three months before the sentence expires, i.e. to move to the state of Serbia, if they want to endure the sentence. I don't see why this amendment was rejected when, in my opinion, it's possible to accept something like this, for the reasons I've stated in my explanation. It is extremely difficult in this period of time, although I will take advantage of the possibility of longer exposure, say and accept these views of the government. Not everything can be undermined under the cost of proceedings, there are basic rights that have a convicted person who wants to move to the state of penalties, to meet him. Therefore, the State, above all, must protect its citizens and such a single request should not be refused because of the costs of the procedure. It is not such a common situation, but the government did not accept, although this amendment was expected to be accepted. (President: Mr. Spasojevic, your time for the amendment is up, but you have ten minutes and eight seconds left, go on. I will use the time, Madam President, to ask at this time and some questions that are extremely important for the functioning of this Parliament. Madam President, as a member of the Working Party for the Making of Laws on the National Assembly and Rules of Procedure, I must express my great dissatisfaction with the constitutional obligation to pass laws on the National Assembly. The task force completely discontinued work even before the New Year's, and the Working Group for the construction of the new Rules of Procedure ended the work. Why is that? Is the change of these few members, practically, a verdict here, and that Rules of Procedure is now the Holy Scriptures? What does it mean now, that you have signed that MPs from different parties here can participate in the work, that there is no Working Group, and that there is no law on the National Assembly, and within 30 days, and the adoption of a new Rules of Procedure? It seems to me that you have achieved your goal. The task force, absolutely, did not participate in the amendments to this Rules of Procedure, these members. It is true that Parliament has accepted this, but, practically, beyond the Working Group, beyond any agreement and this is legal violence in the National Assembly. What has been done to explain the amendments for two minutes is something that does not exist in any country in Europe, in any parliament. This is something that will surely be reconsidered one day – who did it, who participated in the adoption of such rules, procedures, past the Working Group and beyond any basis. I will remind you once again, there must be a law on the National Assembly, and then, within 30 days, and a new Rules of Procedure. The deadlines have long been broken, Madam President. I must tell you that you are in violation of the RS Constitution which clearly predicts that a law must be passed on to the National Assembly. Since the minister is not here, of course, there is the Secretary of State, I will use this to warn you that the High Council of the Judiciary is not working, that a new law on courts has to be applied since the new year, what we have passed in the National Assembly this fall. It's a complete mess, Mr. Secretary of State, in court. We're currently in V.D. The state of the Supreme Court, the prosecutor, certain courts in Nis and Kragujevac are in V.D. condition. There's a lot of concern in other district, county and municipal courts, total uncertainty about re-election of judges, and I don't think that's good. We're passing some laws here, under the cover of being in Europe, but we haven't arranged our legal state, and don't think that in about five or six months you'll be able to do all that. I'm absolutely sure, here, in March, I'm telling you, that in the fall, we're going to extend all these laws, or their application, because we're not going to be able, as we haven't been able to do with civil servants in our position. I'm telling you again, there's no respect for competitions with civil servants, because people are being placed on the party line, and I'm afraid that's what you're going to do with the courts. So here I am well-intentioned. I'd like to point out to you, to recommend that you move urgently into the realization of what the law we've brought here binds us to. What is trying to do with this next law, where lawyers put themselves in a very ungrateful role, I ask you to take care of it, because lawyers have their discretionary right to defend themselves, a discretionary right, which protects the parties from something in law, and when it comes to defence, and when it comes to what you're trying to do, yes, if it's a contract, practically, we need to investigate the origin of the property, which is totally unacceptable. I think legal action must be protected. Just as lawyers, or lawyers in Serbia, are bound by the Code of Law, so I ask the State to take care of the relationship with lawyers, above all, when it comes to laws. Once again, I remind you that the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has submitted this amendment in order to be accepted. I urge you to accept this amendment, however, because it is good for the parties. Therefore, I cannot accept that you have so lightly, under the cover of the costs of the procedure, rejected this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15103	I thank you, Mr. Spasojevic, especially for the suggestions regarding respect for our constitutional obligation to pass the Law on the Assembly as soon as possible, from which a new Rules of Procedure will arise. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Do you, Mr. Lightning, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15104	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment has not been accepted by the Serbian Government, with the same explanation as for my previous amendment, so I will not read this argument, but I will say something else about the government's reasoning. Serbian citizens should know that this is about one legal terror, legal violence and blind acceptance and copying of all Western quasi-values. But more importantly, Serbian citizens need to know that the state can no longer provide them with either a cheap doctor, a cheap teacher, or cheap electricity, or cheap water, or anything else, even if they remained unemployed in the event of some of the mafia privatisations. Ulof Palme, in his book The Swedish Model, says that there is nothing more to fear from unemployment than war and natural disasters. You know, Serbian citizens, bad shepherds are a disaster for the herd. It is said that it is better for a lion to lead the sheep than for a sheep to walk in front of the lions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15105	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15106	Ladies and gentlemen, Ms. Djukic-Dejanovic, Mr. Homen, rare cases are that, due to a guilty verdict, Serbian citizens are holding or moving to Serbia. If we're talking about this, I have to remind you that there are cases that have been politically motivated, because of the fact that some people here, from Serbia, have been convicted in some Western European countries, allegedly, because of the crimes they have committed, opposing the terror and unscrupulous nature of the Albanian mafia and what it did in the early 1990s, or at the end of the 1980s, and not since the 5th of October, in those first days of your rule, as far as we can see, nor today, you recognize the danger. You do not see what the Western European countries see now, above all, Germany, Italy -- that it is the most unscrupulous and most organised terrorist gang, with concrete political goals, in the role of kidnapping the southern Serbian province, KIM. Therefore, the position in the next article itself is pointless because of the fact that such consent should be given by the minister. I'm warning you of those cases I've been talking about since the beginning of this story. How much our people's suffering is and what paradox this parliament's work is in this new, dictatorial Rules of Procedure, and how European Parliamentarians are doing to us yesterday's session, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, will soon end, the European Parliament, which has decided to ask the UN to extend the work of the anti-Serbian Hague casamat for another two years. Of course, all of this in order to get more time to condemn innocent Serbian heroes, as it was done with our political, military and police summit 10 days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15107	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 68, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Myalevich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15108	Dear Presidency, colleagues, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 68 - to delete this member. The SRS considers it necessary to implement the innovation and harmonisation of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, the provisions of the law in the field of justice, international and bilateral agreements, as well as other legal regulations in this area, and therefore propose to delete this member. In fact, this law has a large number of contradictions. There is no reciprocity and is in direct contrast with the SOFA contract and with the Treaty on the passage of foreign troops through Serbia. Only the state of Serbia will have to deliver its citizens, and when, by what agreement, we can ask Americans to come here for a little time to serve -- difficult, almost never. Let's say, another case. What if Georgia, Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, accidentally ask the leaders of the Resistance to judge them there? How and on what basis will we be able to prevent Mr. Homen from going to account for what the Resistance was doing there? Mr. Homen says - hard, because he's never been there. However, Mr. Homen, let me inform you – Emir Šišić was never in Italy either, but he was arrested, convicted and jailed there, so I guess your time is just coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15109	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 69, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are members 69. The draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters, and the proposal is to delete the member. In particular, it refers to the disputed Article 62, which allows for the copying of parts of foreign judgments, the judgments of foreign courts and their inclusion in the judgments of domestic courts. Why is it so controversial, I've already spoken. Now I'm going to explain it one more time. First of all, I think it is controversial from the angle of co-operation of Boris Tadic's regime with the regime of the Republic of Croatia. It is probably familiar to you, and it seems to some that the County Court, the District Court of Gospić, sentenced the returnee Svetozar Karan, a Serb, to 13 years for some participation in the fight, with the reason that 500 years, along with the ancestors, was on the coat of arms of the Croats. These people can't believe it, so I'm going to deliver this verdict to the President of the Assembly, which is photocopyed, so they're going to be able to make sure this is true. So, the County Court, the District Court in Gospić, stated that Svetozar Karan came to the Republic of Croatia with the intention of extending the borders of the Republic of Serbia to the well-known border – Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovitica, but that he was guilty for being 500 years, along with his ancestors, on the coat of arms of the Croats; that he had come to Croatia along with the Ottomans. When he left Croatia, he took everything he had, and now he came back to collect the damage. So, if you have any brains in your head, it'll never occur to you to apply, i.e. to include parts of these judgments in the judgments of the courts of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15111	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 70, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15112	Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters. I have suggested that Article 70 of the Law be deleted, which reads: "The execution of a criminal sanction imposed by a verdict of a domestic court may be required by the State, in accordance with the provisions of this law". I have already drawn attention to the fact that international legal aid in criminal matters is regulated by the provisions of Chapter 32, the procedure for providing international legal assistance under the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the provisions of Chapter 33, the procedure for issuing criminal and suspect persons of the same code, as well as the provisions of ratified international conventions. Now the legislator introduces another source for international legal aid in criminal matters. Instead of getting codified legislation in this important area of criminal law, we are introducing particularism and chaos into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. This practice can lead to different application of the law. Instead of making it easier for the new law to apply its rights, it makes it difficult, burdening the legal system with the norms already laid down in other laws. Pay attention to the law you're offering us. In Article 62(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters is explicitly given the possibility that part of the judgment of the foreign court should be rewritten and included in the original form in the ruling of the domestic court. Does this mean that you will overwrite the rulings of Croatian courts in which Serbs returnees are accused of large-scale Serbian aggression, Chetnic aggression and the like? For all of this, I urge you to re-examine this law and adopt my amendment, which requires that Article 70 be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15113	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 71, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 72, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters, to his 72nd member, with the intention of erasing that member. In fact, this is one very important law, because the relationship of every country to its citizens is also the mirror of the country in the world. However, what is the relationship between this government and this ruling majority towards the citizens of Serbia, you really don't need any law. And those laws that you have passed, and that you intend to pass, you have not respected, nor will you respect, because here, and this Rules of Procedure, the Circtrossed Rules of Procedure, which you have recently adopted and which we are currently working on, aimed at establishing the effectiveness of this Parliament's work in order to bring some laws, which are waiting, in line with the Constitution, but that is not your goal. That's what this law shows, because it doesn't comply with the Constitution. According to the Constitution, you have obligations to the citizens of Serbia, but you have never shown it in practice. We have seen how you treat our citizens who are in The Hague. For science, only our nearby neighborhood can serve you, to see how the state of Croatia treats its generals who are being tried there. They have every possible logistics of the Croatian state to protect themselves and their interests, while our citizens do not have the assistance of the state of Croatia, but are directly getting away from them, as is the case with Prof. Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15115	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 73, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on a bill of law, i.e. I've submitted an amendment to article 73 requesting that this member be deleted. To clarify, I'll read what article 73 reads. Otherwise, it refers to the area of execution of a domestic criminal conviction. Article 73 says, "The decision to initiate the procedure for the execution of a domestic criminal verdict in a foreign state is brought by an unsuspecting court who reached a verdict in the first degree, according to a public prosecutor's opinion." This is one proposal that has nothing to do with reality, reality, something that, not to say, is totally stupid. If anyone is convicted of any criminal sanctions, I'm guessing that criminal sanctions will be served in our country and there's no need for such cases to be required to serve a sentence in a foreign country. This process itself, the process of transfering those convicted by a criminal verdict, would require a lot of resources, and those resources could be spent much better than to pray to some states that those we convicted would serve a prison sentence in those countries. Or you're preparing all this because you'll probably get out of power quickly, and since you have your people in the judiciary, to protect those who, later on, will probably, like Djelic, Dinkic and the others, be sentenced to criminal penalties, to allow them, through a public prosecutor, to serve the prison sentences they deserve in foreign states, to have a much better treatment. No, these prison sentences must serve right in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15117	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic, you can't, your group of MPs wasted their time. On Article 74, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Marco.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to be submitted refers to the eradication of Article 74 of your bill, because this matter is already regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act and other provisions of ratified and confirmed international and bilateral contracts that have become part of our legal system. Political pressures by your Western mentors can't be a valid reason for mere copying and passing laws, which, by the way, are many times and inapplicable in our state-law mechanism, especially in the work of the Hague processes, with disastrous results and the consequences of your co-operation with The Hague tribunal so far. The evidence for this is an incredibly large number of processors in the tribunal, who impose inappropriately large penalties against other peoples, which forges history, and defines the tribunal in world intellectual circles as an extremely anti-Serbian court. In addition, 912 years are fines for members of Serbian nationality, and we remember both constitutional and illegal extradition, and then the murders of former Serbian-SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic. We are witnessing these days and shameful verdicts to the Serbian police and military summit, a total of 96 years, without restrictions, the process against the greatest Serbian hero of the modern age, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and due to his perfect defence and disclosure of witnesses to the prosecution, and, on the other hand, a liberating verdict for criminals of the type Naser Oric and Ramush Haradinaj.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15119	Thank you. On Article 75, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 76, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are trading for this pay phone, hoping to convince the ruling majority MPs that there are good and smart amendments in the amendments proposed by the SRS, but unfortunately we were working almost to an empty room, except for Mr Milivojevic and a few MPs; practically none of the ruling majority were present. Regardless, we continue to explain our amendments. I have submitted an amendment relating to a foreign state's request to enforce sanctions under the ruling of the national court, specifically, on the consequences of taking over and executing a domestic verdict. It's about Article 76. The proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, which reads: "If the requested state takes over the execution of a domestic criminal conviction, the criminal sanction procedure in the Republic of Serbia is suspended. If the requested State does not take over the execution of a domestic criminal conviction or if the convicted avoids the execution of criminal sanctions in the requested State, the competent court in the Republic of Serbia will continue the procedure for the execution of the sentence. The Ministry of Justice shall inform the foreign authority of any decision of the court or of another State body which has an impact on the execution of a domestic criminal conviction. ''Our proposal, as for all other amendments, is to delete Article 76, because this way the government has shown that such important problems approach in an episodeal way, which breaks the unity of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15121	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic keeps coming forward, but, Mr. Krasic, you know time has been spent and you have no right, nor has Mr. Martinovic. On Article 77, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Maric, do you want to explain the amendment? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15122	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that Article 77 be deleted for the same reasons I suggested that I delete Article 54. I will take this opportunity to remind myself of the commitment of the state of Serbia, which stems from the current constitution, to provide all legal assistance to its citizen General Ratko Mladic, who was indicted by a false Hague indictment. As you know, The Hague tribunal has shown that the criminal institution, a political court, which has only one task, is to transfer all the blame for the outbreak of wars in the former Yugoslavia, for all the crimes committed in those wars, to Serbs and Serbia. The Hague tribunal, directly or indirectly, killed 12 Serbs. He sentenced the entire political, military and police leadership of Serbia, Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska to more than nine centuries in prison, but thus freed Ramush Haradinaj, responsible for the death of 400 Serbs in Kosovo, freed Sefer Halilovic, who is responsible for the deaths of several thousand Serbs in Sarajevo and in central Bosnia, freed Naser Oric, who is directly or indirectly responsible for the death of more than 3,500 Serbs in Podrinj. If it wants to be a serious state, and I believe it does, Serbia must protect all its citizens, including Ratko Mladic, from such a court. Under the current circumstances, the only legal aid, the only effective legal protection the state of Serbia can provide to Ratko Mladic, is to suspend further co-operation with this criminal institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15123	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 78, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Dragan is not present. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 79, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 80, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 81, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 82, the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 83, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15124	Honorable Presidency, MPs, respected ministers, I brought out yesterday, I have an amendment here in writing, but something has happened that I believe is of general interest to the citizens and to our state of Serbia. Yesterday he was a guest on Roma radio at Old Paz's former president, Mr. Komazec, and spoke about his activities when he was president. In his speech on Roma radio, he said that the show was shut down and he was banned from doing that radio. I wonder, are we Roma entitled to something in this country and are we citizens of this country's territory, or are we citizens outside its territory? You shut down one of our stations, then the other TV, the radio, and now you're shutting down the other radio stations. Please, public information is for all citizens of importance, talking about activities, needs etc. You've abolished the Roma population. In the greatest democracy of the state, you tear down our houses, you don't give us the media, you suppress us in every way. Today, when it was voted in Decade, nothing happens, the money has come a lot, they're nowhere to be found, and I wonder what this country is doing? I'm not saying it's the state's top and the state, but individuals in the state are certainly making a lot of discrimination. This isn't just discrimination, this is a great revenge for both the Roma people and the media. I appeal again to the top of the state to enable our rights, what follows international conventions that our country has signed and which are mandatory.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15125	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. It wasn't in line with the content of the amendment, so I'm warning you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 84, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 85, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15126	The Legislative Committee always believes that the amendment is legally possible, the only position always feels that our amendments are not legally possible, that they are not accepted. I just can't believe that someone in the ruling coalition doesn't trust experts, their colleagues to lawyers and all those who are competent to consider these laws that we need to pass. That's how it is. So another amendment of the SRS was not accepted. I remain fully attached to this amendment, which I have submitted to Article 85, by pointing out the summary, because of the time that is limited, the proposed principle of speciality with the basic principles of international law, and that, under number 1 – the principle of legality, under number 2 – the principle of individual subjective criminal responsibility and 3 – the principle of humanity and the principle of justice and proportionality. I think you should deal with this amendment a little bit and see that if you would accept this amendment, it wouldn't harm you, it could only benefit you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15127	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 87, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15128	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, when the most important reasons for the adoption of international law law in criminal matters are to address the problems arising from the application of legal provisions governing this area, the improvement of the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with other countries in criminal matters, and to allow the acceleration of criminal proceedings leading to criminal acts of organised crime that have a transnational character, and all of this with a view to rushing towards European integration, it is clear that the state of Serbia is in a rather invisible situation. So either we adopt not excessively required laws, or we make some legal solutions that within a few months you try to fix with changes and additions. Today, the subject of such an accelerated congregation debate falls into the first category mentioned. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment proposing that Article 87 be deleted, which concerns non-application of the measures of coercion. Namely, a witness or an expert who does not respond to a call from the competent authority of the State of Prayer will not be subject to any penalty or measure of coercion, even if the call contained such an order. So an absolutely illogical basis, which will not lead to further regulation and resolution of the problem, as stated in the reasoning of the bill's proposal, is, on the contrary, the continuation of a legal anarchy in the Republic of Serbia, for which the most responsible ruling coalition is gathered around the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15129	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 88, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Perry, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 88. Proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, as a logical trail of amendments to Article 7, submitted by Dr Nikola Žutic. We in the SRS have no logic problems and it is quite logical, if it is proposed to delete Article 7, that Article 88, which calls for that member, should also be deleted. This law only has one goal, and that is to help the enemies of the Serb people, by the "Governmental Government", in the fight against the patriotic Serb people, when arrested and delivered. When, on the other hand, it comes to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, then the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, in case Dr Vojislav Seselj is charged with incurring proceedings for contempt of the court, has mildly declared: "There has been no influence on witnesses", and there is no problem, and there is no co-operation. On this occasion, I would like to warn the citizens of Serbia that they are just a little bit more patient, because MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, vice-president of the SRS, is preparing exposures for the vote of non-government of the Republic of Serbia, and when she does, then there is no stone left from that government on stone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15131	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 89, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic, who is not in the hall. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the other MPs want a word? (No) On Article 90, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15132	Madam Chairman, it is interesting how much the National Assembly, the parliamentary majority, does not worry about what position the Constitutional Court is taking on various concepts and initiatives that are being referred to, for example, our Rules of Procedure. We were unable to sign a single amendment, let's say, that someone could come out and explain that amendment instead of MPs who may not be here right now, because Article 147(2) explicitly states that the applicant of the amendment cannot, or together with other MPs, submit more amendments to the same member of the bill. You have court practice and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the Constitution does not restrict the right to propose laws by MPs, but rather foresees that each MP can propose law and other general act, that amendments to the draft laws form a form of amendment or addition of the bill in the process of passing laws, that they be adopted by the National Assembly and that, after adoption, they become an integral part of the law. The Constitutional Court also assesses that the right to submit amendments does not only apply to the exercise of the rights and duties of MPs in the National Assembly, but also to the achievement of the Constitution of the guaranteed position and role of the MP, and in particular the right to propose under Article 76. The Constitution and the right to propose the law referred to in Article 80(2), and therefore considers that the contested provision, by Decision 52/01, does not comply with those provisions of the Constitution, and it is foreseen that MPs, who are members of the same parliamentary group, may submit only one amendment to one member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15133	Thank you, although you're not talking about the amendment that gave you your word. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 91, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Jojic is not in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 91, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 92, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15134	Of course, this amendment also requires that the possibility be removed, although Article 92 is unspoken; according to this article, it turns out that anyone who endures the prison sentence as a witness could be handed over. I have to inform the public that between extradition and surrender, those of the Resistance, who wrote the law, they don't know, there's a big difference, a huge difference, like a huge difference in the name of an independent and independent court. There is an International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague, and its full name already prejudges that the persons charged are responsible and only there can they be told how much they are punished. But they've accepted new terms and memorials for the state's performance the moment the Resistance takes over to guide it. You see, this country is run by the Resistance. The US Embassy microchiped some people; they could not pass under Montgomery and be accepted by the people, even in censorship, as Mladjan Dinkic, but came through the "yellow company" and prevailed. There's Homen, there's Milivojevic, there's Konstantinovic, so I don't order what's in the state structures, as state secretary, assistant minister, etc. So, dear citizens, voting for Boris Tadic, you voted, in fact, for Bill Clinton, because their representatives run the state. They create your life. So, if there's a choice this year, don't define yourself for this yellow head, because then you're absolutely certain of negativity. So, you're voting well...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15135	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 93, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are currently no MPs in the O.R., Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, nor the Minister of Justice, nor the Secretary of State. Maybe people would accept my amendment, and they can't hear my arguments, or the explanation of the SRS, so I ask you to suspend the session temporarily and ensure the presence of authorised representatives of the government, so that the MPs don't speak in the wind. It's about an extremely important amendment. Otherwise, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, for your information, the evil languages say that Mr. Homen and this company from the Resistance did not attend the Business Forum in Kopalnik because Alexander Lukashenko, president of Belarus attended. Because they wanted their patent of anti-constitutional collapse of government, Serbia, exports to both Ukraine and Belarus, and failed in Belarus, they were ashamed to look the man in the eye. In Serbia, they succeeded, I don't know why they don't have the courage to look into the eyes of the SRS MPs now. You, Mr. Milivojevic, have your own laptop, play while the amendments are under discussion, and let us do the work of the MPs. This is about the Serbian government systematically lying to citizens. It is enough to just read the reasoning of this law, that is, why it needs to be carried out by emergency procedure – to avoid harmful consequences and to speed up Serbia's EU accession. So they're talking about the CAP, because when they brought it in 2001, they said that for this very reason they needed it...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15137	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 94, the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milorad Christine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, thank you for allowing me, or for wanting to allow me, since yesterday I explained the amendment to article 45 and this morning you called me to explain it again. There is no one in the Rules of Procedure to explain itself twice, whether during the day, or the next day. I'm glad you have sympathy for the SRS and for me as a member of that parliamentary group, and I hope I don't sit on that "Current of Truth" bench we have on one of the TVs. I have submitted an amendment to article 94, which is a matter of temporary surrender. Temporary surrender, as a notion, is not fully defined. This introduces arbitration and uncertainty into our legal order. For example, to look like a temporary surrender, that is, handing over to the regents of a face to the United States. The Americans have had and have secret CIA prisons all over Europe. This has been investigated in the European Parliament, but without success. The Americans are not too afraid to kidnap the citizens of EU countries and take them to the United States. So, what will convince them to temporarily hand over the face back? Will they respect this law of ours that you propose, and we dispute it in 104 amendments? How are we going to respect this one of theirs, which is beyond all possible legal norms and democracy in the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15139	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 95, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15140	Dear citizens of Serbia, the SRS, on behalf of you and in order to protect your rights and interests, has submitted 103 amendments to the proposal for a law on international assistance in criminal matters. It is really symptomatic that out of 103 amendments, no amendment has been adopted by the ruling coalition, so ask yourself whether the ruling coalition does not love you, Serbian citizens, who, if adopted, can largely damage, or do not love the SRS. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 95. The SRS believes that all members of this law should be deleted and that this law is unacceptable, inadmissible and that it partially defines the rights. The SRS believes that no Serbian citizen should be extradited. All rights of SRS President Dr Seselj have been violated in The Hague since the first day of 24 March 2003, meaning more than six years. The prosecution has these days, realizing that it cannot defeat Dr Vojislav Seselj and that it cannot reconcile with the fact that he wins, has filed another indictment against Vojislav Seselj, for disrespecting The Hague tribunal. I already went after this phone booth a few months ago, asked...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15141	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: We want to talk. ( b) Of those who have the right, do not throw away. On Article 97, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Anybody else want a word? (No) On Article 98, the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 98, and this amendment proposes that this member be deleted, and it refers to the delivery of data without a request. Under no circumstances shall the domestic judicial authorities, without complete application and reasonable justification, provide the competent authorities of the foreign country with information on criminal offences and perpetrators. Regardless of the interrelationship, I believe that without authentic evidence, no one can give information to a foreign state. This team before a number of abuses and over-authorizations are possible, especially a violation of the Constitution. The applicant must contain a full guarantee of accuracy and good intentions, in order to be followed, in accordance with the international contract. Why did America not sign the International Statute on the establishment of the International Criminal Court, and this statute was signed by 198 states in 1998? The Americans didn't sign it so their terrorists and criminals wouldn't be responsible for the crimes committed on the territory of another state. You heard what she said these days and Hillary Clinton. She also told us and all honest citizens that she did not finish her story with the Balkans, so I suggest that the foreign ministry consider this message that has been sent to us, as MPs. Why can Americans, all over the world, kill, rape, burn, burn without responding to anyone? The issue is about this Article of the 98th Law, which we believe is not in line with the tradition and parity of our judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15143	Thank you, Mr. Sluzzarevich. On Article 99, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters and on two other draft laws, today we have a joint search in particular. I hope I've spoken this new name correctly from the new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. To Article 99. I have submitted an amendment to the law on international legal aid in criminal matters which I have proposed erasing it, as all other MPs of the SRS have submitted amendments to all the other members of the bill and have proposed to delete them, and thus not to accept the entire bill. That's our general view of this law. Article 99 of this proposal reads: "Extremely from the provision of Article 11 of this Act, the State of Prayer may be required to compensate for the costs incurred in connection with the craftsmanship and temporary surrender of the person". The government of the Republic of Serbia has decided not to accept this amendment, with reasons identical to that of not accepting all amendments. This argument is prescribed, from word to word, for reasons of law-making. Among other things, it is said that, in addition to the need to fulfil the obligation to implement confirmed European conventions and UN conventions in its legal system, there are also some issues in the Code of Criminal Procedure and that it partially regulates the matter of international legal aid in criminal matters. Instead of harmonising the new provisions, which would be based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the proponent wants to pass a new law. Perhaps the main problem lies in the fact that the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure have been defined that the separation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia is not allowed, and this government seems to be very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15145	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 100, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Mladenovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to delete the 100th law. As for the law on international legal aid in criminal matters, the court in The Hague, delivering Serbian citizens to other countries, the position of the SRS is known to the public, it is clear and unchanged from the establishment of the party until today. We're not into any deliveries, it was about the Kovacevic case, or the UN tribunal's claim, or similar claims. The SRS would never allow the extradition of General Pavkovic, Ojdanic, Slobodan Milosevic, Milan Milutinovic, or Sainovic, or Sljivancan, or Lukic, or any other Serb, regardless of their political status. I will just briefly note that one of them was extradited just on June 28th to Vidovdan, which is an extremely important date for all of us Serbs. We've seen the latest rulings for Serbs, aged 15 to 22, which is for most, because of their age, mostly, life imprisonment. After the acquittals for some Shipatarian terrorists, our position is even clearer and firmer toward this Hague casamat. Only Serbs get convicted, they get long-term sentences. What can I expect from Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic after all these verdicts? That is why the SRS has proposed that all members of this law be deleted, to protect the citizens of Serbia; if someone should be tried, it should be in Serbia. We must not allow and we do not want anyone to go to The Hague again, to an unjust court that judges only Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15147	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? On Article 101, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word from those who haven't spent their time? (No) On Article 103, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that you be a member of 103. The bill is deleted because it's anti-constitutional, as well as the whole bill. No convention, no international treaty, even if it rests on the principle of reciprocity, can undo the Constitution guaranteeing the legal certainty of Serbian citizens. Each Signatory State shall have the right to exclude, by annex, those provisions which go to the detriment of more favourable legal solutions. Even the Convention on Human Rights does not allow the delivery of foreign nationals to countries where there is a death penalty, such as America. In the light of the bill's proposal, as a constitutional basis, it is stated in Article 97, paragraphs 2 and 16. The Constitution. This argument is completely inappropriate, as point 2 of this article speaks of the jurisdiction of the Republic in achieving and protecting the freedom and rights of citizens, no extradition from other countries, and point 16 – that the Republic provides the jurisdiction and work of the Republic authorities. What does this have to do with the extradition of our citizens to foreign courts? It is obvious that there is no foothold in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to pass such a law. By passing this law, part of the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning the provision of international legal aid, which regulates this area in accordance with the Serbian Constitution, would be put out of effect. The most important change, compared to the current code, is seen in the term "face", instead of "foreigner", in part of the assumptions for extradition. The international legal assistance of our authorities and courts must be limited to technical and legal assistance, not necessarily to the unreserved acceptance of indictments or even to the judgment of foreign courts, as provided for in this draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15149	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? On Article 104, the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mrs. Jocic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters, to Article 104, which reads, as well as amendments to many other members of this law, to delete that member. This article provides for the law to enter into force eight days after its adoption. By this law, as well as many others you are trying to pass, you would provide a country under whose influence you bring all these laws to the United States, to protect your citizens, who can do whatever they want on our country's territory and not in any way respond to it, and that we must, under their pressure, extradite our citizens, to be tried in courts of foreign states. The Serbian Radical Party believes that no citizen of our country should be extradited to other countries and that all, if they have any responsibility, should be tried in Serbia. That is why, like many other amendments, this amendment is also proposed to delete Article 104 and this whole law, which does not contribute to any of its members' better legal regulations in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15151	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I've been setting a break for an hour. We'll continue at 1:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we expect the arrival of Minister Milan Markovic at 14 o'clock, so I move the beginning of the afternoon session in 24 minutes, so at 14 o'clock. Thank you for understanding. [[After break – at 14.00]] We will begin this afternoon's meeting, based on Article 83. The session was invited to attend Mr. Miodrag Djidic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Aleksandar Vujičić, Director of Management Milovanovic, Head of the Department, and Minister Milan Markovic will join us in one seven minutes. Thank you for understanding. He's on his way here. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of PRANJA NOVA AND FINANSIRANJA TERORISM (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the bill: Miroslav Petković, Jovan Palalić, Slobodan Maraš, Mićo Rogović, Ljubomir Kragović, Dusan Marić, Boris Aleksic, Ljubisa Petković, Jadranko Vuković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Filip Stojanović, Milica Radović and Zlata Djerić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Boris Aleksic, the applicant of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15154	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the purpose of the amendment to Article 2 is to identify the most dangerous terrorist organisations for the safety and interest of the Republic of Serbia and of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, in this bill, the government did not find it appropriate to appoint some of the most dangerous terrorist organizations from KIM, first of all, so-called. Kosovo Liberation Army, so-called The Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac, Medvedje, which operates in both Kosovo and southern central Serbia, as well as other terrorist organisations. To make the irony bigger, in 2003, a list of terrorist organisations containing these organisations was published on the Serbian government site. What's this about? The Serbian government said, in its explanation for which it rejected the amendment, that since the law is a general act, they simply cannot count all terrorist organisations. None of you asked you to count all terrorist organisations, but only those of the most dangerous terrorist organisations, which have killed the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who today are jeopardising the security of the Republic of Serbia. If you don't believe us, look at the reports of Joseph Bodansky, who was the first man of the American Congress to fight terrorism, unconventional warfare, in the period since 1998 and beyond. He also warned you in October 2003 that he was preparing on 17 March. He announced these terrorist actions, which the terrorist organisations of the Cypriot terrorists will take, and you have done nothing about it. However, in order to show how contradictory this argument is, I will refer to Article 73, the Serbian government's argument regarding the member. In this article, i.e. in an explanation for which they reject one of the amendments to this article, they say – one of the most important risk factors in this regard, related to terrorism, is so-called "terrorism". geographical risk, i.e. the risk arising from the fact that a certain client comes from a territory known for its high crime rate and terrorist activities. So why didn't you pay particular attention to KIM and the terrorist organizations that operate there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15155	Thank you, too. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudic first answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15156	Thank you. Article 27 concerning Rule 143 through one question to clarify whether there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not. I have to react, purely procedural. You just said we're moving on to another point. Can you clear that up for us? What does it mean to move to another point in the situation where discussions in particular are combined? How did we get to the second point? What other point did we go to? Can you explain that? I think there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15157	Thank you, if that's all. So, first, we discussed the proposal for a law on international legal aid in criminal matters, and that, in the context of a united debate, is over. Then we move on to the bill on preventing money laundering and financing terrorism, in continuity. There is no interruption and we are going to discuss this proposal in particular. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15158	Mr. Aligrudic, you have one mutant from the Rules of Procedure, so you have to spend a little more energy to interpret it. I appeal to Article 88(2), which gives me authority, gives me the right to ask you to give the necessary explanation regarding the work of the session and other issues. Mr Aligrudic started with a question that is impossible to answer, given that the Rules of Procedure is the way it is, designed only to disenfranchise Parliament's work and work on amendments, so that no one can understand what, in fact, MPs, on the basis of the rights they draw from the Constitution, want to fix in any law. I want to ask you another question. You've postponed the session for another half-hour, wanting to join us one of the authorised ministers, three of them are listed for this debate, and none of them are available. I think it's really inappropriate, because, based on this Rules of Procedure, one of them could go out for this pay phone to answer questions that MPs are asking about amendments, or to convince them that these amendments should be accepted, and we don't have anyone here who can do that. So, if we're going to make a provision out of Parliament, we can keep doing this. If we want to take this seriously, although I can see that MPs of the majority are not interested in Parliament's work, here, look, there are four of them here and four secretaries of some ministries, then it is best to stop today's work and wait for some time, when ministers will be here and when MPs will realize that they have a duty to attend meetings, because the Rules of Procedure also obliges them to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15159	Thank you. You weren't in the O.R. when I said who was present and said that we expect Mr. Milan Markovic's arrival, who is there, but who reported to be on his way now. We thought we could start a debate. If this does not satisfy you, I will set a break, as Mr. Zoran Krasic says he sees the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15160	Mr. Novakovic, this is the form in which I could reach this pay phone to warn you of something and ask for an answer, on behalf of all MPs. Come on, they're not here (show your hand to your left) but at least on this side there are. We are now in a really awkward situation with regard to the application of Article 143 of this new Rules of Procedure, following these amendments. Look, you said we moved to agenda number two, and that's, like, the second law. There are twenty amendments under that law, I suppose. Now the next question is asked. Since this debate is united, as you say, can this category, logically, exist at all, it is a second question, but we are now asking a question – if the applicants of the amendment have the right to speak for up to two minutes, can representatives of the parliamentary group use that other time, specifically, party representative – 15 minutes, and the SRS, another 68 minutes, as many as there are some principles that apply? You need to explain this very simply – whether we have or do not have the right to avoid these situations, to "cocat" here and to show solidarity, humanity and care for the unsettled by taking someone out of their pockets. We don't want any conflict with you. We just want to be explained very simply. However you explain it, there is no logical explanation, because of the supernaded Rules of Procedure and what is incorporated into that Rules of Procedure. It's impossible to bring the discussion together in detail about three laws at all, it's impossible. Because if you do, then we can go with the amendments to the third law. We don't want that to happen, but we just want it to be clear once and for all. It's probably gonna take a little while, 'cause you guys are gonna be a little longer, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15161	Thank you. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The time of each parliamentary group is directly, unequivocally read at the very beginning. As far as I know, the time of the SRS Parliamentary Group has expired after this debate and is gone. So, it's time for you, for a united debate on the first three points of the agenda, unlike other parliamentary groups, which have yet to have another specific time. Since the minister isn't in the O.R., he hasn't arrived yet, I'm setting a 15-minute break. We'll continue work at 2:30. [[After break – at 2.30 p.m.]] After a 15-minute break, we shall proceed with the amendment to Article 2... I'm sorry. Mr. Shormaz reported on the amendment to article 2 submitted by Mr. Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15163	I'm reporting for my colleague Alexic's amendment. I don't think it was far from logical to be adopted, because this whole law, the only importance of this law, and why we're adopting it is that he's one of the ones on the list needed to enter the Schengen area, or to get those famous visas that our citizens expect. Otherwise, those who deal with this activity in Serbia know that, when it comes to implementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, there is virtually no meaning. First, those who deal with the crime of money laundering in Serbia do it for personal interest, for personal benefit. There are no data that this funds any terrorist organisation in the world, and also in our territory, in the southern Serbian province, Kosovo and Metohija, all know that 80% of the business activities are actually in the gray zone, so little that goes through some regular channels conducted by Eulex, which has brought this incompetent authority to Kosovo and Metohija, and something little through the executive authority of the Kosovo Albanians. That money, which is so small, does not finance terrorism, which is otherwise present among those who today make up power in our southern province of KIM. These terrorist organisations, which can threaten security in Serbia, made by Kosovo Albanians, are financed in a completely different way. They finance, first of all, heroin trafficking. I think that should be said once for this assembly speaker, and that's why I called about this amendment. If, as a state, regardless of this law, we really want to fight terrorism, then in our security services, in our police and military, we must already organise ourselves in such a way, of course, and in our country, our diplomacy, to meet not only our citizens, but to organize and defend ourselves from it, because it is a danger that is hanging over Serbia's head for the next period. We've got to get organized. It's a heroin trade. I'll tell you, briefly, some data, in one minute, known in the world, that 93% of the total production of heroin in the world is done in a country called Afghanistan. There are 70,000 NATO soldiers in Afghanistan. Since NATO has been there, heroin production in Afghanistan has increased 20 times. It would be enough if that state wanted to fight heroin production, raise agricultural helicopters and spray those fields with a macaque, with the protection of 70,000 NATO soldiers, and no more heroin production. The biggest market near Afghanistan is, of course, the European Union, three million heroin addicts in the EU, not users, the user has much more, but addicts; the treated heroin addicts have three million. Add to that us who are not EU members, large markets such as Turkey, Russia, Ukraine, Switzerland, etc., and then you can think about how much money it is. The biggest heroin dealers in Europe are Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija. Officially, according to UN data, the Albanian mafia has become the fourth mafia in power in the world. They consider Serbia and the Serbian state to be the greatest enemies, and we are not preparing for that. We need to prepare, and in our diplomacy, we need to start delivering this data. Afghanistan is, by the way, the first state to recognise KIM's independence. Of course, they're complimentary businesses, these products, and they sell. They're connected and that's how terrorist organizations in the world are financed. I repeat, 70,000 NATO soldiers in Afghanistan. The Bondsteel base has 16,000, approximately NATO soldiers, half of which are Americans, US soldiers in the territory of the southern Serbian province, Kosovo and Metohija. No one can convince me it's not connected. In our diplomatic activities, we would have to start and talk about it, not that at the conclusion of the Prime Minister of Spain that Spain will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, our president responded so sharply – Mr. Prime Minister of Spain, and Serbia will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija. That is not the way it is done, but we must create both in the police and in the security service army that will resist it and that will start fighting beyond the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because they are a danger to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15164	Thank you. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, on the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, I have submitted an amendment, which reads: "Article 2, paragraph 5, after point 3, points 4 is added), which reads: 'The terrorist organisation, in the sense of this law, is considered to be so. The National Committee for the Liberation and Defence of All Albanian Territories, so-called Kosovo Liberation Army, so-called Albanian National Army, so-called The Presevo Liberation Army, Medvedje and Bujanovac and other terrorist organisations identified by the competent state authorities and services of the Republic of Serbia. The so-called "terrorist organization", in the sense of this law, is considered a so-called "terrorist organisation". Kosovo security forces. "The reason for the amendment is that the Republic of Serbia has years of experience in the fight against terrorism, especially in Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, it is necessary for this article to specifically list members of the most notorious terrorist organisations, who have committed and committed a large number of crimes, are engaged in money laundering and financing their activities in the territory of our country. So-called Kosovo's security forces include members of so-called Kosovo security forces. The National Committee for the Liberation and Defence of All Albanian Territories, so-called Kosovo Liberation Army, so-called Albanian National Army and so-called The Presevo, Medvedje and Bujanovac Liberation Army, which the Serbian government defined as terrorist and Albanian terrorism and organised crime in Kosovo and Metohija, issued in September 2003. That is why it is necessary for this article to specifically list members of the most notorious terrorist organisations, who have committed and committed a large number of crimes, are involved in money laundering and financing their activities in our country's territory. I'd also like to mention members of the so-called. "Rossa" and "Wehhabi" terrorist organizations, which you can see freely if you come to the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Our state would have to do everything to prevent these organisations from spreading and strengthening, to prevent such members from issuing documents to the Serbian state so that they can travel uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15166	Thank you, Mr. Kragovic. Anyone else want a word? On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Milica Radovic. Here you go. With the two minutes you have as an applicant for the amendment, another 13.5 minutes has the DSS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15167	I'll use time for the amendment and use some of the time that's assigned to the MP's group. At first, I must say that I do not agree with the way in which the ruling coalition interprets the new provisions of the Rules of Procedure that has been made in this assembly, primarily in the work relating to a united debate in particular. On the other hand, the time of the two minutes that the applicant of the amendment is too short, I believe that there are MPs among us who are able to sum up their thoughts within two minutes and to fully explain their amendment, but I believe that such an inappropriate restriction of discussion does not go in favour of a quality debate. Now let me say something about the amendment. I have made an amendment to Article 3. The draft law, which regulates or should regulate any concepts used in the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In particular, the amendment refers to the expansion of the concept of property, by extending it in words: works of art, precious metals and other valuables. I think that way the concept of property would be, in any case, more detailed. I am also of the opinion that there is a need for the Department to find its place in Article 3 to prevent money laundering. It is true that it is defined by Article 52, but if we are talking about the very concepts, then it would be quite comprehensive for it to be precise and defined in all parts, that is, in the law where the other concepts are defined. When I was talking about a quasi-ban in the principle debate, I said I didn't agree that the term was adequate, that it was necessary to find an expression that was more appropriate to the spirit of our language. In addition to disagreeing with the very term, I do not agree with the definition used for the quasibank, because the quasibank does not mean what is described in the bill itself. The quasibank is not a bank registered in a state where it does not operate, but is a quasibank that is registered in a state where it does not physically exist. That's a much more precise definition. I think the proposer of this law should consider this. I also believe that the term "secure transaction and electronic money" should have found its place in determining the concepts of this law. All this suggests that the law is not the best way to regulate the concepts that apply in it, therefore, what I can make as a general remark, the law is not concise, it is not clear in many places and in certain situations it is too large. I can say that, specifically, I'm saying this when it comes to, say, a member of the 91st bill. It was very difficult for me, as a graduate lawyer, with a legal exam, to understand and fully appreciate it, because I'm a member of 91. The bill refers to 10 different members. In order to be able to see what is prescribed in Article 91, its true essence, which, by the way, deals with criminal punishment by a lawyer, would be necessary to take into account all 10 previous members to which it indicates. I don't think this is a good thing, and now it's time for us to make things right, because, in the end, it's going to cause a lot of extra interpretations in practice itself, and I don't think that's the aim of the legislator.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15168	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendmentr, Mr. Jadranko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6(2). However, the Serbian government has rejected the amendment, explaining that it does not accept it for reasons in Article 6(2). Proposal for a law of the number of actions and measures, i.e. Obligations that the obligors have in accordance with this proposal of the law. The government says that the adoption of an internal procedure to implement these measures is only one of the ways, or the method to which the obligor will carry out these measures and is not comprehensively prescribed as a special obligation. The promoter also says that the undivided practice of all taxpayers who have more employees is to bring in internal procedures that regulate the obligations under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, which is in place. In Article 6, ladies and gentlemen, section 2, after point 6, a new point 7 is added, which reads: "Making a procedure (internal regulation) for the conduct of employees in cases where there are doubts that money laundering or terrorist financing are involved". So far points 7), 8) and 9) become points 8), 9) and 10. Explanation of this amendment. Without a certain procedure, i.e. an internal regulation, the person employed by the obligor within the meaning of this bill will not know how to behave and act in cases where there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15170	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendmentr, Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15171	Ladies and gentlemen, I have filed this amendment for purely humane reasons, so that I may, perhaps, slow down the adoption of the law and delay its adverse consequences. If the law is passed and strictly implemented, complete leadership of the Serbian state will be arrested. Here's why. For eight years now, through the UN tribunal, Serbia has been involved in financing international terrorism. Here's the evidence. What NATO rather than a terrorist organisation, which in 1999, rudely violates the UN Charter, harshly violating international law, committed a terrorist attack on the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, killed thousands of people, destroyed the economy and eventually kidnapped Kosovo and Metohija. What is the UN tribunal but the NATO Pact, the court of the terrorist organisation. As you know, Serbia is participating in financing the court. The first proof -- only this year's budget for co-operation with The Hague tribunal envisions nearly a million euros. The second proof -- another million euros -- is intended for the award of the celebrated Serbian General Ratko Mladic. The third proof -- we recently heard a statement from a top war crimes official that several thousand people participate daily in the search for Ratko Mladic and that it costs the country 30,000 euros a day, times 30, that is 900,000 euros in a month; in a year, it is 10m euros for NATO and its court. From these uncontested facts, from these premises, only one logical conclusion follows: Serbia participates in financing international terrorism. To prevent a violation of the law, to prevent, God forbid, the arrest of the state's leadership, we only have two possible solutions. The first solution is that the government withdraws this law, a second solution, a better solution, is to suspend co-operation with The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15172	On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendmentr, Mr. Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15173	Dear People's MPs, Your Honors Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. I suggested adding a new position 2, which reads: "In the guidelines of the authority responsible for monitoring the application of this law, special attention will be paid to the analysis of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing in the territory of the southern Serbian province -- Kosovo and Metohija. “ Namely, in Article 7 paragraph 1. The draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing states: "The obligation is to make an analysis of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, in line with the guidelines adopted by the Authority to monitor the application of this law." I believe that our country, the Republic of Serbia, is particularly threatened by the actions of terrorists and terrorist organisations organised by Cypriot terrorists in our southern province – Kosovo and Metohija. I remind you that Al-Qaeda, as a special form of funding, has, in its own time, formed the so-called so-called "Al-Qaeda". A committee of NGOs. I remind you that, by the United States and the EU, NGOs, such as the Third World Aid Agency, have been declared terrorist financing. I also remind you that in a report by the U.S. State Commission, which was formed to investigate events since 11 September 2001, Halid Sheih Muhammad is specifically mentioned as one of the major organisers of the terrorist attack on the United States. The same report said Halid Sheikh Muhammad was in Kosovo and Metohija, where he helped terrorists fight Serbs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15174	Thank you. On Article 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendment holder, Mr. Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. What I want to point out at first is that we are, by the way, a police state and by applying Article 19 of the proposed law, we would just stamp it out as a confirmation of the police state. I speak to the Democrats, or ruling coalition, as you think, so you impose an obligation to establish your identity. So what's the role of the police? On top of that, the law on gambling is already required to determine the identity of the person entering the playroom. So you now re-regulate this same matter with this law, copy, without any logic, the rules of bureaucrats from the EU, and thus introduce chaos into our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15176	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 20, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Jovan Palalic submitted an amendment, with a correction proposing that Chapter 3 – Actions and measures taken by lawyers, Articles 46, 47, 48 and 49 be deleted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible. The word is submitted to the amendment by Jovan Palalic, with two minutes as the applicant for the amendment, and as an authorised representative you have eight minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15177	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very important part of the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which we talked much more about in the principle debate. I want to take this opportunity to point out the very bad consequences that the application of such solutions in this law can cause, not only when it comes to the reputation and dignity of the legal profession, but in general, the judicial system in Serbia. When you look at the effects of applying laws relating to actions and procedures that lawyers should do, regarding the entire system of change in the judiciary, which are defined under the laws that we have passed during the fall, it is very clear that we are entering a serious and problematic situation, which relates to the stability of the judicial system. On the one hand, you will have a situation to abolish courts in over 100 municipalities, and the application of this law will cause in a large number of small municipalities the closure of law offices, which will make it difficult for a large number of citizens to have access to justice and, certainly, given that the legal profession is an independent activity, a threat to the existence of a large number of citizens. On the other hand, as we have said in the principle debate, the provisions of this law, in particular the provisions relating to the records defined in Article 81, are, in fact, genuine system informants, people who need to check their clients, to determine the origin of the property, to report it to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, to keep these data secret, that everything that needs to be trusted between lawyers and clients who come to conclude, for example. One sale contract, it's broken here. The opposite question arises, and what does the tax administration do, which should be competent to deal with this business? Anyone who is a lawyer, and here has a lawyer and from the ruling coalition, and from opposition parties, know that, after the conclusion of the sale contracts in court and the clearance of those contracts, the tax administration and the tax administration have no obligation to verify the origin of the property defined by this law; this job is placed on the burden of a lawyer. The question is, why is it the lawyer who has to do it and what methods to determine? Will he ever be able to determine where a certain amount of money comes from to a foreigner who wants to buy an apartment or a foreigner who sells it, so how did he come into possession of that apartment? I'm afraid all these parties, when they find out that the lawyers are doing it, they're gonna run away from all the law offices, so we're gonna encourage something that we've declared here that we've been fighting, a kind of promotion of the writing of those people who, by their houses, by their homes, somewhere by the courts' offices, are making sales contracts, they're taking money. This further encourages bribes and one serious and responsible job, such as the conclusion of a sales contract, is being removed from the law offices. So, the application of these provisions can have serious consequences for the reputation of the legal profession, especially when it is known that criminal penalties are threatened up to 500,000 dinars for failing to provide that information if there is a fundamental doubt. They will advocate, in fear, that they are delivering all data to the Money Laundering Prevention Authority, because they will be afraid that, eventually, the Administration does not find the possibility or the underlying suspicion that the party that concluded the contract may have laundered the money through his office. Then you'll have one general hysteria to report all clients entering the law firm. I don't want to talk about any party not telling a lawyer the data defined in Article 81. The additional burden for small law offices, in small towns, is Article 77, which imposes an obligation on a lawyer to have an authorised person, to hire him, to pay for his education, to provide him with all technical conditions. The question is, which law firm at this point, and we're talking about smaller places, can it hold? On the one hand, you have the abolition of courts, and on the other hand, you will have the closure of law offices in a large number of places and promotions of nadrising, because the parties will conclude contracts in other places, not in law offices and with a legal seal. So, please ask for an opinion on this, because it is very relevant that you hear the opinion of lawyers, lawyers' chambers, whether the law offices can carry out this job and whether it is in the interest of a serious and respected profession in Serbia. In that sense, I call on all the ruling coalition lawyers, of course, and opposition parties, to support this amendment and not to place this obligation on lawyers. There is a lot of opportunity for the tax administration to establish, through its capacities, the origin of the property, determine the data and such measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and to reveal those who want to do so. We don't think that those who need to be people of the highest confidence in citizens, when they get into a special relationship with them, lawyers should do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15178	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 50, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an MP, Jovan Palalic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15179	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is, too, one of the amazing provisions in this law, which refers to the obligation of a lawyer to determine the indicators of suspicion that someone was laundering money and financing terrorism. So, it makes a commitment to lawyers to establish some kind of list of indicators based on which, when the party enters his office, they will estimate that he is a person who launders money through his office or finances terrorism. Indeed, the big question is, without any further precise provisions, what are the indicators and whether anyone is able to make such a thing up. In principle, I said we should call ourselves, among other things, to the theory of a prominent Italian theorist, Cesar Lombroz, where he, based on physiology, determined whether he was a criminal or not. Simply, all the law offices need to get to re-examine Caesar Lombroz and determine what kind of physiology these criminals have and on the basis of accessing the assessment of those who enter the office, whether they finance terrorism. Very unserious, given that large powers are given to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which has, and we have defined in one amendment, many responsibilities, many large administrative capacities and many resources. Let the administration define which indicators they are, rather than leaving to various law offices in Serbia to assess them, and then someone, based on supervision, is warning them, criticises them. Or, God forbid they fail to establish any indicator, so the party appears, so there is no indicator, so since there is no indicator, it is not suspicious, and that citizen was, in fact, laundering money, so it is established by the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Penalty of Lawyers with 500 thousand dinars! This job needs to be done by the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, not by putting another burden on the back of the attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15180	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 51, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been issued by MP Milica Radovic, as an applicant for the amendment. In addition to two minutes, as a transporter, you have 11 minutes left in Parliament time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to article 51 is part of the same continent with the amendment submitted by Mr Palalic to Article 50. We believe that indicators to identify suspects and transactions should be drawn up by the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Therefore, it is very sensitive and controversial whether lawyers, i.e. the legal chambers, should participate in the creation of a facial recognition indicator and transactions that are suspected of financing terrorism and money laundering, given the nature of the lawyer's call and a specific relationship of trust that exists between the lawyer himself and his client. I understand this is about the protection of general interest, but the question is, how much can this interest be protected in the first place if the persons required by this law are reluctant to comply with the obligations imposed? I'm guessing the proposer of this law didn't want us to go back to the application of rejected theories when he talked about what a lawyer should have in mind to say to a person that it was suspicious. I don't think it was his intention to direct us to the field of criminal anthropology, because it's something that's outdated and something that is absolutely not applicable in our legal system. I think it would be much more instructive if lawyers were to release this obligation and take this obligation by the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, because that and by the nature of things is its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15182	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP Miroslav Petkovic, as an applicant for the amendment, with a warning that you have 11 minutes within the time of the Parliament's group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15183	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Mrs Dragutinovic, I am interested in whether you have read this bill, since I spoke to Minister Markovic, who will not be a minister for the most part; he will likely be a lawyer in due course. Minister Malovic's husband is also a lawyer. What the DSS has proposed is to delete Chapter 3 of the proposed law, which makes you, in practice, an attorney's profession a spy profession. A colleague, a respected lawyer from Cačka, told me that, in principle debate, he would place on his firm the inscription "Advok Petrovic", and below – "A spy and a stalker". If you think that this is how you calculate yourself with lawyers, that you introduce them to some obligations that, absolutely, are not able to implement, I think you're on the wrong path. Minister Malovic has clearly fenced herself in this hall since her participation in writing this law. If you predict that a lawyer and his associates should put together a list of indicators, that the party that enters their door scans and assess whether it's connected to the financing of terrorism or not, I think it's completely out of their minds. We have suggested that this business of identifying the list of indicators be transferred to the tax administration, or to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. What are these people doing? If that's not their job, why move it to lawyers? We can talk about big or small places, but if the tax administration and the Money Laundering Prevention Authority don't deal with it, I don't think an honorable and respectable profession in this country can be demoted in the way that you've predicted this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15184	Thank you. On Article 79, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric. You have four minutes and 48 seconds, like the time of the Parliament Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15185	Thank you very much. I'll respect the weather. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, I believe that this amendment, which I have submitted to Article 79, could indeed be respected during the Committee's session, because it provides that the data that is being made during the course of the research of the shops, the criminal actions that have been created in money laundering, washing, drying, squeezing and everything else that goes with the money, are kept for at least 10 years. It would be directed to keep such data in one place, first of all, at the Administration, permanently. There must be one place where such data will be preserved permanently, and today's technology really enables it, because of all those later actions that we will surely come to, and this action will probably continue in different ways, to repeat itself in criminal proceedings or in criminal attempts by different entities. It is important that such data can at least be permanently preserved in one place, so that they can be monitored, compared in some of the following times, properly sanctioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15186	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? On Article 81, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an amendmentr, Mr Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15187	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Mrs Dragutinovic, fellow MPs, this DSS amendment follows what we have proposed, from eradicating Chapter 3, to transferring some of the responsibilities provided for by lawyers to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. I would like to get an answer from the finance minister asking that, as far as I hear it, the Serbian government is proposing to introduce a fiscalisation of lawyers, by a regulation of October 1st this year. This will be very interesting and, after the adoption of this law, because I assume that the ruling majority has provided the number of votes needed, I don't know how fellow lawyers will vote against themselves in the adoption of this law, I'm really interested – if you don't have 7,000 lawyers in this country in front of the government building, when you declare them spies, you will certainly have them when you introduce fiscal cash registers. Remember that lawyers are working on the tariff provided by law, that certain services are provided in the amount of "from-to" that it is impossible to define it the way you predict it. Therefore, accept the DSS amendments and respect a respected profession in this country, that this law, as much as it does, gets some sense, otherwise, I think this is an empty story and that, as with the network of courts and a set of judicial laws, which we discussed several months ago, you will come back to this assembly, not you, but Mrs Malovic. In this way, you keep one of your colleagues from coming into trouble and that justice is impossible to defend at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15188	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. The word is from Mr. Jovan Palalic, an authorised representative of the DSS Group of MPs. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15189	The chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the member who defines the records to be kept by lawyers. For the sake of the public, I'm going to read, among other things, what records lawyers need to run and report to the administration. It says this: "Data and information on the origin of the property which is the subject or which will be the subject of a business relationship or transaction". I ask here, I believe that a large number of lawyers are watching this transfer – how are they going to determine the origin of the property and in what way, if no party who came to the lawyer's office to establish a business relationship or transaction doesn't want to do it? What's lawyers gonna do then? In particular, this record – the reason is that it is suspected that money laundering or terrorist financing. For these obligations imposed on members of 81 lawyers, along with a number of others, there are exactly 13 records to be kept, I would not read them on this occasion, I am reading these most problematic ones, especially the identification of the origin of the property, lawyers' offices should have a whole spy network of informants, friends, different persons who need to chase that person, to determine where he gets the money to buy an apartment, some Serbian citizen, so that he can report it, so that he can report it to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Of course, that information must never be found out by a client who comes to the law firm, it should be a secret, and the lawyer will spin the phone and report to anyone who comes to his mind. I want to see what these methods are, ways to determine the origin of the party's assets that comes into the attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15190	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, the seriousness of the topic deserves a little more attention to a speaker who speaks from a pay phone. Please be quiet. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15191	Mr. Chairman, I went out for a pay phone to confirm exactly what you said. This topic truly deserves much more attention than the parliamentary majority shows. Look how many MPs there are on this side. Does that make sense? What are we discussing? You said, "The laws are important." What's the big deal? White Schengen. Who's interested in white Schengen? Well, I guess this side, and frankly, is, except this isn't going to get us any white Schengen. By the time I got out, I used the opportunity to congratulate General Ratko Mladic's birthday today and wish him good health, that God would guard him and that he would never fall into the hands of those we could certainly call terrorists, who would arrest him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15192	Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and thank you for understanding. On Article 91, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15193	I'll use the time for the amendment and the time that the MPs have.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15194	I'm sorry, just to tell you that you have 11 minutes left of the MP's group, feel free to use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15195	Thank you. The amendment I have filed requires the removal of Article 91. The draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, because, as I have previously stated, I do not view lawyers as justifiable to be leveled with bonds within the meaning of this law, nor do I find any justification that they are criminally punished unless they establish in a regulated manner the identity of a person, or if they do not check persons and all transactions. These checks can sometimes be so difficult to penetrate into the very personal, or most personal spheres of the client himself, and sometimes, despite his best wishes, a lawyer is unable to obtain certain documents, or evidence itself. Article 91 The bill provides that a lawyer will be punished in a criminal manner if he does not establish the identity of the real owner of the legal person, or if he does not establish it in a prescribed manner, by taking into account a document that is not more than three months old. The question is, do you know what a lawyer needs to do to get to the real owner of a legal person? Under the current law, it should determine all owners who share over 10%, and then identify all other owners who fall below that amount, and eventually reach a final individual, all those who have ownership above 10%. It's good, I have to admit, that this bill envisioned a change in ownership amount from 10% to 25%, but the question is, is this in any way facilitating the obligation of both lawyers and other debtors in terms of this law? When he does all this, then he needs to make sure he has an insight into the original document, or a certified copy of the document, a copy of the public register, which must not be more than three months old. First, the very provision in practice did not find its basis and many deviate from its application, simply looking through the fingers if this copy is older than three months, because it is very problematic when it comes to, say, a foreign legal person. This member will be so burdened by the law profession that lawyers will be forced to, instead of being focused on what their work is, play private detectives or investigative judges, not to come under the influence of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15196	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 95, MP Mico Rogovic submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go. The word has a National MP, Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15197	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to article 95 of the proposed law. Article 95 states that the provisions of Articles 67 to 70 of the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing shall apply on the 180th day from the date of entry into force of this law and that from that date, the provisions of Article 9 of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering shall apply until that date. Article 95, my remark – why 180 days, not 60, as I suggested, is linked to Article 98, which states that this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Out of all, there is insufficient coordination and inadequacy of certain state institutions that the proposed law, which will surely be adopted by the ruling majority in this respected home, will be implemented at the same time. For the sake of citizens who are following the Assembly's meeting, I must point out that from Articles 67 to 70, the law provides for the transfer of physically transferable means of payment, which states in article 67 that the amount is allowed to be transferred across the state border in physically transferable means – up to 10,000 euros, and that citizens should know. More than 10,000 euros, all transferable payments shall be recorded at state borders, with the exception that Article 69 provides that the competent customs authorities may retain physically transferable payment funds of less than 10,000 euros, in a situation where there is no idea of why they are suspicious of the competent customs authorities, which retain that money, through the infringement procedure conducted at the NBS, until the end of the procedure at the Foreign Office, in the accounts of the NBS. I must also point out that Article 81 of this Act provides for a list of records, which, for all organs and for all persons, including the competent customs authorities, provides that the reasons why they are suspected of credibility or transactions or this time related to that amendment on transferable assets across the state border are being maintained. There's no reason for that. We know the Board of Payments since 2003... Mr. Chairman, if you think I can follow, and I can follow, who's banging, and at the same time I'm talking about such an important law, indeed, all the honors of it. The Payment Authority has since 2003 been a member of the "Egmont Group", and I must point out that it is the organisation of 108 countries, through which our monitoring board for money laundering, which is a large process in which the Republic of Serbia, in preventing money laundering, in particular preventing terrorist financing, could not participate alone, co-operate with the relevant world services, and it is financial intelligence services. It is an unexplainable fact, when it comes to the date of entry into force, that is, the debate on this bill, the inability of the state institutions and all those who have led to this care that, within a period of nearly six years, such an important law is not put into the assembly procedure, that is to say, it does not lead to realisation. As far as the law is concerned, I cannot help but say this, not because of us MPs, who have this law ahead of us, but because of the citizens of Serbia, that any cash transactions of 15,000 euros must be recorded. I'm asking you, Madam Minister, in particular - what are you going to do with the large-market system, which, in the past business, operate exclusively, even in a wholesale way, the cash system? I don't want to advertise any of those houses. You know, for example, a small shop, or a medium shop that deals with the sale of white equipment, in such a large trade chain can only be cash, for cash to buy goods for sale in its retail facility. Believe that the sum of 15,000 euros is very symbolic for such a business, such as traffic, or retailing of white technique. In the past experience, these systems in the territory of the Republic of Serbia exclusively operate in cash; there is no possibility of payment through a jury account, or through any other way of doing business other than cash, i.e. A card. Will certain measures be taken on these measures regarding the business of those chains? I'm glad that a lot of colleagues here have paid attention to the system, namely the provisions relating to the business of lawyers and their lawyers' offices. I have to point out that they're absolutely right. But lawyers can defend themselves. This is about, say, a system of debtors who have an obligation to be followed even through their accounting agencies. So the entire mandatory system is notified in that situation. That's why I've mentioned a little bit of the Payment Authority, because by this law the entire system, past the official state authorities, the system that exclusively serves to help the business, comes down to financial intelligence, i.e. spy work. Thank you very much. (During the presentation of MP Mica Rogovic, SRS MPs were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15198	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the proposing representatives want to give the final word? I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. In the day of voting, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and general We are going to move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal FOR A LAW ON TERMS (specificities) Mr Popovic, turn politely and sit properly. Mr. Nikolic, please do not disturb Mr. Popovic in monitoring the work of the Assembly. Thank you. You have received amendments submitted by Members of the People's People's MPs on the proposal for a book of origin: Vlatko Ratković, Milan Avramović, Mirko Munjic, Sulejman Spaho, Radiša Ilic, Nikola Savić, Zoran Krasic, Nikola Žutić, Milovanovic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Marko Milenković, Dusan Marić, Milan Škrbić, Paja Momčilov, Vladan Jeremic, Bojan Mladenov, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, Srdjan Mijaljević, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Momir Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Mićo Rogović, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. You have received an amendment delivered by Parliamentarian Milan Dimitrijevic to the amendment that he submitted to Part II of the Joint Provision and Correction submitted by MP Mico Rogovic to the amendment submitted to Article 11. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15199	Mr. Chairman, regarding the proposal for a law on parent books and its classification in the ordinary procedure and the illogicality of the classification of the previous two laws in the ordinary procedure, we've already talked about it, I don't want to talk about it again, I want to say what I wanted to achieve in Article 11. Most of the laws in the assembly procedure, among other things, we had a tax administration and tax administration law a few days ago, it is predicted that this part of the job, a very important job, related to the pursuit, registration and payment system of the tax administration, requires high professional preparation. In Article 11. The proposal for a law on books of origin was also proposed that the work of a mothermaker or a deputy mothermaker, in the text of the mothermaker, i.e. in the same context are also placed on the mother and foster parents, they can perform the ''who have a higher education acquired in second-degree studies (diploms of academic studies – master, specialist academic studies, specialist vocational studies) in the educational and scientific field of socio-humanist sciences, i.e. on basic studies of at least four years of social direction, passed a special examination for the mothermaker and the authority to carry out the mother's affairs'. My proposal is to delete in Article 11, the "major deputy", i.e. that the mother and vice-teacher are not the same category of person, at least not defined, not by the degree of education. Following Article 11, Article 1, the proposal is to add Article 2, which reads as follows: "Tiers who do not have the required level of education referred to in Article 1, may also be the parent(s) who, on the day of entry of this law, do not meet the conditions laid down in Article 1, and those tasks shall be carried out for at least three years, with the obligation to pass a special expert exam for the parent" within three years from the date of entry into force of this law. I hope Mrs. Minister notices what I wanted with this bill to separate, i.e. that the category – the parent and the substitute of the mothermaker, at least according to this specification, i.e. by acquired education, they differ. Certain categories, i.e. certain members of this law, deny Article 11. Proposal for this law; what Article 11 states exclusively what a parent should possess, certain members of the law, which I will later, on account of my amendments, deny. A banal situation may occur, for example, in practice, that someone became a parent two years ago, that he had 23 years of life and that for the rest of his life he remained a parent or a deputy parent in the degree of professional training he was currently in, with the fact that he had to pass a special expert exam for the mothermaker. In the rest of the time, I will talk about some other things, but I must say that by not passing this law until today's date of a special category of persons have been affected, and these have largely avoided internally displaced persons, in view of all the events that have taken place in the territory of ex-Yugoslavia in the last 20 years, unfortunately, all the events with the Serbian people and other citizens who are in the area now, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and before that they have lived in some other parts. It is illogical that the old law exists for over 35 years, and only some categories, i.e. some of the provisions of the old law, were changed in 2000, if I am not mistaken, of certain provisions relating exclusively to internally displaced persons from KIM, and categories of refugees, until the moment of adoption of this law, were not in a situation that some of their recorded problems could be solved on...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15200	Excuse me, Mr. Rogovic, just one second. I ask the MPs, especially from the part of the hall that is occupied by the representatives of the SRS, to shut down mobile phones, to stop broadcasting music that is reportedly heard and to behave politely, as is appropriate to a national MP in this room. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15201	All the time since 1970 and some years, certain provisions have been inconsistencies with the Law on Parent Books, with a series of changes in the provisions of individual laws, primarily, incompatible with the laws on state and local self-government, the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, citizenship, particularly with issues in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the arrangements of the local self-government system, established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the existence of laws in this area. This team, for example, 35 years ago, we didn't have a category of cities in the former SFRY, and in the last few years you know that Belgrade, as a territorial unit, is a city, and all the other cities that have, in the meantime, received that category, that status. It is therefore the application and adoption of this law on parent books, finally, after that certain period, for every commendation. I hope that, Madam Minister, you have indeed seen what I have proposed by the amendments to Article 11, i.e. mentioned in the amendment, wishes, especially in the category of education of the person dealing with the parent books, in the mother and vice-teacher. Thank you very much. (All the time speech by MP Mica Rogovic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15202	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, go ahead. The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic, the applicant of the amendment. At the same time, I am informing you, on the basis of Article 85, that we will continue our work after 18 hours, until the end of the period that is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15203	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns Article 12. I asked that in attitude one and attitude two, where it says "Minister," it says "Minister." It is obvious that the government appreciates and loves its ministers, so it has not heard this amendment. Compared to the government's explanation, I'd like to say something else. Obviously, you have an absolutely opposite situation in your power. You have an individual on top of the iceberg. That's exactly why this is the government's argument. With you, even if he is a minister, he may also be in charge of what the whole logic predicts that he could not be in charge. With you, many individuals have simply usurped power. They're untouchable. They think that they can do anything and really behave in a nice Ukrainian saying, which says: "If your calf grows silver, it is easy for you to get golden milk." But one thing is forgotten here, and that is that all those untouchables don't see a stream of hungry, unemployed, destitute, poor, and long ago it's been said that when the poor become a judge, it's time for the rich to leave the village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15204	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. There is a word from Madam Vice President Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15205	Mr. Chairman, because you and I, from that position of the chairman, can see that some MPs are breaking the Rules of Procedure, and your obligation, as chairman, is to establish it, I express my doubts on the basis of what I see, as you now share sides and say, the side on which Serbian radicals sit and where others sit. Here where parties of the ruling coalition sit, there are several identification cards, or no cards, but with the manner known to Mr Markovic, since he skipped two seats over the bench, so he inserted a card when voting on the Labour Act. You remember that "Salun" affair, Mr. Markovic. Nothing has changed, the system is working the same way, with more than one person identified on that side, and they are obliged, according to the Rules of Procedure, to carry cards with them. I will ask the gentleman or gentlemen of Serbian Radio-Television to take a picture of this side on the left of the pay phone and to see that there are no members, first of all, of the DS, only a few of them, and the G17 Plus parties, just enough to know who is working here and who is obstructing the Assembly. Scandals are moving on. In fact, there's been an unprecedented scandal. I have repeatedly said that both birds on the branch and small children know that Zoran Krasic is an institution in this highest legislative body. So yesterday, the people sitting outside the hall didn't see that Zoran Krasic was in the O.R. and he was here in general, and last night the session of the Assembly ended with him, or he was the last speaker. All of this has been brought to you by the new dictatorial Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15206	Thanks, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15207	So this isn't over. You can, uh, push the button, do whatever you want. They also exclude the Serbs in Shiloh's current, so they fight, and thank them for that, they fight for all of us. You call the service here to come and see what happened to the cards, and in the day of voting to plead – did you break the Rules of Procedure, because you did not react because some "spirits" are present in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15208	In the voting day, we could declare that you have called upon the provision of the Rules of Procedure which you consider to have been violated. Since you have not called, you have misused the Rules of Procedure, and attitude 4, so I warn you not to do so anymore. On Article 13, the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's no bearer. Thank you. On Article 15, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic. I apologize just once again, I ask the service to reset the system, so that we know exactly how many MPs there are in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15209	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, on Article 15. I have submitted an amendment to the bill on parent books, predicting that a third copy of the parent books is being introduced in our diplomatic and consular representations, with the third copy being kept in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, therefore, in your ministry. I hope you've read the explanation, because your answer brings me into a doubt. So, in your explanation, you replied – that in the practical part it is quite inaccurate. I don't see what's inaccurate about it. There is only one thing – the introduction of a third copy of the parent books. How can that be inaccurate? In your further explanation, you stated that it is deviating itself from the generally accepted rule in parallel law, which has been introduced into our legal system by the adoption of the 1946 Law on State Books. So we're going to Europe with the 1946 law. The point of the problem is, it seems to me, since there's little time for these controversial things to be cleared up, in one other thing. The point of the problem is in the Rules of Procedure. The application of such a rules of procedure comes down to a ruthless application of exclusively one-party "buquar". That's what I can call the Rules of Procedure. It does not open this Rules of Procedure the idea of a guide to accomplish new things, this Rules of Procedure opens up ideas of persecution. He doesn't open democratic processes, this is the kind of rules of procedure he owes. This Rules of Procedure does not declare war with the troubles of the state, but war is declared to those who complain and demand that the government leads a reasonable and responsible policy. Which people do you even think you're running against to keep them quiet? If they're a minority, what's with all the fuss and concern? If most of them are, well, is it possible that most of them think evil to themselves, to the state and to the entire people? So, things don't work out that way. That seems to me to be the question of how ideological and moral. A political stage is created in this Rules of Procedure, whose purpose is to suppress all that cannot be likened to one of the rules of procedure, which represents a one-party barrel. Gentlemen, MPs, businessmen can be destroyed, books burned, ideas and people persecuted, but life will only run by those laws that impose reality, and reality cannot be burned, but democracy, such a rule of law, can be suppressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15210	Thank you. On Article 17, the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpard Fremond. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15211	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, given that you have accepted the previous amendment relating to the same article, Article 18, I think it was possible and legally feasible to accept this amendment, or at least to in some way integrate it, because it reads this way - in Article 18, behind the words "letters", the words are added: "and the original name according to the letter and the spelling of the country for which it is entered". To be clear, it refers to those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are born in another country. Just because there are different speech areas, different language areas, imagine, let's say, the Anglo-Saxon area, the German language group, the Romanian language group, if all of this is recorded later in our Cyrillic letters, according to the spelling and standards of the Serbian language, then it is very often quite funny, and we also need to know that our language, especially in certain localities, has a wide variety of dialects. Then, translation of those names and writing into the parent's books made the document quite a bit, to say freely, funny. Therefore, the parallel registration of the original name according to the spelling and letter of the country in which the fact was created would mean, in fact, the seriousness of the document. I know the documents later, in application in some other countries, have to be nostificated, translated, but in this case it's important for the original document itself to be entered here. A citizen with such cases is not too much, and I think that would be completely feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15212	On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has Mr. Zoran Krasic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15213	I lost track of it, so I wrote an amendment to article 21. Is that what it looks like to you, that I'm getting lost? Here, look, as far as I can find it, the patient will pick up immediately. Article 21 regulates what needs to be done before any data is entered in the parent books and that member at the level of principle defines that matter. Of course, it relies on the provisions of the Law in general administrative procedure. In the last position of the proposed member, it states that the parent is obliged to verify all of this if any other data is available. Of course all of this must be done on official duty, because there is a presummation of the accuracy of any data that is entered in the parent books. The SRS's sin was that, after the 3rd position of this member, it asked for another new position to be entered, which allows every other interested person who wants to point to something, or to give some information of importance for the management of public books to be involved in the process. However, the ministry does not want it, they say all this has been regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act. By the way, I'll tell you, probably 70% of the employees in this or similar area, in local self-government units where entrusted jobs are done, this is a government job, but in the first degree, it's community administrations, so it's a confidential business, and I'm absolutely sure they don't even know that they're applying all those provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act that allow a person with some data to report. This amendment does not prejudge anything, but only gives a warning that it should also be taken into account before formal law enrolment becomes a presummation of accuracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15214	Thank you. On Article 21, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Nikola Savic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Parent Books, also to the 21st member, as counterpart Krasic, and I can say that this amendment is compatible with the previous amendment. I'll quote the amendment. ''Article 21 after Article 3 adds a new position 4, which reads: 'The time limit for verifying the data to which the interested party has indicated incorrectly cannot be longer than 15 days from the date of application'. In order for the amendment to be clearer, I must also quote the final position of the bill: “If there is a reasonable doubt that the information entered in the parent book is incorrect, the parent is obliged to check it before the entry. ” Doubt is an individual thing. Doubts very often can lead to abuse. How can this abuse be prevented when it comes to doubt? Only in a way to limit the time in which this doubt has to be proved or removed. That's why the amendment says that 15 days should be a deadline in which this thing has to be removed. This suspicion can be abused, especially in places where national minorities exist. I'd like to give you a few examples. You know, it happens to come, let's say, some member of the national minority, some Roma or any other national minority, and the official tells him -- you know, I doubt the information you listed is accurate and I have to check it out, and that check could take a year, five years, or I don't know how many. That's one of the reasons why this deadline has to be limited to 15 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15216	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15217	Mr. Novakovic, in order not to do, in your opinion, some new injury, so that you're charging us with that time from that time we don't have, I really think it's about time you explained things to us. What kind of way is it to turn off a microphone until a man finishes his sentence? If that's what you're doing, can you tell me what member of this office we're in? I must point out to the citizens of Serbia that there is something in KIM territory called KEK - the Kosovo Energy Corporation. It excludes electricity from Serbs. Now Mr. Nikola Novakovic, KEK of our democracy, has appeared to turn off the nice current, turn off the microphone, so the people can't hear anything. You probably buried parliamentaryism and democracy in Serbia today, because this is incomprehensible. It was 15 minutes ago after the amendment, so we couldn't get into your brain, so it would probably take 20 minutes to figure it out. No, you took off for two minutes. And what do you say? We're not interested in that at all. Your goal is to end something. Please tell me, on what basis are you shutting down the microphone, is it, perhaps, this Lazarevic, Hamovic's current with a higher frequency, so it disrupts the energy system? What's this about? You interrupt us anonymously, you demean the congregation, you demean the public word, you demean the right to have a different opinion. Once democracy was a form, once democracy was an alternative, today democracy is the majority. You once did not accept democracy as most, so you burned the Assembly, burned Belgrade, destroyed everything. In all variations, you destroy everything. Explain to us, please, on what basis are you shutting down the microphone?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15218	The provision of Article 143(4) states: “Every applicant of the amendment has the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes. ” I'm very careful that every applicant of the amendment at that time explains and ends the thought. I shut you down, you can check it out, because you've finished your previous thought, and it's started a new one, even though it's been two minutes. So that's the basis by which I turn off the microphone. I warn you that when you are advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you should call upon the provision that you believe I have violated, which you have not done this time, even though it is your obligation under Article 100(4), so do not do so in the future. If you're not satisfied with my explanation, in voting day, we'll decide on it. Here, you have a word to answer my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15219	Just what you said and the way you work, it shows that you hurt Article 104; it refers to dignity, but to the elemental dignity of every person who is treated as being written. In your earlier answer, you did not say the position that a member of the Rules of Procedure gives you the right to touch a button to turn off the current. You've been talking about imaginary provisions for up to two minutes. Where's the sequel? In two minutes and one second, the president is required to turn off the power. There's no such thing. There's no such thing. You're turning things around, as if Gordana Komic taught you how to hold a session of the National Assembly. I asked you nicely which member gives you the opportunity, the right, the authority to touch that key? That key is not a parliamentary category, it is not in the Rules of Procedure. Because of this taster, Radovan Bozovic was once bathed. I hope you take a shower every day, too, so there's no need for us to shower you at the end of the session. Find me a provision saying that the chairman is obliged to touch the key and turn off the power. There's no provision. I don't know how you're going to apply this rulebook from 17 when you get to that big building. How are you going to implement a provision to punish an MP for approaching the speaker, and everyone is going to speak from their place? There's something crazy going on with us. What about this democracy? This is a democracy with a feller. The yellow color is a special shade. You're ruining everything. Hold on a second, guys. I guess these parent books apply to you, too, and you're not all born abroad, are you? Do something good for this country. In every way possible, you want to destroy everything. Tell me, which member is it that says you can touch the key? Regardless of your answer, I ask that in the voting day you make a statement about it and that the public sees how you're going to vote against it, and we all know there is no provision for pressing the key.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15220	Thank you very much. Long before these two minutes were up, it was clear to me that you did not respect my explanation and, of course, the Assembly in the voting day would declare itself. Otherwise, I shower three times a day. Thanks for asking. On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24, the amendment was submitted by Tomislav Ljubenovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic, the applicant for the amendment to Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Rule 147 of the new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on parent books, and this is to Article 27, which refers to the way in which the parent books are kept. Article 27 of Article 1 states: "If the parent book in which a note is to be entered on the change in the status of the citizen is to be kept by another parent, the parent who made the enrolment shall be obliged to submit the report to the parent who is to enter the subsequent note immediately and at the latest on the next working day of the entry." I have proposed to the amendment that Article 27, after Article 1, point 2, which reads as follows: "The report to the parent who runs the parent book is provided according to the rules on personal delivery". This amendment has been submitted in order to achieve maximum urgency in the management of parent books. On this occasion, I must point out the too many problems facing citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were born in the village of Dol in the municipality of Bela Palanka in the last year. In the village of Dol, there are no residents, several years ago it became a weekend settlement, and the parent books were transferred from there. When someone born in Dol wants to take a biometric ID card or passport, he has to contribute a copy of the birth certificate and trust in citizenship. These documents now say: birthplace – Dolac. It's a place on the territory of the same municipality, but it has nothing to do with Dol City. Unable to obtain personal documents with incorrect documentation and untrue information to report as correct – this does not work. Citizens intervened several times in the MUP, in the Assembly of the Municipality, but the problem was not solved. It's time to explain my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15222	On Article 35, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Marko Milenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to the Bill on Parent Books concerns the amendment of Article 35(1), which defines the keeping of a second copy of the parent books. The amendment proposes that a second copy of the parent books be kept at the Ministry, not as provided for in the Bill, and outside the Ministry's seat, since the SRS's position is generally known that each record should be kept in the official place, not in some undefined place, because it then leaves room for various abuses. We know from practice very well that everything that is not precise and clearly regulated by law leaves room for various manipulations. I would convince the ruling majority MPs to vote in favour of this amendment, but the Rules of Procedure, with an explanation of the amendments within two minutes, does not allow it, because it is not brought into the spirit of fostering democracy and of a kind of dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, in order to find the best legal solutions for our citizens, but is denying the time to speak to the opposition, so as not to warn, control and force you to be better and more responsible. There is a question of motive for the adoption of this law. Whether it came out of need, to arrange matter, or because of the haste in Europe, putting on a white Schengen list, so that, in a desire to do business as soon as possible, certain irregularities arise, which can correct the acceptance of all amendments of the SRS. Finally, I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for not having enough time to explain the proposed amendment because of the discriminatory Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15224	Thank you. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic submitted an amendment, with a correction proposing that point 6 be added in Part II of the Joint Provision, after point 5. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in part two, I predicted that point 6, whose title is "Third copy of the book of origin", was automatically to be a member of 37, that the third copy should be introduced into diplomatic and consular representations, by keeping and keeping the third copy as in the members who regulate the preservation and management of the second copy. Accordingly, point 6 becomes point 7, and Article 37 becomes a member of the 38th and so on. So the essence of the story, as well as in that amendment to Article 5 of the Law, is that it is necessary to introduce a third copy in our diplomatic and consular representations. Why is that? Certainly also because of the update of the electoral list and because of those people who come from abroad to our country of origin, not to go to the foreign ministry, but to the competent authority, such as the state administration, to get a copy of the parent book or voting law or something else. So, the aim of these amendments was not to disrupt anything in the law, to bring down the concept of the law, but only to facilitate our citizens' way of getting to certain documents, and to finally edit that electoral list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15226	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Skribic isn't here. National MP Dusan Maric tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 42a be added after article 42a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15227	I have submitted an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 42, and that it reads: "After refusing to seek insight into the parent books, as well as the files on the basis of which the entry into the parent books, the persons referred to in Article 41 may, at the end of six months from the lawfulness of the refusal decision, submit a new request, if there are new facts and data which are not highlighted in the original request." Where, once the body referred to in Articles 6 and 4 refuses access to the parent books, as well as the files on the basis of which the entry into the parent books has been made, new circumstances and facts which the interested party points out may arise and should be allowed, if assessed as justified, to have insight into the parent books. The government rejected this amendment, with the following explanation: "Amendment is not accepted, since, according to Article 42. The draft law, upon refusal of the request for insight into the parent books, as well as the files on the basis of which the entry into the parent book was made, provides a solution to the procedure laid down in the General Administrative Procedure Act. The proposed solution is not in line with the Articles 239 to 250 of that procedural law." I don't think the government's argument is reasonable. You know what happened in the former Yugoslavia, you know that you've had 10 years of wars, you know that there's been more than three million people moving in, that there's been a destruction of huge documentation. In particular, I know that in the BiH area, and probably there is one in KIM, there are municipalities where the parent books have been completely destroyed. So it makes sense that some new data may appear in such circumstances. I think it's quite reasonable and logical, a team before it costs absolutely nothing, to allow people to re-apply this request, and if that's wrong, if it's not in accordance with some member of the law, that member of the law can change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15228	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) On Article 44, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by Miss Alexandra Ilic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15229	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, respected members of the government, respected ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, are among the most important historical documents of a nation. Thus, they are, in the historical foundation, a kind of national treasure. Under no circumstances should their destruction or disappearance be allowed. Article 6 of this law just explains the dangers that Serbs in Kosovo and in the Republic of Serbia face from Albanian terrorism, and the management of these books has been moved to municipalities in the territory of southeastern or central Serbia. That fact should have been constantly used in our diplomatic fight against the recognition of the false state of Kosovo. A people who must remove the management of their parent books, the only books in which all data and all birth movements, lives and deaths of those who are citizens of Serbia are entered into, have a serious problem and suffers serious aggression. Everything we didn't put in front of anger, fire and the sword of separatists and terrorists in Kosovo has been destroyed. It is therefore important to carry out specific documentation on the destruction, disappearance and renewal of the parent books, which is provided for in the sublaws. I believe that, right now, the law, in Article 44, which I have submitted to this amendment, must provide for a record of the circumstances of destruction or disappearance that will become an integral part of the parent book itself. Such a record, which could immediately, with the birth certificate itself, have insight into important historical circumstances, could be accurately and thoroughly reconstructed. In addition to representing the personal register of citizens and their personal documentation, the parent books are significant historical structures and provide complete insight into the most significant resources of one nation and one state, human resources. It must not be forgotten that parent books represent a kind of bridge between countries and can be a significant resource in establishing good bilateral relations. That's the case, so-called. The Danube Germans, who are happy to come to Vojvodina and explore their origins and family trees, with insight into preserved parent books. Because of the social and historical importance of the parent books, it is very important to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15230	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? On Article 47, the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is Mr. Momchilov here? (No) On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Jeremic want a word? (No) On Article 58, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Bojan Mladenovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, Article 58. The proposal for a law on parent books reads: "A marriage that is not concluded in front of a parent will be entered in the book of marriage only on the basis of the court's judicial decision to determine the existence of a marriage". This article allows a marriage concluded under some emergency circumstances to be entered in the parent books, if there is a judicial decision to determine the existence of a marriage. However, this article does not specify when and within what time the parent has to do so. Any delay can cause damage. I therefore believe that this deadline must be short and must be specified exactly until the parent has to make the enrolment. I have proposed an amendment to this article, in particular, to add Article 2, which reads: "This is the conclusion of a marriage that a parent enters in the marriage book of the married immediately after obtaining a court decision of law, and no later than the next day." By adopting this amendment, we would get the correct and precise position of Article 58, where the parent would commit to completing the enrolment no later than the next day. In an explanation of why the amendment was rejected, it reads: "The amendment is not accepted, because this question is already governed by Article 23. The bill of law." However, Article 23 paragraph 1 reads: "The parent is obliged to enter the reported information in the parent book without delay". What does that mean, without delay? If a parent has a lot of enrolments in those days, it may take a few days to enter the books. I think it is necessary to adopt this amendment, which would give us a clear and precise deadline for enrolment in the parent books of this marriage, i.e. that enrolment must take place no later than the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15232	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 61, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Mico Rogovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15233	Mr President, I hope that this time, in accordance with your powers and in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you will comply with the obligations laid down in Article 105 and in relation to Article 105. 104 and 103, especially after returning to the discrimination law procedure, for which the SNS expects to respect, in addition to the legal frameworks, and the customs and traditions of this people and in that segment, you will surely be invited to Article 105. All the time while SNS MPs, i.e. The "Forward Serbia" parliamentary groups are presenting for the speaker, a kind of discrimination is being conducted by a particular political group. Mr. Minister, proposing amendments to Article 61, i.e. His first position, I didn't require that attitude to be erased, and the government's argument is more incomprehensible than my proposal. For all others, I must point out that Article 61(1) of the Law states this: "The fact of death is that the members of the family he died with, and if these persons are not or are unable to do so, the other persons with whom he died or other members of the family who found out about death, or those in whose apartment death occurred, and if there are no such persons, the fact of death is to report the person who first learned of death." On the basis of what evidence and reasons is it in the proposed position of Article 61, the final point of view, that the fact of death is required to report the person who first learned about it? On the basis of which evidence may the competent authorities in the case of a case-by-case investigation or non-compliance relating to Article 61(1) come to the conclusion that you have given me in the light of the reasons? On the proposed change in Article 61, I assumed that the death factor was required to be reported by family members or other persons with whom he died, i.e. persons in whose apartment or facility death occurred. Here you automatically refer to the right of ownership, related to a residential facility, to a business facility and everything else. Once again, I note, I did not in the envisaged amendments to Article 61 of Article 1 provide that this position should be deleted, but that the authorities that decide on non-compliance with Article 61’s position may reveal potential perpetrators, or people who have violated this position. I don't see any argument in the explanation that you gave me that your proposal to Article 61 of Article 1 covers all persons, or all the objects in which death occurred. Indeed, once again, I appeal to the knowledge of the final position of Article 61 - no action can be established, and the person you are talking about in the said proposal for Article 61(1) cannot be identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15234	Thank you. Sometimes sounds talk more about those who produce them than about who they're meant to be. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: About the amendment to Article 61) The last one? I'm sorry. Here, you have a word. You've got 14 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll speak briefly. I'd like to convince the minister how absurd this attitude is that we're asking him to be deleted, because he's asking whoever first finds out about death to report it. It's always a doctor. None of us have the right to determine death. You can be absolutely convinced that you found a man dead, but you're not the one who realizes death. That's what a doctor has to do. It's absurd to oblige passersby, who can't figure it out, who don't have the right to realize it. In any case, death tends to be a doctor, not a face.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15236	Thank you. On Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted to the amendment, Mrs Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a book of origin, to Article 66. Article 66 is one of the members related to the birth certificates of the deceased. This article has three sections, three positions, and the amendment that I have submitted is that after Article 3 a new position 4 is added, which reads as follows: "In the manual on the management of parent books, the Ministry prescribes and taxively states what are the exceptional circumstances in which the fact of death is entered in the sense of Article 3." In an explanation, I have stated that such a solution avoids arbitrary interpretation of what is considered to be extraordinary circumstances in which the entry into the home book of the deceased parent areas is made in which the site of death is inhabited. This also achieves the necessary legal certainty for such an enrolment. The ministry's explanation for which the amendment is rejected, states that the amendment is not accepted because the provision of Article 66(3) in general covers any form of an emergency situation, but is prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other laws. I would ask Mr. Minister, without insulting and respecting all the parents, without any diabolical idea, whether he believes that the parents know what extraordinary circumstances are under the Constitution and the law they should use when enrolling in the books of the dead? I think this amendment should be respected precisely because, otherwise, there may be injury and misreading of the state of emergency, so that the parties are in some way damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15238	Thank you. On Article 71, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Sure, go ahead, Mr. Myalevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15239	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, of course I will explain the amendment. I don't want to deign you my speech from the pay phone. I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 71, which is amended and reads: "O the corrections of errors in the parent books being conducted in the diplomatic and consular representations are resolved by the head of the diplomatic and consular representation, which is subject to special records". The Government has rejected the amendment, with reasons – the amendment is not accepted, since the acts subject to Article 71 are being rejected. The draft law keeps records according to the regulations on office operations. With this amendment, we allow at any moment in the diplomatic and consular representation to have insight into the corrected errors in the parent books that are being conducted there. Was that a mistake made by accident or on purpose? If that mistake was made on purpose, it means that someone was trying to cover up some information, to conceal that these data are being misused, perhaps for some terrorism, perhaps to gain some privileges that someone doesn't deserve. Given that the checkup is rising to a higher degree, of course there should be some records about it. You can't just check it out for a little while, correct the mistake, and that someone who needs to check it out after a few years, the same person, doesn't know what it's about. The amendment is only subject to a special record – it is a special book, because it is also a special error, which corrects a higher body than that which has written it in books, and we think that it is better to have a record more than a record less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15240	Thank you, Mr. Myalyevich. On Article 72, the amendment was submitted by Milan Dimitrijevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15241	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, something that runs through the entire law, is an amendment to Article 72, where it is said to introduce a third copy of the records of the parent books, kept in the Ministry of State Administration's affairs. You refused that amendment, with an explanation as well as the first amendment I submitted. In just over an hour, we've run through thirty amendments to one very important law, and it's saying something. He talks about the state of the spirit in Serbia and talks about the situation in the Republika Srpska Assembly. What is the situation in the Serbian Parliament? One boast of power, irresponsibility, reading material, which is why we get the answers we get, the reasons why these amendments are being rejected. To remind the ruling coalition and the public of some of the events I am now talking about, these are amendments in the same text submitted by MPs of position and opposition. What happened then? The amendment of the MPs to the position was accepted and the amendment, in the same text, was rejected by the opposition MPs, with such arguments – calling for legal provisions from 46, etc. And the story of entering Europe. Is the 1946 law going to Europe? Is that why you refuse the amendment? Do the amendments require further efforts and financial resources? They don't ask. What's the problem? The problem is clear. There is no communication, nor does the ruling coalition want any communication, especially the well-intentioned one, especially one that leads to the improvement of the law, and it speaks enough of the government that is currently in Serbia. All of this is remembered, all of this remains recorded, and the statements of the opposition MPs, and the introduction of concrete things that make the laws wrong, and that responsibility will be on you. The responsibility is that every kind of policy has its own origin, and the outcome of such a policy is the bad life of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15242	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 89, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Rogovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15243	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, I cannot recall whether the moment I explained the amendment to Article 11, due to the amendment to Article 89, which was in direct connection with the amendment proposal for Article 11, the minister was there. In view of that fact, I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to take a look at the reasons for Article 11, on the basis of which they are submitted to the proposed article 89. ''Mothers and vice-mothers who, on the day of entry into force of this law, do not have a higher education acquired at second-degree studies in the educational and scientific field of socio-humanist sciences, i.e. in basic studies, for at least four years of social direction, continue to carry out jobs if they pass a special professional exam for the parent, within three years of the date of application of this law. ''In view of the proposed amendments to Article 11, the proposed Article 89 is in direct connection with this and would suffer the changes, and behind the words "businesses" should be added to the words "major deputy", because these are all arguments covering the reasons for submitting amendments to Article 11, which are directly related to changes in Article 89. The reason for the change of members cannot be understood without the direct link between the change of Article 11 in its first position. I would use the time left for the SNS MP's group "Forward Serbia" to present some more details. In addition to basic things, due to the absence of the law in an extremely long period of time, given all the arguments mentioned above, which are, primarily, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which implies the territorial arrangement and organisation of local self-government, all the other reasons that we have instructed under these grounds, the aforementioned categories of persons are satisfied that this law will enter into force these days, given that the seas of problems related to these categories will be able to address these categories by this bill, i.e., already by law. What is evident, and conflicts with the part of the problem in this law, is a certain procedure prescribed for the conditions for persons performing primary tasks, i.e. Matrimonials and deputies should own the country, i.e. the Republic of Serbia, and those who do these tasks in diplomatic and consular representations, a certain provision. It is possible, possibly, to introduce a test to check those persons, even by electronic means, because provisions relating to diplomatic and consular representations say that these jobs are dealt with in these institutions, i.e. e. e. e. e embassies, by persons authorised by the ambassadors to carry out these tasks. The issue of expertise has never been established, apart from the direct responsibility of those persons, whether they really possess capacities in these institutions to carry out these tasks, and their privileged position in relation to persons who have to pass a special expert exam on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the possibility of introducing order in the application of this law and in those institutions, i.e. diplomatic and consular representations should be considered and, eventually, later, by various sublegal acts, some measures taken. The citizens of Serbia should be satisfied with the application of this law, especially because so far the troubles associated with obtaining documents from their parent books, which they had, will not be reported by applying this law, but it seems to me that in your opening statement, you said that this procedure would be five years, because of all the information systems. I think it can be shortened in that segment too, because, like some other incidents related to this law, it can question this law, this five-year process to introduce information technologies. It would be desirable, on behalf of all citizens, on behalf of all of us, that this process speeds up as soon as possible, that the process of issuing documents from the field of office business, i.e. parent books, in practice live within as short a time as possible. Thank you. (All the time the presentation of MP Mica Rogovic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15244	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 90, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mrs. Pop-Lazic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 90, which provides that the Ministry of Administration will take over from the Ministry of Home Affairs a second copy of the book of origin, no later than five years after the date of application of this law, believing that this is too long if we want to implement this law in practice as soon as possible and making it easier for citizens to issue various assurances. So I suggested that that deadline be three years. The question is, why did you ask for a deadline this long? Perhaps because it is estimated that 350 million dinars are needed for this purpose, because you said that these funds will be part of the budget and part of the National Investment Plan. Obviously, the money's gone and you don't count on you to have it, but you could have found it on the other side. One of my colleagues today presented the fact that the daily spending of 30,000 euros is solely for the search, for the arrest of General Mladic, which is at a monthly level about 900,000 euros and on an annual basis – 10m euros. If you would stop doing this dishonest work, you would have money not only for this, but for a lot of what. Secondly, since you did not find it appropriate, for you I will give an answer to one of the previous debaters, who apparently graduated from some correspondence schools – that the finding of death is performed by a doctor, and that reporting death can be done by someone else. So, finding death and reporting death isn't the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15246	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 91, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Markovic isn't in the O.R. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Rogovic, please. The proposal to add a new member of the 95th was submitted after article 94, by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, adding a new member of 95 after article 94. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Mr Milan Markovic, the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, want to give the final word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only thank you for the attention you have given in the debate on this law and to express my confidence that this, regardless of not being politically attractive law, is one of the most important laws when it comes to reforming the state administration and our step towards what is called electronic administration. In fact, this law will not deprive citizens of unnecessary burdens, such as extracting copies every six months, i.e. using copies of not older than six months, and will be able to extract copies in any municipality, regardless of where the parent books are kept, but is, in fact, the basis for the creation of the parent records as the basic records at the national level, the basic records of citizens. The home records are the basis from which citizens' records are obtained, and then everything else goes much easier; the electoral list will one day be a subset of citizens' records, etc. So, this law is, indeed, for many things significant, very significant. Not only will it make it easier for citizens to do many jobs, but it will also make it easier for the authorities of the state administration to do many jobs, and I say, it is the first true step towards introducing an electronic administration in the Republic. That's why I'm glad that you've supported these new solutions through your presentations, the truth, after 20 years. I am sorry that no one has done this before, but we have come to the opportunity to do so, to bring new solutions, which will change very much the procedure, and also the way of life in Serbia in the future. Thank you again for your understanding, and I urge you all to vote in favour of this bill, because he has no political omens. This is a law that should help our country and our citizens to implement the many procedures that are now burdening us and very often annoying and making everyday life very difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15248	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hereby conclude the review of the proposal for a law on parent books in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of EXPROPRIATION (specificities) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milica Vojić-Marković, Sreto Perić, together Jovan Palalić and Milos Aligrudić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, together Milica Radović and Milos Aligrudić, Milan Dimitrijevic, Zoran Popović, Đuro Mučenski, together Milos Aligrudić and Miroslav Petković, Mirko Munjic, Radica Jocic, Goran Mihajlović, Ljubomir Kragović, Milan Avramović, Radiša Ilic, together Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalić, Aleksandar Pejčić, together Miroslav Petković and Milos Aligrudić, Dragan Šrš, Migrazić and together. National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic, written on the way, withdrew the amendments they submitted together to Article 7(5). It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Finance Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Mr. Aligrudic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15249	I don't know how to handle this. I must refer to a general provision on what your obligations are in article 27. When, as you say, we're "by this point," although they're connected, and they're not connected, because they're separated, and when they're separated, time is divided through three, or into uneven intervals of time. So it's not clear to anyone what we're actually doing here, but it doesn't matter, we obviously can't agree on that. I am interested in this - in the material that we have received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is your job to take care of what we receive from the material, what is shared with the MPs, and how we are discussing individual amendments, two amendments by Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic were shown to be only one amendment to Article 7, one in Item 2, and the other in Item 5, shown as two separate amendments, and there can be only one amendment. We've made one correction to bring these two amendments together into one. This should have been regularly passed by the Legislative Committee and should have been considered as an amendment. We have two amendments here, and that's an impossible situation. You had to take care of this. It is not clear to me how we can hold a debate at all about the two amendments of the same MPs to the same member of the law; it cannot be. There is one amendment, and that amendment is not shared with us. So the MPs couldn't get government material saying the government had given an opinion on a single amendment to Article 7 submitted by Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. I ask you to determine this question first, so we can do technical action at all, because I don't see how we're going to do it, or we can stop the moment we get to Article 7, and then we can take a break and see what happens. There's no government representative here either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15250	Mr. Aligrudic, you have submitted two amendments to one member, after which you brought it together. The government was considering it, she didn't have to, but she considered it as if you had two amendments per member. Anyway, I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure in the assembly procedure. What the government did, we'll let her know that we're discussing this as an amendment. Here you go, Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15251	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join the advertising of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, which was pointed out by counterpart Aligrudic. I think it's clear to all MPs how a certain procedure is conducted here. We submitted one amendment to one member, then the government separated it. I don't see a minister and a representative of the government who could give us an answer to that question, so I ask you to provide us with the minister's presence, so that we can clarify this situation and further discuss the details of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15252	The answer is very similar. We'll ask the government to explain what happened. There's no damage to the procedure here in Parliament. We'll ask the government to explain in writing how she analyzed your amendments, that's all I can do. You'll get an answer, certainly, and from them, during that time period that is business-planned. Madam Minister is monitoring this via television, please, it has a temperature of over 39. So, follow everything, he'll be able to respond to all your objections. Let's work today. She's following it, but, for health reasons, she's not able to attend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15253	Article 143 of the 27th and other members relating to the presence of a person in the National Assembly who are required to discuss the laws. The debate of the law in particular assumes a debate on amendments. For reasons of integrity and rationality of the further search, I'm stopping what I started to say, because Mrs. Minister has just entered the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15254	I thought we could let Mrs. Secretary watch, follow and come to answer, sit down and have tea in the room upstairs, but if you don't agree, let her be here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15255	So, Article 104. Please don't insult us. That's what I asked you yesterday, and then again, you scurryly responded to my requests, and now you keep doing it. What does it mean that Mrs. Minister can sit and drink tea? Then why don't I, as an applicant of the amendment, go sit and drink tea and get on the phone, or I don't know which way to turn it on, on TV, and explain to you what's in my amendment? That doesn't make sense. If there are no conditions for debate and debate, let's postpone for tomorrow, when the minister is better, and work as a human.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15256	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. I gave MPs and the public a medical reason why I thought we could do it differently. Whenever we agreed, I learned that from you, we could strictly disrespect the procedure, which did not go to the expense of quality. All right, Madam Minister is here and we're going to continue our work. On Article 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Krassic, you've been throwing yourself out of place the whole time. I'd ask you not to, or I'll have to give you a hint.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15257	I told you to hold my hand in the air for 16 minutes and that I applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15258	It's not a good watch.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15259	Not a good watch? Now you look like Bosko Ristic to me, as he sought official state time and official state watch. I called in Article 27. What's this about? This is really unrecorded in practice from 1991 to today. Please, he has to be a representative of the government here. Who will be the government's representative? You've seen yourself for the past few months to do flying replacements. You explained that Mrs Dragutinovic has some health problems. Of course we don't insist on her being here. That's what someone needs to know. That's what the public needs to know. There are vice presidents, other ministers, etc. If the lady has health problems, she shouldn't be here. Why would she worsen her health despite the difficult financial situation in the country and be called the finance minister? There's always 40 missing in the vault and something billions, every day. We don't want you to create a situation right now that the public suspects that we are here in health destroying members of the government. That's not what we're thinking. We want to talk about the amendments and we want it to be any of the government's representatives. You used to bring that bradic here, even though it was something else, and the one for the faith, and then we decided he was authorized, because only faith could save us, so you brought that Dulic, the orthopedist, and he, the poor guy, played something here, etc. Please don't insult us. The government has its problems, the DS has its problems, let them solve them elsewhere. There are so many ministers, whoever sent them, there's no problem. This is how you created the situation so that we have something personal against the lady who's the finance minister. No, we don't mind. There are a small number of ministers in this government who have fundamental respect for the National Assembly, as is the case with the lady.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15260	Your last sentence is absolutely correct and I support it. So, Mrs Dragutinovic really respects Parliament, and that is why I thought that we too would be able to respect its health reasons. I am convinced, Mr. Krasic, that if you had health problems, Mrs. Dragutinovic would show great understanding. I've already given my word to Miss Milic Vojic-Markovic. You'll get your word right after her, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15261	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since I come from a conservative party, the DSS, I will address this opportunity from the Assembly Hall of Parliament, and I will leave these more modern MPs, so to speak. Europeans, to speak from Bodrum, to drink tea, to watch the Eurovision and to turn the Assembly into a Eurovision, giving MPs two minutes to seriously explain the amendments. Therefore, my amendment is to Article 1(2), which reads - immovableities can be expunged or property can only be limited to public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than the market price. Why did I write this amendment? Simply, I wanted to make the amendment more specific about the nature of the compensation, because the fee by its nature cannot be marketable, the only price can be marketable. That's why, after the word "marketable," which is in this article, I added the word "price". What is quite clear, is that the law, which is from 1995, seems to me, is quite inadequate for today's conditions, so I expected the result of this new law to be more quality provisions, to make the changes more comprehensive and quality. What I see is that the law is causing a lot of misunderstandings, especially those concerns that it is not in line with the Construction Planning Act, because some of the provisions of one law and another are in line here. In this first, we need to determine the plan act, and in the second, we have a situation for the government to assess what the public interest is. Furthermore, what also causes the problem is that the circle of the users of the expropriation is expanding and that is why the possibility of abuse is great. That's why I think we should be very specific and I'm offering it with my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15262	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Krassic, would you like some? You advertised the Messenger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15263	In order not to interpret that something is repeated in my presentation, I will now tell you that you have violated a whole series of provisions of this Rules of Procedure, starting with Rule 27, especially that third position, or third indent, and then Article 104 to Article 143. Now I'm going to explain what this is all about. You do not have the need, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to interpret what I said, especially to interpret my emotional state and the emotional state of Mrs Dragutinovic, what would she do if, by chance, I had a temperature of 39 degrees, or what I would have happened to her. You can do that with your patients, when you're wearing a coat and going to a health care institution. Here you are the president of the National Assembly, the speaker who gives the word and who channels the debate, the order of reporting. My presentation was not about Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, but about the government, which in some other, perhaps unwarranted situations, found three or four replacements, and now, in a clearly justified situation, they are not able; they probably went to some banquet. Don't confront me with Mrs Dragutinovic and don't praise me for how much I appreciate her being here several times when her bill was and respecting the problems the state has with public finances. You are simply not authorized to interpret my emotional state. If, by any chance, I were to express my emotional state, probably my speech wouldn't last three seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15264	Mr. Krasic, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I am a speaker and someone who gives a word and channels the atmosphere, but sometimes I have to give an explanation to make it logical, otherwise it might as well be a robot in this place if that's what you say. Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied, in the day of the vote, we can make that clear. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15265	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I want your temperature to drop as soon as possible, so you can normally carry out your activities. Thank you for coming. Madam President, you are a doctor, a well-respected, well-respected professor at the Medical School, but here you are the president of the National Assembly; there is no need, and indeed you have created one gap between the SRS MPs and the finance minister. We didn't ask for the Minister of Finance to be present, Mr. Ilic could, too, worshiped by the DSS, can't wait for him to show up. Madam President, let me warn you, after two minutes, I will speak as an authorised representative of the SRS, so I have that time. I have submitted an amendment to article 6 of the law, and I must, Madam President, tell you that I am surprised. You may also make me offended, because when you discuss in principle the law on amendments and amendments to the Expropriation Act, the lady who sat next to you and you are the largest number of objections I have made to this law. However, no SRS amendment has been accepted. We knew the behaviour of the "Government of the Republic of Serbia", more we trusted you, unfortunately, proved that our trust, or faith, was too naive. We didn't get caught up in the concept reasons of the law, but only in what would speed up the process of expropriation, the process itself. That was not enough reason to accept these amendments. I need to read the contents of Article 6 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, so that those who follow this transmission can understand what we're talking about. "The Land to serve a certain need in connection with the construction of buildings" is the text of a applicable law, it is added: 'and the establishment of a service, for which according to this law is established public interest', it is a newspaper, ''' (for the accommodation of workers, materials, machinery etc.) may be temporarily busy and for up to three years (temporary occupation). The temporary takeover will be lifted as soon as the need for which the land is determined is restored to its original state. '"I suggested that the restriction does not last three years but two years. It is a very interesting argument of the government which is why this amendment is not accepted. It is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the deadline laid down in Article 6(1). The Expropriation Act, in the following text of the Law, considers it appropriate. Please, has one of you, on your immovableity, been expropriated to see what it looks like in practice, so that you can now estimate that this is the right time? It should be seen in practice which is the appropriate time and what consequences, or the damage suffered by the owners on the real estates that are temporarily exploded. And this article indicates that we have a regular, or permanent expropriation, and the possibility of temporary expropriation. It is further added, "As a temporary measure does not change the property relationship on land, it is temporarily restricting the landowner's rights". This is where you insult intelligence and our ability to understand what it's all about. It is clear to us, and then and now I speak - temporarily and not permanently, and we did not want to cut the deadline. So it's not three, it's two years, because that's enough. It speeds up the time needed to carry out the work, which is why the state has also executed the expropriation, and the reminders for the sake of it, expropriation is a forced confiscation of ownership, property rights to immovable property, if public interest is established before that. The guarantee that our property has serious protection is provided by Article 58. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law and says property law can only be temporarily restricted in cases provided for by law, if there is a public interest. Item 3 of Article 58 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia suggests that a temporary restriction of property on certain immovableities is possible, so it can be limited to a certain time. In the reasons for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Expropriation Act, you explained that they could be divided into two groups, i.e. two categories. The first category is, as you said, a legal-technical nature, where exactly the provision of Article 58. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that 'general interest' is replaced by the words 'determining public interest' and you have cited the fundamental differences. These fundamental differences are problematic for us from the SRS, because I have to tell you, respected citizens of Serbia, that you who have had a great ideological resistance to the communist regime now have a reason more. During the communist regime, expropriation was carried out to establish social property over private property. True, our relationship to social property has been like a relationship to Alajbeg's straw, it's nothing, but it will now appear very often in practice. Madam Minister, I'm guessing you're not up for this, but they set this up for you to be a representative of the government under this law. Here will be expropriated by the immobility of private property, so that later it can be realised not for the public interest, but, precisely, for the private interest, so that individuals who have done so so far will profit by taking up land, which Mr. Petar Jojic very often spoke to you about, pasture, morning and other, with a symbolic fee, without any compensation. Now you will try, on the basis of constitutional powers, and through this law, to take quality agricultural and other land from their real owners and to hand it over to the tycoons in Serbia, so that they increase the price of agricultural land multiple times. Madam Minister, this is going to happen because if someone in the local self-government knows what will be done on a particular territory, it will very actively and intensively enter into action to turn agricultural land into building land, and there is always a reason for public interest. When the process of confiscation is completed from the real owners, then the transfer of ownership will take place and then we will have one big problem and a big con of Serbian citizens. There are warnings here for nothing, I'd say. Who should be punished because someone who has proposed the adoption of this law says – considering the possibility of solving problems without passing laws? The reason for this law is – considering the possibility of a problem without the law being passed. It is indeed an insult to intelligence, to insult the common sense of every normal citizen, if the Constitution has said that private property is guaranteed, that it can only be restricted under the conditions laid down by law, and someone has found himself here to offer a variant of the possibility of solving the problem without passing the law. Then it is said in reason – we have seen that there is no other option, that there is no better option than to pass the law. This happens very often to you, I don't know if in all the laws you're authorized by a representative here, or a representative on behalf of the government, but this is happening in almost every other bill. This is ridiculous. I don't know if those people who write those suggestions, who help you work, think, and what, while they're doing this? SRS MPs not only read these bill proposals, but follow how they are applied and in practice. Serbia has no problem with a small number of laws, with a poor legal system. Yesterday, when we had the Educational Council on the agenda, you saw that there was a law that regulated that problem well, but you saw that the report said, "The big problems are beyond our possibilities." There are 42 members, but the problem, that is, the adoption of a school development strategy, is beyond their ability and they cannot solve it. I warn you once again, it is at least your fault, your relationship with the National Assembly and with the MPs is correct, but I suppose you must actively participate in the government, as its member, not only in the matter of the laws of which you are represented, but also in other matters. Assistant Minister, or Secretary of State, although for me all State Secretarys are not and state secretaries, manipulates the public, manipulates tobacco producers and their association, gives some information to agree something with tobacco producer representatives, which is absolutely not true. If you can't help Serbian citizens to live a little better at this point, which you promised in the election campaign, at least don't deceive them, don't lie to them, because it can't serve you honor. Instead of focusing our strengths, really doing what we're here for, we're putting it aside here. I have great regrets for the MPs who support this government. I am absolutely certain that the legal proposals we are considering, the way we are working in the National Assembly in the last 2-3 days, especially since yesterday, are not in your understanding of democracy and parliamentaryism quite right. It looks more like something dislocated, but you're staying silent bystanders. You have no right to do that. You have to have an active role, just like the MPs of the SRS do. When you go somewhere in the field, you will be asked by those who supported you, "Why we don't live better now, when you said it before," and you will say that it is some legislator's fault. And since you're all-powerful, you know a lot of people and officials, they're going to ask you if you know this man as well. What will you say to them, that is us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15266	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15267	Before I try to explain to you what this is about, I need to draw attention to the fact that the Expropriation Act was passed in 1995. When those who set fire to the National Assembly came, and now something is being renovated, in 2001 they made one decorative amendment to that law on expropriation and said it was a modern European law. As you can see, since 1995 it's been the best law. The question now arises: Why does this law change in 2009? A new constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been adopted, no longer exists in general, but in the public interest, so that legal and technical redistribution is necessary, but it is not essential. Then the question arises: what does the proponent tend to do when he changes these other provisions, a team before expropriation is a legitimate way of moving private property into state property? Since it is in all legal systems and is guaranteed by all conventions on human rights, private property is sacred and citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know: when respecting your right to property, it is a material assumption of your right to live, for your freedom, for your freedom to choose, because you do not depend on anyone, you do not depend on the state, you do not depend on the employer, but your property is a guarantee of your freedom. Mr. Sreto Peric requested that the original text of Article 6, paragraph 1, be changed and that the temporary occupation of land, because on the neighbouring land, which has been exploded, be built by some object, not three, but two years. Why? Well, if something is temporary, then the time frame of the temporary should correspond to what it was established for, with respect for what private property is as sacred. They say, no, it'll be three years, with a tendency, if it can, 20 years. Now I have to turn to something even more important in this operation to amend the Expropriation Act. Be careful, the existing law and those previous laws allowed, for example, the Republic, the municipality to initiate a procedure to carry out some expropriation, that some immovableity, primarily meant land and buildings, would move into state property, with some fair compensation, which could also correspond to a market price, which is not disputed. If the administrative procedure is not agreed, there is a possibility in the out-of-pardon procedure, so that the municipality, formally-legal, became a user and one who manages this exploited land that is being brought to some purpose, and then, in the privatisation process, it becomes private again, but is no longer the old, real, authentic owner, but, by means of the municipality, became the property of Miskovic, "Delta", Draculić, Hamovic, Lazarevic, these tycoons that finance this side of the National Assembly. What did they propose in Article 2 of the amendment to the Expropriation Act? That this temporary occupation, due to the construction of a building next door, is expanding to the establishment of office on neighbouring land. So they're moving on, they're real, consistent ideological followers, since 1945. "I don't give my own, I touch someone else's, it's, dude, communism." This is the Democratic Party. The eighth session is over by the brotherly reconciliation of both factions. One of them became yellow in the meantime, one of them was no longer that red, so it came together in the color "Yugopetrol", red and yellow. It's an ideological consequence. I brought this to show you. Most of them are yellow, until they're Democrats, and these minorities are socialists. It's exactly the right ratio. Of course, there's a "cevet" here, because of the stress that happens every day in the congregation when a man dares to write an amendment, because it's a big heresy to write an amendment. That's forbidden. Remember, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in 2-3 months, there will be no more transmissions, and then we will see each other in the squares, in the streets, fighting for the right to live. These are endangering our right to live. As far as sovereignty and territorial integrity are concerned, they don't know, they've already sold it out. Don't make that any more potent, take it as a presummation that they've destroyed, so now we're fighting for the right to live. Of course, the opposition serves to be an opposition to those who destroy life in the Republic of Serbia, destroying the strategic values of this people. We're fighting for the right to live. Of course, we MPs are the first ones to get our backs, and we're supposed to get our backs, these fines, and this. It's a tough fight for democracy. Blood must be released for democracy, out of torment. They have to try these new sticks. It used to be "a condom against the cordon," and now it's going to be "the people against the cordon". That's what this is about. These changes are necessary precisely for that. The local government is now changing because it is necessary to conduct an expropriation, formally-legal, for a unit of local self-government, and essentially – for the tycoon that has brought you into power. I spoke in Zemun, he sold the man the location before the election, made sure his buddy was mayor, and the mob's looking for his own, we gave him money. Where's the location? It's across from the Gerontology Center. They have to change the rules on expropriation. These are the rules of kidnapping. This is where the kidnapping is placed in the legal framework. It's becoming legal. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, kidnapping will become legal because it requires most, because it supports kidnapping, because there is no punishment here for kidnapped - cursed. Once you don't punish the kidnapping, then it's no longer a precedent, it becomes a rule of conduct and goes into the legal framework. When it enters the legal framework, then we'll have to lustrate you later. It is an abuse of thinking about how some law will be passed and how it will apply, with a hidden intention to violate human rights. This is a confession to violate human rights. It has nothing to do with Corridor 10, it has nothing to do with the construction of cities, it has nothing to do with the support of Ljubljana, that they export via our certificates, allegedly, to Russia. Hell, it's none of that. The Russian Customs Service won't allow that. He has a personal interest, one mayor and another mayor, because here personal interest is presented as a public interest. That's why we've been writing amendments, and that's why we're warning you, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this will temporarily become a permanent patient state. Who can change this state? Only citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How? Get away from these two colors. Avoid Boris Tadic. He's throwing a rally, running home and closing up. What they have achieved from what they have promised. Only negatively compared to what they promised – 300,000 people would lose their jobs, and he promised 500,000 to hire. Our banks are stable, we're looking, none of them are stable right now, they're all falling apart. Where are our foreign exchanges? In America, England and Germany. Why? They don't believe in these, either. They know their specific weight. In order not to fail their loans, they've kept it there, I've warned you since October and you didn't believe it. And a few days ago, we were called in, called out – have respect for state banks. Two days ago, Mrs Dragutinovic called here to have several state banks and to pay back the money. Don't pay back the money. They'll take it all away from you. They'll take it all away from you. We talked about the Red Flag, don't move those Jugo machines, there's none of this, so I was still praying some, come on, save those machines, don't go into old iron, etc. He says it's a big project. "Fiat" is flat in Italy. They've fooled everyone. You waiting for free action, which is supposed to be worth calling Mladjan Dinkic. What about that Babi's Tooth, what's it called, Grandma's Hook, Babin Zub, at the Bookie's, who bought the land for new hotels? You know what, the other side of the expropriation story is the Law on Planning and Construction. That's what they're adapting to. They don't do well with that 2003 Shumartz law, which guarantees 15 days' construction license. Who got a building permit in 15 days? He's got Miskovic, he's got Beko. Who else has got it? The expropriation goes symbolically through this law and refers to the immovableity. When it is said – immovableity, it is thought of land and building facilities. Basically, this law extends to both water and air and to your lives. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, take care of what you do and run from the yellow-red coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15268	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, go ahead. The word is Mr. Aligrudić, you can speak for 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15269	As we have said in the principled search, so in this joined-separated search in particular, we will stress that this is about a bill which, in our view, significantly violates the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is the right of property. It can only be limited by law, for reasons of public interest, and the public interest can only be prescribed on the basis of the standards laid down by law and in the manner prescribed by the law. However, the reference in this whole story is in the following, if you are breaking the basic principle by law and allowing the basic principle, which is protected by the Constitution, then you have mocked the entire legal system and the law itself and the Constitution itself of the Republic of Serbia. When it is said to be an unimpaired right that can only be severely restricted, so the legislator is obliged to limit it extremely, not to understand and imagine the various measures that can be applied, or legal solutions, so that this expropriation takes place as much as possible, in order not to extend as much as possible the basis for establishing so-called. Public interest, and yet for violent, because the state is by nature in some part of violence against the individual, in order to force someone to deprive themselves of their ownership or right to use. That is how you introduced the concept of a company that can be established by a public undertaking in Article 3. Companies with majority state capital can be founded by the Republic of Serbia and an autonomous province, the city, the city of Belgrade and the municipality, which could be users of expropriation. In the current legal text, this possibility did not exist. The key question here is, who did you have in mind? State? I don't think so, because for a later amendment, which you refused us, you wrote the following in your explanation, because there were words about whether or not to accept a cumulative condition for the initiation of the expropriation process, therefore, and a plan act, because there's always something going on here. Explosion is done for the construction of buildings, or is done for mining of minerals, minerals, etc. There's a plan. Now, you don't need a plan act, apparently, because here the essence of expropriation is the security of the non-money role of the Republic of Serbia according to a joint investment contract - a business society. Now it looks like a dog chasing its tail, spinning in circles and never catching it. They'll catch him at some point when you answer our question, who did you have in mind? You didn't have the state in mind here. If you had in mind state or public enterprises, you wouldn't have written this amendment. You had in mind private capital, which you know in advance, to provide him with a job and to ensure that the state has its non-financial stake in a company in which private capital will be provided in such a way as to expropriate someone's land and other objects. In other words, with a market fee, take it away, because it would never occur to someone to sell the house and deprive them of their land. That's what he has to do, because someone had to tell him there's a public interest. Here you will establish the public interest by not even submitting the plan. It is the second amendment, but this points to intent, the intention is upside down, and it is obvious, and I think that this amendment must be accepted and you must deprive yourself of this erroneous intention to introduce a company, the notion of a company that will be founded by a public enterprise or, most of all, by a state with, of course, private capital, because it cannot otherwise be in that combination, and that you completely abandon the last line of security and security for all citizens of this country who can be terrified of your behaviour, which is that it is a commercial society, even if it is registered, that activity is registered in the public interest. What you wrote, believe me, isn't enough and it's not the pleonasm we suggested. Please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15270	Mr. Palalic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15271	Dear President, the Honorable Minister Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is one of the laws that extends the general reasons that this government has presented to us when proposing a series of regulations, which are bad for the consequences that will follow after their application. On the one hand, you had a series of rules where they were said to be – they are proposed for European integration. This session was in the spirit of regulation because of the white Schengen list, and now you have one new general reason, which is because of attracting foreign investment. This law is proposed for attracting foreign investment, but the draft law amending and supplementing the Expropriation Act does not provide answers on the agenda, nor does it provide a basis for a more serious approach to attracting foreign investment. This law comes from the Ministry of Finance, but there is one previous issue, which can and can be related to attracting foreign investment at the level of local self-government. So, on this occasion, I would like to ask a question to the distinguished Minister Dragutinović – what about the rules that define the concept of public property, which is the constitutional category, the property of municipalities, cities, provinces and the Republic? These are regulations that await our local self-government, to make more serious access to foreign investments based on these regulations, based on the financial capacities that local self-government would receive. We have no answer to those laws, and it is under the Constitution that these laws come here and that public property is finally defined. Certainly, by passing these laws, local self-government will be able to plan more seriously and define their development strategies and attract foreign investment more seriously. This law is certainly not in the interest, nor can it answer the question of investment at the level of local self-government, especially that this member, which was spoken of by the president of our parliamentary group, has a number of inaccuracies which can be used to bring, precisely, this essential thing, to make use of this law to declare a private enterprise a public interest and enter into something called expropriation, insinuation of property rights. In an explanation that rejects our amendment, we get the answer that it is not necessary at all, when it comes to companies with majority state capital, that means that there is private capital in these companies, to define that their activity is of public interest, because it is allegedly defined in Article 7. I ask the question – why is this norm being avoided? In order not to, in turn, come into a situation where the private interest becomes a public interest, that private companies, private persons who have a certain share in certain mixed companies with state and private interest, in fact, are pushing their interests and intruding into the rights of their citizens. I remind you, expropriation is a restriction of private property, which is sacred in all constitutions and is sacred in our constitution. That is why I propose that you accept this amendment and remind Minister Dragutinović - as soon as possible with laws that define public property, to allow local self-governments to develop seriously and exploit financial capacities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15272	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15273	Injury of Article 143. According to the Rules of Procedure, very short. President, however, with the duty of monitoring the presentation of the MPs, not by phone, because if you hadn't done so, you would have noticed that MP Jovan Palalic reported as the applicant of the amendment, that he had two minutes' right to speak; you did not warn him of the expiry of the time, because you couldn't even notice it because of the phone call. The question arises – do you have a right, and I don't think you have, yes, automatically, to attribute it to the DSS Parliamentary Group over time of two minutes? The man didn't point to that possibility. So you should have interrupted him. There is no, for this kind of redistribution of time, any authority specifically in the Rules of Procedure, except for another situation, which is regulated in the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, what will you do now? Will you take us a minute and a half as a parliamentary group to discuss these amendments to the bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15274	Mr. Palalic knows the Rules of Procedure, same as you and I. He knows it's two minutes' time that's scheduled for the amendment, and since it's understood and there's a silent agreement... Mr Palalic, did you address the Assembly, or did you speak within the time foreseen for your parliamentary group? (Jovan Palalic, from the post: As the applicant of the amendment. Then you broke the Rules of Procedure and I warn you not to do it anymore. Here you go again, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15275	Again on amendment to Article 3, this time as a member of the DSS Group. I'd like to draw attention to just one more thing here, about determining public interest. It's about the basic text of the law, Article 20, which is changing. It is explained that this is pleonasm in our amendment, when we said that we are asking for the company to be registered for the exercise of public interest and that it is said that Article 7, in fact, Article 20, as Article 7 of this proposal changes Article 20, says what public interest can be established in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that, among other things, it is said – for building facilities in the fields of education, health, social protection, culture, sports, traffic, energy, municipal infrastructure, etc. There are areas where it is imagined that public interest can be established. If you now associate this story with the introduction of private capital into the whole game and you know that objects that can be used for the interest of health care, even, can not be state, can be private, even the activity of health care can be performed as a private, also, education, and for culture and not to speak, then your explanation, which denied the need to define the activity of public interest when it comes to business societies, has jumped into your stomach. You have just confirmed that you are probably preparing a good private job for someone and that this is the only reason for making such changes and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15276	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Miss Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15277	Just for a little while, Madam President, I will support this amendment by my DSS colleague, because the amendment directly affects constitutional matter and the inviolability of private property, but first because of the fact that the establishment of this company from a public enterprise is getting into the situation that this company is no longer a public company, but it is no longer a state of control. I will state the potential case of the town of Kragujevac and the fact that we have a public company Sport Centre "Mlados" close to one of the protected ecological zones, which is Lake Bubanj, the sports hall "The lake" and the city government's intention, headed by Veroljub Stevanović, who has deceived the citizens of Kragujevac about that famous contract with the "Fiat", that in this place, of course, all along with the story that it is the public interest of the town of Kragujevac, there is no more hall, which is otherwise in a state of destruction. He's in power, less or more, ten years, the roof's about to collapse, the hall isn't operational at all, so we don't have the opportunity, like the city, to compete for some big sports events. It was barely two years ago that "Cup Radivoja" was held there. After all, there is also the town stadium and all the facilities of the company's business, which is one and especially the sports hall "The lake", by the biggest losers. I must remind you, I once talked about it for the second law, that in the 1970s, the Italian government fell because of the fact that they could not agree with one of the owners of land and real estate near the Roman airport "Fumicino", because of the fact that this private owner, a Roman citizen, did not want, although the law established at that market price, to grant the airport "Fumicino" his plot and the immobility he had. With this law, as Mrs Pop-Lazic's next amendment tells you, you will bring the citizens of Serbia to behave, because of the fact that you want to bring some tycoons, or someone for a large commission, which is Veroljub Stevanović's intention in Kragujevac, when it comes to the mentioned hall "The lake", to put money in his pocket, per system – take it or leave it. It is obvious that Serbian citizens, especially those who will be in the middle, as Mr Jojic has spoken of in the past days, when it comes to the "Agrarian Mafia", where they operate in the leading Serbian tycoons, will be placed in a position to treat them worse than the communists after 1945. After all, the fact that many of you, first of all, are in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a product or part of the eighth session mentioned by Mr Zoran Krasic, does not surprise us. Such is the government from the five-octobaric coup to the present and Serbian citizens, of course, cannot expect this law, the vote, above all, of this punitive third member, to protect the public interest, but to give the possibility to local powers to rob and seize the property of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15278	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15279	First of all, I'd like to make an apology to the Minister, because he is attending this debate, although it would be better if he were in bed and I think it's humane to interrupt at six o'clock; we won't lose anything if we cut Ms. Minister's sickness short. I came out to warn about a situation that could very easily happen in this Serbia, it has been happening for the past eight years, so why not now - expropriation for the needs of companies with majority state capital. What happens when these companies change the structure of ownership? You have cases that many state banks have disappeared, gone into bankruptcy, and no judge has been allowed to complete bankruptcy, since they are solvable, there are still others; you speak of them as living dead people walking, slowly taking down what exists in them. There is a possibility that such a company would go bankrupt and be sold, that it would be within a very short period of time compared to the time when expropriation was made for its needs, that it would all be because someone wanted that land. It is not otherwise possible to come to it, but must be represented as if it were an interest established because of a company of interest established by the State. Did we predict somewhere that what the state founded could never change the structure of ownership? We didn't. Unfortunately, we didn't. What if the Commercial Bank shows interest, you do the expropriation, and it comes out with stock shares on the stock market; the state says – we don't want to have this bank in majority state property anymore, and it's bought by someone who was in the interest of that land? What land is precious in Serbia? Unbuilt building land by the highways, if God will, and the entire right and left bank of the Danube River. All agricultural land in Vojvodina is being targeted today. The municipalities didn't come out by urbanising that distance, so now you have a situation for tycoons to buy four or five acres of land from peasants, and then find a corrupt municipal government that declares it a building land, do some kind of urbanization, legalize it for agricultural land to pass into building land. Of course, both Miskovic and all the people who help you, and those who help us, I think everyone should help if it is in accordance with the law, and if it is not in accordance with the law, it is subject to other principles. You, young sir, always use a handkerchief to wipe your nose. So, with a lot of caution, because a lot of state property goes into our private hands...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15280	Please don't disturb Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15281	You've got it right. ... In the hands of foreigners, who are not at all involved in the business of which the company, the company, was engaged. It simply serves them to close down the company, to use the goods in it, and to sell the price they gave to the Agency, which belonged to the Agency, or to auctions where they perform in solidarity and together, usually with threats to those who, perhaps, would bid honestly. So, Madam Minister, don't let the majority of the anthems stay on you that we warned you that you were doing something for the needs of rich people, and you were under public interest. It would be better if you accepted an amendment that in some way obliges the state to keep an eye on when expropriating. There's nothing harder than expropriation. You use force to take away forever's property. Make sure it's absolutely in line with the interests of the state, not individuals. Make sure the man knows, even though he's gone away from the property he's been feeding him, maybe children, or his house has been torn down, that it's done for something very important, that I accept that it's much more important for you to build a school than for me not to have corn in the field. Indeed, you must prove to me that this school will be a school, that there will be children in it, and that you do not build it just to leave and sell it, and I will no longer have corn fields. My field is more important to me than your school. But when you're in most of the assembly, you're going to vote that my field isn't that important, you're just going to pay me off, even though I have no intention of selling it. You're touching the most satanic feeling a man has, and that's the property he's acquired for centuries, or that he bought, after all, so he enlisted as his own. That's why I ask you to think twice about not writing formal justifications for refusing amendments, but to really find something to convince us that we are wrong when we support such a good amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15282	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Milan Avramovic, who, by the way, has been taken away from the word, but has the right to reply in this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15283	Mr. Nikolic, I accept the fact that the handkerchief serves to wipe your nose, but you must accept the fact that the handkerchief serves and wipes out tears. So don't complain about Miskovic from this pay phone. I threw – Miskovic, because it is the abduction of land in Vojvodina, because yesterday you made a statement in the daily press "Pres", in which you say the state should support Miskovic to develop his business, both in the country and beyond. When I mentioned Miskovic, I don't know what hurt you, which is why you're throwing me off the pay phone instead of continuing the topic with which you started? But let me answer that question. He never helped Miroslav Miskovic with the SRS, except you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15284	Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15285	You, Mrs. Djukic, severely injured the Rules of Procedure, because I would never say "young sir" to my predecessor. I don't know, at all, on what basis you gave him the right to a replica, when I didn't think of him; only if he recognized myself for giving him one useful lesson from a bonton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15286	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Avramovic recognized himself. He thinks you told him that. I'm really not able to interpret his interpretation. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Martinovic. Here you go. There'll be a delayed transmission during the evening. We're going back to work, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is extremely inhumane of the Serbian government, and it is inhumane of the DS MPs who come into my word instead of listening to what I have to say. So, I think it's inhumane of the Serbian government that simply forced Mrs Dragutinovic to sit here. Your predecessor, Mr. Novakovic, has extended his hours, it is obvious that we will be working after 18 hours. Mrs. Secretary is obviously not feeling well and I think the government could at least be so collegiate as to send in another authorised representative. For example, we from the SRS would be very happy to see here in its place, Mr Bozidar Djelic, to see if he is still convinced that Serbia will enter the EU at the pace he intended when he proposed to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement last year, and waved his hands – let's all join the EU, just as we have not joined, support the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. A few days ago, he, unfortunately, and all Serbian citizens, got a hot slap from Olli Rehn, the EU's accession commissioner, who said in one, how much, nice way -- you know, gentlemen from the Serbian government, and you too, Mr Tadic, I understand that you want to join the EU, but I strongly advise you not to apply this year because there is no theoretical chance of that request being adopted. So, all these stories, Mrs Dragutinovic, about these laws being passed by a speedy procedure to get into the EU faster, are simply not true. It's not just the opposition in this House, it's not just the SRS, that, unfortunately for you, your friends from the West say. Now the question is, when will you see for yourself that the EU does not want you? Why doesn't he want you? Maybe she doesn't want you because you're proposing laws like this. It is obvious that you have tried to mask someone's private interests by saying in the proposal of this law that the users of expropriation can only be, as we say, public-law figures, so, state, autonomous province, units of local self-government, public enterprises, etc. It would be all right if Serbia were a well-organised state. Unfortunately, under various DOS regimes, Serbia has not since 2000. We are all witnessing the fact that in Serbia, public and private interests are completely mixed, that no longer knows who the real president of the state is, and who the real ministers are, and who only the formal ministers and who, in fact, rules the Republic of Serbia. If that were the case, the best evidence is this recently held Business Forum in Kopalnik, where some people, for example, who privatised sugars for three euros in Srem, privatised some other businesses in Serbia at ten times the market price and the good part of those people's place is not at any business forums, but in prison. If these people are now to determine the economic policy guidelines of Serbia in 2009, which will obviously be extremely difficult, then I seriously doubt that economic policy will be successful. It will be successful for sure, but for those few individuals who rule Serbia. What good will citizens benefit from all this? It won't do any good. The SRS here, Mrs Dragutinovic, raised a public company director's salary issue in Serbia last fall. We have indicated that only one director of the public enterprise, director of the "Nikola Tesla", Bojan Kristo, from G17 plus, took more than 800,000 dinars in June 2008 alone on behalf of some of his profits, on behalf of salary, bonuses, etc. The government said we'll take every step to sanction this man. Apparently, someone told him he was about to take action against him, so he took the first plane to Germany, to Dusseldorf, stayed there for a few days, came back, probably went shopping, rested; what he was doing, came back alive and well. It's March 12th, 2009, I haven't heard of anything happening to that Boyan Krisht, or any criminal charges filed, or any charges brought against him, or any confiscation of his property, absolutely nothing. The man said – I no longer want to be the director of the public enterprise "Belgrade Airport" and – ate a donkey wolf, as is often the case in Serbia. We in the Serbian Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, have often asked the question, what are the actual earnings made by the directors of public enterprises in Serbia? We asked that question in the context of those statements made by your colleagues in the Serbian government and, of course, the president of the state, that in 2009, we should all be saving because difficult economic times came. That would be fine if you first started acting like one. Unfortunately, that's not how you behave. The government has submitted an answer to Parliament's question by MP Momir Markovic – how much are the receipts of the director of public enterprises in Serbia, i.e. what are the compensations made to members of the administrative and supervisory boards of public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia? It arrived on March 6, 2009, so six days ago. The answer was signed by the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister and who knows what not, Ivica Dacic. I think that Ivica Dacic was counting on Parliamentarian Momir Markovic, however, being a man in some mature years and that he will probably find it hard to read this font of the letter. Look, Mrs Dragutinovic, I, who am incomparably younger than Momir Markovic, need no glasses, I need a shovel and a microscope to read the figures in the response provided by the Serbian Government, which Ivica Dacic signed. I don't know what this font is, whether six, four, etc. Now the font is reduced from page to page. Look, the Public Enterprise 'Resavica', you find it funny, and I do, but look – page 13, compensations to members of the Management Board paid in 2008. Look at the font of the letter, i.e. the number. It's an extremely small font. A man needs to be avoided, as they say, to determine how many directors and board members in Serbia have taken. How much did they take? Here, Mrs Dragutinović, although the figures are small, physically observed, are extremely large in amount. Serbia's Public Enterprise, it is the brilliant idea of Mladjan Dinkic, has become, among other things, a minister and a ski resort. This is how many members of the Public Enterprise Management Board of the "Skialds of Serbia" take. In January, the president took 128,892 dinars. That's how you act, telling Serbian citizens that they need to tighten their belts. In February he took just as much, in March just as much, in May so much, in June, you know, it does not snow in June, but it is likely to increase the revenues of the Public Enterprise of Serbia, in June, Mrs Dragutinovic took 173,000 dinars, in July, when the snow is even more intense than in June – 174,000 dinars. In August, it starts to snow, slightly less – 166,000. In September, it looks like the rainfall is starting again – 171,000. In October, 170,000, in November – 160,000 dinars. This is proof of how you of the Serbian government behave. You act like you from DS, G17 plus and other parties that are in power in Serbia have two or three mouths, three stomachs, etc., and that Serbian citizen who may have received a salary of 6,000 dinars, and perhaps not, he doesn't seem to have one mouth, no stomach. How much do you need? How many more states do you have to rob, so someone who runs this government says, "people, that's enough." How much more money do you need to take? What's the time limit for you to stop stealing citizens? Tell us, so if it's another year, we'll be patient for another year, so I guess this pain that the citizens of Serbia are having will stop. Would you like me to read it to you, Mrs. Dragutinovic? These MPs of yours say they won't, but what's worth it, the citizens of Serbia want to hear it. I know this information is familiar to you, but the citizens don't know. You know, there are still uninformed citizens who think the government is doing everything it says. Our people are honest, naive, gullible, they think that people who are in power must first set an example of how to save in difficult times. The SRS is trying to convince these gullible citizens not to trust this government, because it doesn't matter what you say, it's how you act. Here's how you behave, the numbers speak. The bigger numbers in amounts, the smaller the fund. JAT — 113,000, 109.000, 113,000, 115,000, 116.000, 117,000. Then JAT Director - 315,000 in January. Serbia's Public Enterprise, the director, who was the director of the company, took 153,000 dinars in December 2008. "Serbian" – Public Enterprise Director finished the year with nearly 300,000 dinars of salary. So it's December of 2008. Then Bozidar Djelic, as I recall, agreed that the economic crisis in the world would have consequences in Serbia as well. In September, he claimed he would have no consequences, that it would even have a beneficial fact on the Serbian economy. In December, I guess, he also realized that he would have a negative fact in December of last year, here, your directors end up with over 300,000 dinars of salary, at a time when the question of whether an ordinary man in Serbia receives a salary and when pensioners receive four or six thousand dinars of pension. Now look, the Public Undertaking of the Railways of Serbia, December - 216.000. The public company Elektroprivreda Srbija, you see Mrs Dragutinovic, in 2008, in December, the director earned 400,000 dinars of salary. It's December 2008 so three months ago. That's when you proposed the 2009 budget. Then you told us to turn off the light when we left the apartment, not to put hot soup in the fridge, tighten the belt, etc. Why didn't you tighten the belt from the government, but the director should make 400,000 dinars, and someone in 2009 should be out of a job, etc.? Mrs Dragutinovic, the figures are devastating, the figures are terrible, the figures say that unfortunately, the government of Serbia is run by wasteful, completely irresponsible people, who are nothing but their own interest. Now I'm going back to this expropriation law, Mrs Dragutinovic. So, in conditions where in Serbia everything is mixed, public and private, tycoons and ministers, mobsters and president of the state, when you no longer know who is who, you propose amendments to the Expropriation Act. Why? Because according to data available to the SRS, the budget is charged, of the planned 100% revenue, with 27%. So it's obvious that the state of Serbia is threatening bankruptcy. The question is, what will happen to public sector salaries, with all those budget users at the republican, regional and local level? What about the pensions? That's a big question. At a time when, on the one hand, the budget is filled with only 27% of the planned revenue, you need some additional source of revenue and you have found in the amendments to the Expropriation Act. Let's get some more of these robbed citizens, but not to make the state better, but to make it better for the tycoons. What's this about? We, Mrs Dragutinovic, gave you not only yourself, but also the Serbian Government, an example of the Municipality of Stara Pazov. At a time when the president of the Municipality of Stara Pazova was Mr. Srdjan Komazec of the SRS, individual tycoons in the municipality of Stara Pazova, white-world mobsters and these domestic tycoons were buying land from peasants, agricultural land. After signing the sales contracts, the peasants were paid 20% of the purchase price, and they told the rest of the 80% – you will get money when we turn agricultural land into building land. Then they wanted, when in power in the municipality of Stara Paz, Serbian radicals, to turn the agricultural land into building land through the president of the municipality and the Assembly of the municipality, to raise the price several times and, of course, make money on the torture of these peasants. What's a peasant for? The state doesn't help him, he's been robbed, the milk spills into the garbage, and, on the other hand, the state imports milk powder, you don't help the smokers, the cattle fund in Serbia is being suppressed, and in the paper we read that you import pork heads from Brazil 20 and 30 years old, frozen in some freezers, etc. What's a peasant gonna do now, instead of selling his farm land? While the SRS was in power, it couldn't have gone through. We didn't want to turn agricultural land into construction land. When there was a shift in power in 2008, one of the first decisions you made in Old Paz, which means DS, along with your coalition partners, is that you turned huge plots of land, from agricultural land, into construction. These tycoons bought cheap agricultural land, now became the owners of construction land, but peasants did not get the promised share of 80% of that remaining amount. Building land came into the hands of mobsters and tycoons. What do we do now? Nothing, ate the donkey wolf again, like with Boyna Krishte. That's how things work, from one municipality to another. It is no accident at all, Mrs Dragutinovic, to be held in Serbia these days by kidnapping municipalities where Serbian radicals are in power. That's because we respect the Constitution and the law and because no radicals in any of the municipalities were embarrassed. You can make some noises, you can frown, etc., no radicals in any of the municipalities have been embarrassed, although since 2000 it has not been easy for them at all, because in every municipality where the SRS was in power we were left to ourselves. We didn't have our ministers in the government, nor did we have our own executive council, when it comes to the municipalities of Vojvodina. We didn't have a president of our own. We worked alone, as we knew and knew. We didn't have any help from abroad, no major loans, no donations, etc., and we didn't embarrass ourselves. You can't find any municipalities in Serbia in which the SRS was in power if there were thieving, that there was crime, that there was corruption. That's why it's time to bring down the radical municipalities now. That is why all government in the Republic of Serbia should be "yellow", from a republican level, across the province, to the level of municipalities, cities and local communities. That would be fine, Mr. Milivojevic, if it were to happen in the elections, but it doesn't happen in the elections, it happens by, say, buying and kidnapping a SRS board member in Leskovec, in Zemun, by disbanding the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, on a proposal from the City Council, which still doesn't have a Rules of Procedure, which is held by a telephone session, past the Law on Local Self-Government and by the Law on the Capital City, the Assembly of the City of Zemun. This happens by one act in Kosovo and Metohija, the government wants to disband all municipalities where it is in the power of the SRS. This is how it happens because you follow the logic of our people – we have our people in the government, we can do whatever we want at the bar, citizens can vote whatever they want, there's our government, there's our ministers, they're going to protect us, we're going to disband all municipalities that don't suit us, and then there's going to be a political dictatorship definitely in Serbia. That's the real truth why now you're breaking into the municipality of Zemun, why you're breaking these days into Leskovac, why you're breaking into the Odjaks municipality, why you're breaking into all the municipalities of KIM, and there are many of them, thank God, in which it's in the power of the SRS. That's the real truth, that there would be a dictatorship in Serbia at all levels and that the citizens of Serbia would only have one party to rule them, which is the Democratic Party with its various satellites. Mrs Dragutinović, I know your health isn't so good, you have my personal wishes to recover as soon as possible. I think despite the fact that you're sitting in the government with people like that, if I were sitting next to them, I'd be sitting with my pockets sewn up and I'd see if I didn't have expensive watches on my hands, you'd be a congratulatory lady, professional, cultural, and I really don't want to take your time anymore. The other day, journalists at RTS asked Mr Dragan Todorovic, why does the SRS not have a programme to get Serbia out of this crisis? There's this program, and I'm going to tell you that this program is very simple. There are two parts, one is economic and the other is political. The economic part of the programme, Mrs Dragutinovic, reads: criminals in prison, and the political part of the programme reads: the freedom of Vojislav Seselj and the freedom of Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15288	The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudić, then Mr. Krasic. I'd like to inform you that the delayed transmission will be completed 23 hours ago tonight, and we'll be working until 19 hours, so that we can fit in to have a delayed transmission available 23 hours ago, so that everyone interested can see. (Milos Aligrudić, from the place: I give up my words. Mr. Krassic, are you giving up too? (No) The word is Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15289	I never give up, you know that, I guess. Now let me explain this amendment, which was submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic and which has some touch points with the previous amendment of the MPs from the DSS. This is Article 3. The government has proposed changes in the position of Article 8 of the basic text, where, in fact, it defines who is the user of the expropriation. There is nothing at all controversial about the republic, the autonomous province, the city, the city of Belgrade, the unit of local self-government, is nothing of concern when it comes to a public enterprise of republican importance or of any other importance, related to the form of territorial autonomy or local self-government, but it is problematic what follows, and these are the companies founded by these public enterprises, and the DSS MPs have asked in some way to change it by their amendment, and Mrs Pop-Lazic has asked that these companies also act on public interest. It used to be a work of general interest. Why is this proposed? It was proposed for one simple reason. Of course, as a user of expropriation, one should appear who is in some way a rightholder of state property, someone who has the right to use, manage, or who has the right to dispose. It has the state property of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and users and those who manage can also be other entities. When a user of expropriation is defined, then there must be this connection between state property and someone who is the title of one of those rights of immobility. What is problematic about public enterprises or companies that have founded public enterprises? The problem is that when you look at their business, you can find that the bulk of the total income is not based on public authority, public business, general interest, but on the presence of capital markets. The question arises, what is taken as a criterion in defining users of expropriation, is the status of a legal person, because these are all legal persons, or their property structure? I must draw your attention that as far as matters of general interest, and now they are of public interest, they can carry out both state-owned enterprises and companies in private property. Public urban traffic is a business of public interest, it is also carried out by companies whose founder is the city, and can also be carried out by private enterprises, whose city has been entrusted with the exercise of activity. What's the basic criterion? We insist that the basic criterion be the relationship of that legal person or entity to the state property, and the government insists on something that is status, whether the company is founded by a public enterprise of republican importance, and there is the end, and there is the beginning of something called abuse, something that can be abuse, and there are no mechanisms to prevent it. Mrs Pop-Lazic has, as a factor of limitations, introduced precisely that public-interest affairs are being carried out, and this is already understood that the object of expropriation is the immobility on which something should happen, and it is the exercise of public interest. Whether it's a school, whether it's a kindergarten, whether it's a health station, whether it's a utility, a plumbing, a sewer, etc., it's all public-interest jobs now, in new terminology, and once it was of general interest. Earlier in the termology, something much more appropriate, which is a necessary condition for the life and work of citizens in a particular area, has now been lost, because, in market economy conditions, we have that neoliberal concept based on the system – you can pull as much as possible, as cheaply as possible, and if possible, for free, for three euro whole sugarcane, and this is a big job, etc. We're trying to narrow down the demands of those who are currently ruling, and right now I have to tell you that this doesn't exist in Western Europe. Chuck, there's an institute in France, it's not for sale. So you can walk through the center of Paris, there are big buildings, skyscrapers, etc., and you can run into a guard, and then ask a question – couldn't the urbanists have solved it by declaring something public interest? They couldn't solve it because the owner said it wasn't for sale. Private property is sacred, and the end of the story. Of course, I'm not exactly a representative of that attitude either, but I am a representative of finding mechanisms to control the executive authority. I'm telling you this as a man who worked on expropriation business 20 years ago, on behalf of expropriation users, made some buildings on some ledge, in some space. Of course, these buildings are much nicer and these apartments in Bulevara than they were, but it's always been about fair compensation and maximum procedure, and this expropriation process has, in my case, lasted several years, which is because of the administration, or the Finance Secretariat, which is because of other things, but these mechanisms have to be maximum respect, because they're entering something that's an unimpeached individual's right. When you define an expropriation user this way, according to the system that a public company can make its own companies, you've only said here for decorations: "based on state capital. "Why do I say "for decoration"? Because at one of the sessions of one of these committees, as the working body of the National Assembly, we have just asked the trustee, the government's representative, to state what is the criterion – the status of that legal person, the company, or the property structure? They said status. End of story, we're done talking. So it's just enough to be a company in some, apparently, state property and then you can do anything. Of course, this is not just the issue of this law, but the problem of state property and legal personality status is even more pronounced in the company law. There are several provisions that have not been finalised from the point of view of state property. So, you're not losing anything in the initiative, if they're honest intentions, by adopting the amendment to Gordana Pop-Lazic. This amendment essentially accepts the concept, only requires one restriction – that it is of general interest to do public affairs. On a plastic case, I showed you that you have companies that have formed public enterprises, like their addictive or their daughters, and they do not make most of the total income based on doing business of public interest, but on trading capital or some other business that they do, and the existing regulations allow you to place 300 activities as the business's activity, so you can see what basis you will gain by, mahogany, your income. Here, in economic thinking since 2000, it has appeared as a criterion: giro-calculation, current account, account status, insolvency. That's what came up. Just to grab the money, it doesn't matter what kind of action. So the result of the business should be positive, and since it has to be positive, everything is allowed to be done, so it is possible to take credit from the Development Fund, for the development of tourism, with an interest rate of 1%. If the younger one closes his eyes, and those funds go to the computers, and there's 12% interest rate, then you see how much he's earned, and everything is clean and inhaled into one framework that represents legality. Who allows this frame to be created? This group of people. Why? This is the kind of bill that I'm not talking about yet. Practice is even worse than what we can imagine here, what could happen on the basis of such solutions and laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15290	Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's hard to single out an amendment that reads, so talk about it, not consider the whole law, so I'd like to talk about it the way the predecessor talked about it. So, please don't mind me just pointing to one failure to defend this amendment. It is said here that it is possible, for example, in Paris, that in the city center there is a guard, absolutely unedited, healed in weeds, unsustained, and that no municipality, city or some arondisman can do anything against the owner who won't keep it. That's not true. Since I have been engaged in urbanism in large cities in Europe, there is no city in Western Europe that would allow it. Simply, the owner is left with years, two, three, depending on how the state, to adapt according to the conditions given to him, or to buy him houses of market value; he does not deserve to live in the center of the city. It's simply impossible to imagine such a city where houses are going to fall apart, one by one or by two, without the state doing anything, so that the municipality doesn't do anything. So whoever has the money, can live in the center of Paris, can have a house in the center of Paris, someone who doesn't have it, move to the periphery, and his house is maintained by the one who has the money. Cruel, but that's why they don't want the building to fall on people's heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15292	Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15293	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, he is exhausted in today's statement by the Rules of Procedure, so I will use only the minute we have left to say that you were obliged to correct someone who appears to be talking about Mrs. Pop-Lazic's amendment, as the amendment reads, since the previous, conditionally said, the speaker said that the amendment reads, "is deleted". It is simply not true, because counterpart Zoran Krasic, as a graduate lawyer and a man who worked on expropriation affairs for 20 years, had just presented cases related to the city of Belgrade and the boulevard he mentioned, and that Mrs Pop-Lazic, as someone who was also a leading lawyer in the area of the municipality of Zemun, before she was elected as the president of the municipality, asked to leave the possibility of a compensation agreement with the owner, as he suggested in this amendment. We think it's only right, with you, refuting the amendment, Mrs Dragutinovic, saying it was regulated by a member of the 53rd basic law. Mr Krasic, who Decidantly said that the SRS is not against any of the citizens, when it comes to the truly assessed public and general interest, blackmails neither the Republic, nor the local self-government, but in the basic text of the law you forgot it and deliberately kept it in mind for the refusal of the amendments by Mrs Pop-Lazic. It does not exist at all, I have checked this, the possibility of an agreement, but only the way in which the compensation is determined, i.e. at market value, which is again assessed by the Republic Government. We, as a party, are committed to making as much a better deal as possible, in order to protect private property, which is uncut and which is the constitutional category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15294	You are right that this amendment does not read "expect," but over 100 amendments of the SRS are such content. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Sreto Peric, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic not only wants well-organised Serbia and the well-being of all Serbian citizens, she, knowing who is ruling Serbia, submits a very precise amendment, proposing that there be an agreement in the temporary takeover of immobility. We know there's total expropriation, so when it's excluded, when there's a public interest, and there's a temporary expropriation; it can still be divided into two groups, and that's officiality and lease. The service is on various transfers and it is also permanent, but there is only the right of service, and the lease is when the land is leased for a certain time. Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic knows who is ruling Serbia and what the response will be to its amendment. The government says - the amendment is not accepted because the method of determining the amount of compensation in the event of the establishment of a service is particularly regulated by the provisions of Article 53. The law. Article 53. The 1995 Expropriation Act, which entered into force on 5 January 1996, and in 2001 some members, by decision of the Constitutional Court, were deleted, since the amount of compensation was not established in a constitutional manner or provided for in that law, says – in the case of establishment of a service, the compensation shall be determined in the amount for which the market value of land or buildings has been reduced as a result of the establishment of the office. In the case of service, a reduction in immovableity, or a reduction in the market value of immovableity, does not, as a rule, have to exist. It can return to its original state, and perhaps, when using, as you said, and others say that it lasts for three years, it doesn't have to reduce the value. The owner of the estate is unable to use his property for, say, three years. This is why we intervene, or Mrs Pop-Lazic intervened, that there is the possibility of an agreement on the inability to use that property. The most common owners of immovable property, i.e. land, are not the rule, agricultural producers, who use this land for agricultural production. Instead of this government thinking, because the most common cases in Vojvodina, where model agricultural producers have raised very unfavourable loans and have now come into the situation because of the inability to place their milk, or meat, or any other agricultural product, (President: You have no more time as a representative of the Parliamentary Group, but you can speak... I'm done. Because of the inability to place and pay off their debt in good time, they will come into slavery to banks, instead of the government saying – a year and find a chance...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15296	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think you've injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, probably not on purpose, but simply because of the fact that the citizens of Serbia are well informed, it is not true that the SRS has submitted more than 100 amendments to the vote -- it is deleted. So now we're talking about a bill on amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act. We have submitted as a parliamentary group of 9 amendments and only one amendment, Mr Mirko Munjic, to Article 7 paragraph 3 reads in Article 7, paragraph 3 is deleted. So no hundreds of amendments, nine amendments, and only one where Article 7 paragraph 3 is deleted. I would hate for the citizens of Serbia to see what you have just said as some of our whims, that is, the MPs of the SRS have nothing to do and they are submitting amendments that are read-out. So it's simply impossible to submit to a bill that doesn't have 100 members, 100 amendments. That's not possible. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I understand you haven't been here all day, you could have asked your colleagues. We have submitted 9 amendments and, of these 9 amendments, only one reads - is deleted, and this amendment was submitted by Mr Mirko Munjic. Otherwise, all amendments are meaningful, established, and where good luck is that the government has accepted them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15298	Mr. Martinovic, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Today, we discussed amendments to the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters where you filed a hundred amendments with content are deleted. I said that today we had a chance to hear a hundred of your amendments whose content is deleted, and I didn't, you don't have a word anymore. Thank you. This is your answer, I said no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied, we can only do so in the voting day to be true about whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I couldn't break the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. In the voting day, we'll be told if I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go. The word is Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment, along with my colleague Aligrudic, to Article 4. Proposal for an expropriation law. We think it would be much more logical that instead of words – city building land, the rest of the building land stands. If it remained the way the biller predicted, then it would mean that an earlier landowner was paid a public land fee. It's not logical and it's not possible. With this amendment, we ask that the former owner be paid compensation for the rights he has stopped having as owner on the rest of the building land, which has gone public. Of course, we understand the need to pass a new law on expropriation, given that it was brought in 1995, that it has not been changed in the Assembly since then, but we expected that these amendments and amendments to the Law will solve all the problems that have arisen in practice. That's not what happened. Instead, we have received a more vague law, which will cause a number of other problems in application itself. It is unclear because it is completely contrary to the Construction and Planning Act. Namely, the Construction and Planning Act foresees a modality based on which land can be converted into state property. One of these opportunities and modes is expropriation, but what it predicts as a mandatory condition is the existence of a plan act. On the other hand, the amendments and additions of the Expropriation Act do not mean, as a commitment, the existence of a plan act, but also lead to the possibility that land can be converted into state if the government, on the basis of the contract, says there is a public interest. It is precisely this provision that we are protesting against such a law, because we believe that this provision that I have now spoken of provides opportunities for many abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15300	I thank Mrs. Radovic. Mr. Aligrudić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15301	Here's how you write the laws and what you explain. In an explanation for which you did not accept this amendment, you say - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed amendment has carried out a termological alignment with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Planning and Construction, which regulates property-legal relations on building land, with the application of those provisions not being influenced by whether it is public or other building land, but rather by building land in state or public property. You know what, there's been a harmonisation of termology from the Constitution and from the Law on Planning and Construction. The problem is only that those categories of persons to which this member is concerned, which are excommunicated by land, or object, can exclusively be those persons who are owners, or users of buildings on other building land. Why are you afraid to use normal terminology with the Planning and Construction Act? What difference does it make? The term you used is general term, title, roof term from the Planning and Construction Act. You think in this particular situation it doesn't matter at all. This just shows how little attention you pay to the consistency of terminology and terms that cover this area in different regulations. What, say we have one set of regulations that contains both law and law and that we hand it over to law school students to read and learn? So, to face these sentences in one regulation or another and not, people, at all? Do you know that when you expunge some land, by the very act of expropriation, it went into one category? How do you propose to blow up the park? How do you propose to expunge the Republic Square? You can't. You can't do that. What kind of land is this? It's public land. What's left of it? That's why the law called him the rest of the land. Do you understand that? "The rest" is because it's not public, so the rest can be exploited, so when you determine a fee, you determine not for city building land, you're right, you changed that, but for the rest. Be condescending in what you write.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15302	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15303	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 6, which reads to be deleted. To understand, I will first read a member of the law: "Early owners and members of his family household, whose housing has been exploited for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, have the right to be awarded one building plot within the total fee, provided that this expropriation causes the settlement or part of the settlement to be displaced and that at the time of the adoption of the expropriation solution they are resident in the facility". What's the problem? Assuming that I have a house near the Star or Partizan Stadium, Topchider Hill, and that someone discovers a mine of salt or gold and says, "It's an exploitation of that plot, I get a parcel." But where? In Pinosava, Resnik? What am I supposed to do with that? Why only if it's mineral raw materials? Can anyone explain that? What is the exclusiveity of mineral raw material? What happens to that house and part of the settlement if an airport or railway is to be built? Why isn't that real? How do you explain that? Is there any explanation for that? I don't ask as an MP anymore, I ask as a citizen. How will it be clear to a citizen, if we don't know in the O.R.? How do you solve this question? What is the exclusiveity of mineral raw material? What's going on in other situations? How does that regulate the law? This member of the law sucks, and that's why I suggested that it be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15304	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Aligrudić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15305	A few minutes, my colleague Milan Dimitrijevic asked a simple question – why did you propose this? Do you have one single reason why you suggested this? To blow up someone's facility, it's okay, because there's a public interest, it's been determined. If the expropriation is due to the exploitation of mineral ore, etc., so by exploiting mineral wealth, ore and similar things, the settlement is displaced, or part of the settlement, then, when these two cumulative conditions are acquired, the possibility is created that the object in which he lived, lived, sought, in the total fee he would receive from that expropriation, and the building plot, not 'or', but 'i'. Read what you wrote. You don't even know what you wrote. It tells you, it's cumulative, a man has the right to receive a building plot within the total fee. That means he can get a building plot and money. Then you don't know what you wrote. That's worse. So now you've discovered it's even worse. That's five times worse than you just said. Now you're telling me that instead of money, he could be looking for a building plot. What's going to happen to the man you took down the lot house, and he didn't want it, but the state wanted to open a mine? The man had a house in that place, it didn't occur to him to sell it. He will now, by your authority, seek a building plot for the house, without the dinars of the second fee. What's he gonna do with it? To lie in the field? What do you want him to do on that building plot? It's even worse what you just said. You cannot read the text you wrote. I thought your intention was that within the total fee, a man could get cumulatively, but within that fee, and a building plot. It has a reason to, I guess, lift something with the rest of the money. Who did you write that for? You must have had something concrete in mind. Someone sent you off with some concrete proposal, in a specific area, on a specific case, and you're writing it in the law. Which is why, as the owner of the facility, of any other facility, where the land is being brought in on some other basis, has nothing to do with the mine, I wouldn't have the right to be given a building plot? That's completely insane what you wrote. The most beautiful thing I ask you to accept the amendment is to delete it from the law. Don't let us make nakaradas and wonders out of regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15306	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Popovic, come in. You'll talk and we'll close today's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expropriation Act, which reads in Article 6, point 6 at the end of the line is replaced by a comma and words are added: " whose value does not exceed one-fifth of the determined fee". Since private property is protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and only in exceptional conditions, by the law exactly provided, it can be limited, your non-acceptation of this amendment cancels and the Constitution guarantees the right to property. The amendment proposed that in the event of an expropriation of a construction facility for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, during the assignment of a building plot, its value should not exceed one-fifth of the total value of the exploited property. The Serbian Radical Party indicated the harmfulness of the unilateral application of the SAA with the EU. This is an example of how harmful it is. According to some estimates, the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been damaged by 300 million dinars and I believe this law wishes to make up for this amount from Serbian citizens, and through the law on expropriation. The best example of this is the dissatisfaction of the residents of the town of Vreci in order to exploit coal in the Colubara combination. Probably soon, due to their dissatisfaction, you will have a blockade of the Ibar highway and the Belgrade-Bar railways.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-12-0.u15308	Thank you. If anyone else wants to talk about this amendment, they'll do it tomorrow at 10 p.m. when we continue our work.
