ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12344	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of MPs, 119 MPs are present. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Mr. Riza Halimi is prevented from attending the session. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the finance ministry and Natasa Kovacevic, deputy finance minister. Mr. Dulic is here as a representative of the government. I welcome them. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Sreto Peric was submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the government has continued to change its representatives during today's day, so there's an impression that the ministers are changing like they're on the treadmill. Mr. Dulic, you have nothing to do with this, you have the authority to be here today on behalf of the government and that's it. It would not be bad if Minister Bogoljub Šijakovic were present today, Mr Ilic is there every day and you, as ministers in certain portfolios, may not have had the opportunity to come to the knowledge of the disastrous consequences of these seven laws will be left by the economy and by the citizens of Serbia, and it is good that more ministers from the government are present in the National Assembly, and the finance minister, who is a resolute minister in this matter, has already expressed his position. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17, which concerns Article 34 of the Basic Property Tax Act. Article 34 of this law has five views and the first position says: The property tax officer is required to submit a tax application, with accurate data, by 31 March of the year for which the tax on property is to be determined. Item 2: The obligation set out in Article 1 shall not apply to taxpayers who pay income tax on citizens from agriculture and forestry towards cadastrian income. So these two attitudes don't change. Item 3: On assets acquired, start or cease to be used during the year, or on another basis arises or ceases the tax liability, the obligor shall submit a tax application within 10 days of the day of such change. So, here's the deadline from the first bet, this is a speciality. Article 4 of the basic law, which is amended, I will explain what the changes are: ''the property taxpayer', it was earlier that he submitted, so it is proposed by the Government to delete 'who submitted' and to add the words 'who did not run the business book and submitted it', and the text follows as in the basic law, 'the tax application is not obliged to submit a new application for the same property, except in case of a change in the data contained in the application which is of an impact on the level of the tax liability. ''I proposed to the amendment that this item 4 be deleted, and for the reason that the substance is already contained in the first position - the obligor, if not keeping a business book, is obliged to submit a tax application by 31 March of the current year for the year to which it relates. This attitude 1 solves the problems you propose to change. The reason behind the law states that the government had a dilemma about whether this problem was at all dealing with changes and additions to this law or maybe regulations, which was why the DS government was known from 2001 to 2003, when there were regulations for the largest number of obligations and relationships in society and in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and yet they were identified as amendments and additions to this law, but the essence was not any benefit to the citizens of Serbia, but only damage and adverse consequences. I still have to point out today that this government is a government to fail. The honor of a certain number of ministers or perhaps civil servants working in ministries, and they perform their role in a very good way, or duty, but it seems to me that this government treats Serbian citizens as if they've taken them to another country, with which we compete in destroying economic production and any other activity, and so behaves. Whether it is ignorance, impotence or obligation taken when forming this government to take as much of a blow as possible to Serbia. Yesterday, we spoke about when there was a law on amendments to the Customs Tariffs Act and about 260m euros on the agenda, for which the budget of the Republic of Serbia will charge less revenue in 2009, this is currently a harmful consequence, and it will leave far greater consequences in Serbia. Because if this year, and this is already done in continuity since 2001, you give a serious and difficult blow to the economy, especially agriculture, then it will take a significantly longer period of time to recover it. In this period, we must invest more subsidies in agriculture. It is foreseen by the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia for 18,240,000,000, representing very small and minor funds compared to the total budget. I agree with agricultural experts and some economists who say investing in agriculture may not be accumulating. Yeah, I'm totally in agreement, but it's inevitable, it's an emergency. How to save the village, and where I come from, there's only one village where only one student goes, and there's over 450 residents. Agricultural production mainly deals with nursing households, I speak for mountainous and mountainous areas, and we have such situations in very agricultural areas of our Serbia, when these agricultural activities are dealt with by nursing households and people who are not sufficiently educated for that part of the job. What should the Ministry of Agriculture do? It should encourage competitive activity, primarily to compete with EU member states, and not to subdue our activities and our natural resources, and then organise a production competition in agricultural activities at all levels and in all areas, and thus show young people that this country takes care of their future and their perspective. But there's one big problem. This country, or its government, has not adopted a strategy on agricultural production for eight years, and it is incomprehensible. With this law, the law amending and supplementing the property tax law, you have tried to transfer a certain part of the obligation to local self-government, and local self-government is crying out for funds, that is quite understandable. I have to give you an example from Love, where I come from. Of the eight privatized companies, there is also a public enterprise, a single note. The privatisation income was 2m and 19,000 euros, with an investment of 480,000 euros in new investments. When you know that 5% of that belongs to local self-government, then you can imagine how insignificant it is, and this place is very important because it's located at the border of our country. Another problem is that the government has an irregular relationship with local self-government, all depending on who exercises local authority. The problems came out of that section, so we heard here yesterday from the DSS MP that there are similar problems in the city of Nis, whose mayor is a member of the DS, but this government or the Ministry of Finance did not meet their obligation, and what situation would the mayors or presidents of municipalities in other towns or municipalities of Serbia where their political parties do not participate in government at the republican level. Relations with Serbian citizens must change a lot and there is responsibility, fellow MPs, and yours. What's your responsibility? Your responsibility is in a very passive relationship with the legal proposals that come from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You are deeply aware, as we are from the SRS, that many of the laws that have been passed are directed against the interest of the Republic of Serbia. The acceptance of the Eulexa mission is the most obvious example, although it can be declared that the government led by Boris Tadic - if it comes to a dilemma or if there are problems with EU accession, or the separation of Kosovo and Metohija from the Republic of Serbia, then our integration will completely stop with the EU. In order to integrate with the EU, which is your wish, we have a lot to do with us. We must show that we are working in the interests of citizens, and citizens when they go to the elections, they do not give their trust to political parties because they are represented by someone who is very beautiful, and not at all the citizens of Serbia were warmed up when President Boris Tadic came out and said -- no more problems, diplomatic activities we will now regularly get gas. That doesn't warm up. In light of the law supplementing the Customs Tariffs Act, it is said that our economic operators are fully prepared for such tariffs, i.e. for unilateral application of the trade agreement, that they are fully prepared. How can they be prepared when you see that Dusan Bajatovic, as director of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas", says that this gas that is now arriving, or these quantities that are now arriving, is enough to warm up just households, and that no economic operator who uses gas as energy can count on that part. What is the claim that our economic operators are ready for such application, i.e. unilateral application of the trade relations agreement with EU countries? It is simply not true and everyone knows it well, you know it, but I guess party discipline obliges you to vote for those laws that only harm the citizens of Serbia. It seems to me, Mr. Ilic, that you said this morning that this budget is restrictive. I agree with you in one part, it is restrictive when it comes to those entities whose fate and economic activity depends heavily on the funds they will receive from the budget, specifically agricultural production, yes, there is a restrictive one. When it comes to public spending on personal income, for rewards for participation in supervisory and management committees, this is not the case. Can we count on serious progress at a time when our agricultural production is irrigated by only 1%? Can we in such conditions of production compete with agricultural production from EU member states? What kind of relationship would I ask my colleague Dragan to follow this, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Export Agency has towards net exporters? Is it different to treat net exporters from exporters who both import and their extra-profit both on course differences and on extremely high prices of the products they import, compared to net exporters whose production does not have any import components, but is all domestic? The relationship between this government and you fellow MPs, according to a country whose representatives you are, citizens have shown you trust, must be quite different and quite serious. Do something in this difficult situation, in the economic situation of the Republic of Serbia, in which its citizens are present, which is that you do not vote in favour of such laws as the Government proposes, because the Government has an underestimating relationship with the National Assembly and this is a minor problem personally viewed by the MPs, but we are representatives of the citizens here, and the government's attitude towards the National Assembly also shows the constant change of ministers, authorized by these points of the agenda. Mr. Perry, speak a minute longer. I'm done. It is known that, on these issues, which opposition political parties' MPs are asking, most likely, the right answers could be given by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, in no case by the minister of religion, in any case by the Minister of Planning. He can only help us and show us how and how to protect the environment, but from the government's negative political influence for destruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12346	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is for Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President and Chairman of this Parliament, the Ministers of the Government, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17, by proposing that a new Article 4 be added after Article 3, which reads: "Article 34, point 6 of the application under this Article is 'to be submitted' - is replaced by the words 'individual application for the determination of the property tax' shall be submitted in particular for each property right. Why do we feel that this amendment should be accepted and that the norm law is clear and that it is easier to apply. On the other hand, it should cover all assets subject to tax in an adequate and appropriate manner. In this way, individual property of some owners may not be subject to this category of provisions of Article 17. The property tax law. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to budget and budget revenues, it is very important that Serbia must have parliamentary control of the budget. The Law on the State Auditing Institution has been passed. The national auditor does not function, nor does the institution function. One day, someone's gonna write a book called "Operation for the State Auditor." What does that mean? It means that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is running away from the state auditor, organising the investment of the state auditor, and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has not put the Rules of Procedure on the work of the state auditor and the auditory house on the agenda for a year. I've visited an office with four clerks, and according to the State Auditor's Rules of Procedure, 99 employees should work. Who controls the budget users now - no one controls. He doesn't control the one who's under the law and the Constitution, because the State Auditor is a constitutional category, or Mr. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, if I'm wrong, and you're right, to provide us with a report on the work of the budget auditor. You will now equalize the budget inspection with the State Auditor. Are we going to end the budget inspection without leaving four officials to control the budget and budget users - no? Will you presently show at the Serbian Parliament at least one report and one final account from 2001 to today - the final budget account? Please, don't defend yourself by saying no more, you're supposed to be communicating with the MPs. Please come out today. I ask you a personal answer, has any final accounts been drawn up in Serbia from 2001 to today - if so, give it to the public and give it to the Members of Parliament? Why? The government is running away from the state auditor being the alpha and omega, the most important institution to control budget funds by the users. What's the problem? The questions are upside down and the financial services are being turned upside down? We have 7,000, as far as I know, tax officials who charge taxes from taxpayers in Serbia, and we have only 12 budgetary inspectors. Mr Secretary, can 12 budgetary inspectors submit a report to the Assembly on how many interventions and how many cases have they carried out budgetary control and with which budget beneficiary, and whether all budget users are controlled or not? So they're not. Then I'm right. Where will 12 officials get to control 8,000 tax users' budgets? Just take the case, I'm talking to you, given that you are present and that you are listening to our messages and objections in this House - will you give me an answer and notice today whether the factory, which has been disarmed, in Pančev "Carbamid 2" has been sold, kidnapped, robbed from Pancheva and damaged by those who bought it as private owners? For one more thing, you should give us a notice, and I hope you will, because you can immediately turn the service of the tax authorities - did the tax on the sale contract "Carbamid 2" in Panchev, whose book value was 45m euros, and was sold for 32.5m euros; was the tax paid for the sales of immovable property or the sales tax of mobile goods? So, please, if you can give us a notice because 1,500 workers are asking for a notice - is the state tax paid or not? So it's not. So, if it isn't, now the question is whether or not it can -- if it can't, it can't. Now the question is, what was customs doing? Who agreed to export a factory worth 45m euros? Who gave consent - Agency, Director of the Privatisation Agency? Why didn't he inform the government? What did the government not prevent that crime that took place, the biggest crime in Serbia in 2006, when the Panchean Azotara was privatized? The local self-government couldn't do anything about it -- it wasn't in her jurisdiction. It was a state that had to control where the funds went. Secondly, can anyone unmount one new factory that was supposed to be in production and remain the one who took the obligation for the state to benefit, and on the other hand to continue production, not to stop the production of artificial fertilizer. There are problems, all of the financial nature. Secondly, the rights of the workers are at stake. It's good, but it seems to me that some media and this assembly have put pressure on the Privatisation Agency, so there's been an end to that contract. This has proved to be the right way for workers to evaluate. Now the second question is, who's going to pay for the damage caused, the material damage to the state, and who's going to compensate for the material damage to workers who have suffered from this kind of illegal sale and this kind of scandal that's happened? This is a unique case in Serbia that foreign mobsters and mobsters came to close the deal, and the mobsters cut off the production of artificial fertilizer, Serbian farmers were left without artificial fertilizer. The factory doesn't work for a year. The Mafia have disarmed the state-of-the-art factory. Here, Mr. Dulic is likely to have knowledge that Karbamid 2 has been directed and coordinated in the process of production with ammonia, which would reduce 50% of the pollution in Panchev, compared to the current situation and earlier. Local self-government has repeatedly pointed, not worth it. The SRS's deputies also asked the issue in the city's parliament during the last session. But again, in this case, the media reacted positively. The Privatisation Agency has figured out its mistake and it's a good thing it's a broken contract. But we are now asking that workers be paid back and we consider, although there are also some comments in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to ask the economics of continuing production of the nitrogen fertiliser factory in Panchev. My people, does anyone have logic, does the government have logic? The government must be thinking about individual agricultural producers. What's going on? For a year, the co-owner, the buyer in the privatisation process, imported fertilizer through his company and sold it more expensive than the fertilizer that would be produced in Azotara in Pancheva. Therefore, it is now on the move of the government, as the fund has taken over commitments and states, to solve the issue and those problems related to Azotar in Panchev. Please, the state auditor must report regularly to the National Assembly and the Government. In some Western countries, the EU's state auditor submits four times a year budget audit reports, budget users' control. We point out that the big problem is why is there no final account since 2001? The government lacked control of budget users at the bar. You say -- we have a budget inspector and a budget inspection of the Republic, and you've got decommissioned by regions, which in municipalities and districts are doing some kind of control. I'm not sure about that control. I am sure and only trust the state auditor, under whose authority it will be this which we are talking about today when it comes to the budget and the set of budget laws which, as counterpart Krasic said, are primarily the laws of material law, material nature. These are not instructions, nor rules, nor regulations, these are laws of law. They must be respected. Huge funds were given by the government to profits in the field of agrarians. You have today, gentlemen of the government, the biggest criminal affair in the agrarian. I'll prove it to you on the next case. Just take the case of renting agricultural land, which I have asked several questions to the Government, i.e. The Department of Agriculture. Only two tenants in the Panchevo municipality owe in euros, and that is Miroslav Alexa owes 208 thousand euros, and Sinisa Radovanchev 819,000. What's going on? These people are now participating in the purchase of the largest and most important agricultural goods i.e. The old Tamis Panchevo, which has 4,000 acres of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12348	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12349	Mr. Jojic, you've really been brilliant by the arguments and the amendment and I'll leave you time to move on, with the fact that Mr. Krasic is just not in the O.R. right now. You know that he, as one of the best legal experts in our country, is the head of the defense team for the president of Professor Vojislav Seselj. The testimony of former defence minister and formerly VMA chief Zoran Stankovic is under way in front of The Hague tribunal, so Mr Krasic is monitoring the office upstairs. I hope that tonight at 10:00 p.m., as the citizens of Serbia and used to, on the second RTS programme, we will be able to track the recording of this extremely interesting testimony, which I know very well, and colleagues from the DS and colleagues from other parties, because it is already coming to an end that they wanted to present as some blame to impose the prosecutors of the anti-Serbian UN tribunal against our president. But, as time goes by, I think about 15 hours left, it's a false accusation, that there are absolutely no witnesses to the charges that have occurred so far, and most of all have become during the testimony and in some way, some open, and some, in our testimony, witnesses of the defence, and we can expect, first of all, that for the future of our people and all the children in Serbia, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and as a politician and as a legal expert, to finish and beat The Hague tribunal, and that these are our wishes, but we will see, return and be as always our leader and colleague of all of you in the Assembly benches of the NS RS. As far as the property tax law is concerned, we opened one topic yesterday, Mr. Dulic, primarily the functioning of the newly established tax administration bodies or the tax administration departments that are due to carry out this job, because by the end of 2008, those departments were set up and now we have problems. I listened very carefully to you this morning, Mr. Ilich, I really don't know who you meant. Yesterday, I followed all the arguments that were made by Serbian radicals, none of us mentioned that those poorest citizens would not be exempt by a member of the household, or that their tax would not be reduced. Probably others, but as far as Serbian radicals are concerned, we didn't have it as an argument, we just said that local self-government has a lot of problems because of the misunderstandings in the rules delivered by the ministry. Health Minister, I see you've had a cold, which means you've been opening windows after all, and you've taught us on the eve of the holiday that we have to close the windows, to save, to turn off the lights and to lock up the pots well when we're cooking lunch, but I hope that cold goes quickly. You see, no one is immune to these temperatures. As for the very functioning of these tax departments, yesterday I set out as an example of the municipality of Arandjelovac and all these excessive objections that we have included through these amendments, the head of the Tax Department of Mr. Ljubisa Mladenovic, and this amendment, which was submitted by Mr. Zoran Krasic, is just about updating tax returns by local self-government. I'll read this to you, Mr Krasic suggested, in the basic text of the law of Article 34, and now amend and supplement Article 17, to exempt from the item 4 that you only change in the part concerning the property taxpayer, and you say - which does not keep a specific book, and has filed a tax application, it is not obliged to submit a new application for the same property, except in the case of a change in the data contained in the application which is of an impact on the level of the tax liability. Mr Krasic asks for a new position to be added and says that he is extremely obliged from Article 4 of this article to submit a new tax application to the competent authority if the local self-government unit assembly decides to make new tax returns, to establish a new or update existing register of property taxpayers. What's that for? Because of the fact that in many local self-governments, when it comes to the original purpose of an object, this is about who creates income, who has a business space, someone from the housing space has turned a unit into a residential space, and you know that there is, and by the circumstances, that's how it happens, happy circumstances for that family and that individual, because many people have lost their jobs and that's their basic source of income. Yesterday, in front of the minister of religion, he understood it, you will understand now as well as you, as someone authorized in front of the Serbian government, I was talking about these examples, only then was I attached to the tax accounting element, that is, the way depreciation is reduced, but here is the same case. If accepted, and you did not accept, the amendment of counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic, that on the basis of a proposal from the city council, or municipal council, the municipality determines the price of a square meter, because this is the original income of funding local self-government, if you accept it, and this is now a logical trace of what we have started from the beginning, as proposed by Mr Krasic. Then it is normal for the municipality, if it would do so, if it would determine what the average market value is, because it is one of four elements for the tax account, so the average market price, times the area, times the quality coefficient, times the location coefficient, if indeed local self-government had an active role in it, then it is normal for one day to make a decision to update the records of all taxpayers, especially those who make this income, and therefore, Col. Krasic submitted this amendment. However, it is obvious that you are merely a declarative advocate for decentralisation and for a more effective collection of taxes from local self-government authorities, because of that property tax, Mr. Minister, Members of the People's Parliament, all of those ongoing transactions, i.e. the original detour that has local self-government, are funded. Yesterday I told you, 230 million in Kragujevac, it's so much a year from the property tax, projected for 2009. This is not the budget of many small municipalities in Serbia. It's a mental noun for some Belgrade municipalities, you know what 230 million is. What do Kragujevci get out of it? Nothing. I told you yesterday that Stevanović, who was there yesterday with his deputy, is still cheating on the citizens around Fiat. You can see that none of this model is going to be produced in some larger scale, but of those lies, fraud, deception, 300 grand, new model, tens of thousands of jobs, there's nothing. Therefore, accept this amendment by colleagues Krasic, in order to enable easier payment and better functioning of the tax administration department, who, like this example of the Arangelovac, know and have taken over the job, how they should work. And not only that, but because of their way of working, we have this case in Surdulica, we have a case in Leskovec, and it's much more efficient to collect property taxes. I don't know about these cities, but I know for an A.R. I know, compared to 2007 the rate of charge has increased by 47%. Here you go, colleague Jojic, another five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12350	Mr. Petar Jojic under this same amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I should have a lot more time, I could talk about this for five hours, how many taxpayers should be controlled in this country, so that finally the government, the state and the citizens of Serbia know where taxpayers' money is going. If I may, I suggest that the National Assembly accept the amendment submitted by the MP, Mr Zoran Krasic. He, above all, improves the text of the law, correctly regulates the collection and control of taxes and property. Madam President, if you'll allow me, I would like, since I have a rare opportunity to ask one question and ask Mr. Ilic, the Secretary of State, and let me point out and ask for a notice, to report on the control of the following beneficiaries of the budget: 17 administrations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 14 agencies, 11 funds, five directorates, nine offices, six services, four inspectorates, three offices and three councils. They're users of the budget. So this is all about the amendments, and it's all about the control of the funds that are collected and poured into what the French say is, the leather purse of the government, and that's the budget. We have a massive administration, the world's most massive. We have 111 republican organs and funds, and we have 25 ministries. It's very big, and this country has no need for administration. She's peeling the skin off the taxpayers. That's the problem. The poor girl pays the most of the poor people's taxes. I ask for a report and a notice from you, you are present, you have information all, can you give me information and people's MPs for the next beneficiaries of the budget, whether the control of their financial operations and spending in 2008 has been carried out, and this is: President of the Republic, Government, cabinet, Prime Minister, First Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister's Office for European Integration, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, Deputy Prime Minister's Office for Economic Development, Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy, Prime Minister for Social Policy, Secretary General of Government, Office for Media Co-operation, Council for Combating Corruption, Staff Management, Office for the Governing of Staff, Office for the Co-ordination of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Court of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Federal Court of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of (President: you have 30 seconds left. ) Department of Justice, Department of Prison Penalty. Thank you. I'll keep going a little bit later, when I get that chance. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12352	Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic has a word for this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12353	I am reporting to support Mr Krasic's amendment, a colleague from the SRS, because he definitely guarantees a more efficient tax on property and better functioning of the tax administration department. But what inspired me in this amendment, as far as local self-government is concerned, is a fact that we have been present in Belgrade for several days. As a psychologist, I'm used to tolerance, and very often I understand very unusual, eccentric, typical behaviors and attitudes. I didn't think anything could surprise me anymore. But participation in the Serbian political scene brings quite new experiences, and I would not be surprised to see it as a contribution to the expansion of the current described psychopathological categories. First of all, I think of the behavior that precedes me was surprised to see it contribute to the expansion of the current psychological pathological categories described. Before the founders of the government, especially the Government, which acts as if it's completely austic and separate from the people, to the extent that it doesn't hear, see, or react to the life problems of most people. It is particularly paradoxical that those who once attacked Milosevic are the retainer, who listens neither listens nor enters his people, and speaks to him through strictly controlled media, are now sitting in a government that, in its boast and non-interest for people has far overcome even the worst authorities. It turns out Sloba was a little baby for these new hermetics, who act as if the people of Serbia were from the country, and they come from some distant constellation, suggested a baby for these new hermetics, who act as if the people were Spute-Spooked Dr. Serbia's prime minister has not travelled anywhere since his entry into office, except for the opening of the Delta Centre in Montenegro. What's there to travel when no one even calls him, because a man doesn't get involved much in his job, but he works more like a security guard in the winter period. Like a famous doctor, who censures that acupuncture cures all diseases, from sneezing to schizophrenia, all the problems with us solves the beautiful Bora, as he has been called from a mile to a marketing team. It's one person in the role of predicate, all the problems with us solved by the beautiful Bora, as it has been called from miles of age by members of the Markentinschsed. The hero of the New Year's crisis has solved the gas, not just for us, but for Bosnia. Except for the undisturbed performance of Severina's song "Gas, Gas", it won't be that the beautiful Bora problem solved. What's going on? In Belgrade, on the night of the celebration of the Serbian New Year, electricity restrictions began, not only in suburban municipalities, but also in central Belgrade municipalities, such as Zveztar and Vozdovac. There was no electricity around the New Cemetery. It wasn't in the Jerkovic Brothers settlement. To all of this, the anti-Serbian-oriented Belgrade authorities are said to be repugnant towards the welcome of the Serbian New Year, although they are all celebrating, even in clubs and places, where the average Serbian foot with an average salary has not set foot in it. The people as a people, disobedient and used to glorify their own, and when forbidden, they threw themselves on ice with bounded cities in Serbia. The ice problem in mid-January falls within that famous syntagma - nothing can surprise us. The only recommendation that came from strictly controlled media was - don't leave the place without a direct need. Even in cold apartments, dark, broke, hopeless, dark moods, as in a new ice age, for which even the global economic crisis cannot be considered responsible. Even those who took advice not to go out to the squares, not to visit friends, relatives still neighbors, but the next day, and especially today they faced a terrible realization that there is a short need for leaving the residence. In fear of their own business, especially in conditions where without elemental empathy and solidarity, some new employers don't care about how employees will arrive, even if they're wearing a broken leg in their hand, people have arrived at work with socks on their shoes, that's that old anticlais recipe, often inefficient, in their chills, walking on cleaned Augustes, instead of frozen sidewalks, because the chances of being hit by a wheel are almost identical to those that you break any of the limbs, spine or head if you're walking on the sidewalk. Employees in this assembly, staff who have dramatically low wages, from, say, fifteen thousand, the salary of a high school maid, with 80 dinars per hour of overtime, asked us to at least mention how much difficulty they had to come to work. Unlike the owners, they have no money, no fancy cars, and even if they drive some junk they usually don't have the money to buy winter tires. In the Serbian capital, only the main streets were cleared this morning, especially those linking two politically strategic points of importance, this assembly and the government. There's no red carpet for "special guest stars" from ministers, but at least the road is nice when they're in transit to the Assembly. As soon as you step away from this direction of chaos, the number of fractures and injuries has reached giant dimensions. If this is the case with the working-age population, what about the unhappy pensioners, who usually suffer from osteoporosis, but often loneliness, and still have to go out and supply themselves? What about the sick because the viruses are harassing again? It's like from a nigger: you throw up, every muscle hurts, you go to a health home, and you break your leg. If this is the situation in the Serbian capital, which is always slightly makeupd compared to the rest of Serbia, what is only in some remote, underpopulated mountain-mounted areas? No one from the government has ever thought to appeal to employers to show understanding of the difficulties of their workers in these days and not to use the ice age as a time to train strictness. They arrive in well-heated cars, with winter tyres of three-hundred euros, cheering their precise "rollex" watches, which they received from the godfathers, and then threatening and blackmailing workers that if they are ten minutes late again, they will not get a salary. In Serbia, anything is possible, and it is possible to get fired because of ice. That kind of mobbing, that kind of chit-chat at work, we've been through it for a long time. Speaking of amendments concerning local self-government, why, in fact, the mayor of Belgrade, and the famous owner of all marketing agencies and media spaces, whom young people call "Mr Burns", by the reputation of the Simpsons, who also the local boss, did not appeal to employers to show understanding of employees at a time when any tolerance and solidarity is really necessary. If there are not enough crews and people to cast salt, which did not invite the people to come before employers to show understanding of the busy City Assembly and take a handful of salt and spray before walking. It is likely that such actions, which would involve the people, are not very safe for the city government, because this same people would warmly welcome those who, at a lower price of oil, have increased the prices of transport, telephone and utility. The emergency centre in Belgrade is packed, 300 breaks a day. It's similar in Chačka, Luciani, Užica, and small towns, villages and villages, and not to mention. Last night, a famous health minister, Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, visited RTS, who in no way referred to the alarming situation in health institutions because of these difficult weather conditions. Right, the topic was health corruption, but in just such difficult circumstances, where competition is large, corruption appears in its size. Whoever does, they'll be in line before the 290. For him is found casts, bandages, scales, and he that has no God saves him. I guess that's why yesterday was the minister of religion, and today, after the successful planting of trees with Mrs. Borko Vukic, a Minister of Spatial Planning and Ecology appeared. That's less important. At this point, it's important that the man is orthopedic. I see that he is currently absent and I believe that he went to help one of the MPs or one of the employees, because it was difficult to come to this assembly, and on that behalf I wanted to show the citizens of Serbia that opposition MPs are coming to the assembly. So, because the mail is hard to build up the dignity of this assembly, I can't dress like Mr. Canak, but in this I arrived at the Assembly, and now I have decent shoes, for the respect of this high house. In any case, I think the government may have come out of its autism by sending us an orthopedic today, but I urge you to become human again, to lead the accountant out of its autism by sending us today an orthopedic, on the vital needs of those who voted for responsible authority. You are all but the unresponsible authority and authority that belongs to this people. This people don't deserve this kind of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12354	Thank you, Mrs. Jankovic. Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12355	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the government, Mr Krasic, as his amendment, is now being made important by the hall, and throws it away. Mr Krasic has submitted an amendment all in his desire to correct this bill, but I think that some other things should, when it comes to this amendment, also have been mentioned by certain MPs. We all know that this tax is the income of local self-government, but we also have some more questions for local self-government and for the representatives of the government who are here, it's all part of this amendment. So what we're interested in is really what Mr. Jojic mentioned earlier, what I'm saying here, with the moss on this side, all of us for a few months now, and that's -- we want to see the final accounts. In our good intention to see the final account for the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as to see the final accounts of public enterprises, I think it hides the answer to many questions. For example, if we saw the 2006 final bill, if we saw an analysis of how budget funds were spent, then we would see, for example, that year, the NIP allocated 11.5m euros for the reconstruction of the Banatski dvor. We now hear from all who are relevant, and these are representatives of the Ministry of Energy, the director of Serbiagas, etc., that the price that is necessary to reconstruct the Banatski dvor is about 22 million dollars. That 11.5m euros would certainly be more than that at the moment, I was talking about it on 29 October this year, and then I said that current and then Assistant Minister of Energy Mr Milutin Svedovic, who was assistant and Mr Naumov, who was Minister of Energy, abused his position, forged, if I may say so, so he changed the purpose of these funds. The tender, which was to be called for the reconstruction of the Banat Court, has also changed in fact these funds have been spent on creating the Banatski Dvor - Gospodinci pipeline. This is the answer to the question of whether the previous governments were responsible for not being reconstructed the Banatical Court and if we could see the final bill, if we could talk about it, then we would see that the funds were then misused. Or that they're being rerouted, at the end of the line, so we can say that there were no evil intentions, we want to believe that there were no evil intentions, but the funds have been rerouted to something else, the Banatical Court has not been reconstructed, and the citizens have remained this winter, that is, this January on Christmas and the next days without gas and will remain without gas for the next days, as the situation develops. What does it matter? This is important because we heard today that the government is going to try to do what the LDP suggested yesterday, and that's the programme of measures. The government said one of them would accept it, which is to cut the bills to the citizens who pay for the gas. But we have a problem here, too. We have two types of citizens, one that are heated on remote heating, through remote heating, and others that belong to individual consumers. Once again, local self-government, say in Novi Sad, has raised the price of heating for those heating through the remote heating system in January. We have parts of the city in Novi Sad, and I know places in Vojvodina that haven't had heating in four days. We have those who don't have hot water today, etc. I'm interested in how it's going to be done, whether it's going to be done in accordance with the law. So, the law prescribes that twice a month is determined, so on the 16th of the month and the first day of the next month, what is gas consumption? I'm interested in whether 16 January of this year, and if I'm not mistaken, it's tomorrow, "Srbigas", or those who are responsible for that, the heat, will exercise control with individual consumers how much gas is spent, whether there are resources for that, etc. So we have a big problem. Someone's responsible, citizens can't handle it. This morning, we had the opportunity and the pleasure of listening to the director of "Serbigas" on "The Fist", on a show of one half an hour, where we heard a lot of things we couldn't agree on. One of the worst issues is that citizens will pay this, as things stand, unless the government rebalances the budget and provides the funds to pay the debt, which is due to this exceptional cost, because we buy the gas that someone else stored, some other state, that it will eventually have to pay or that the government will subsidize it in some way. I'm afraid it's going to happen first, or it's going to fall, as usual, on the burden of the citizens. So we have more problems. Number one, we didn't have any heat, he picked up the gas. Are we going to pay the full price, or are we going to pay the price we've paid so far, increased by 30%, or are we going to be reduced by that price. Another problem is that, individual gas consumers will pay for this gas. We know that for each of them, however, the problem is that the damage caused by the citizens, not only were they frozen, not only would they have increased costs because they were heating up in other ways, alternative ways or however, to warm up their homes, but there was damage, many of them got sick, many of them couldn't work etc. Who's going to make up for that damage? That's where we come into something else, as the director of "Srbigas" said today. We'll sue Ukraine. I have to remind the government that there are two contracts that regulate our gas purchase. One contract is a contract we have with Gazprom, Srbigas. There's one part of it, of course it's being run as an official secret, and that's why we're going to suggest what's next, so we're going to see. So that's what's called an official secret, but that's what's called a higher force, so this is what it says: fire, explosions, natural disasters, floods, earthquakes, etc. and international economic sanctions from the UN. I'm sure we're all aware that the reason she stopped delivering gas isn't either of these. Furthermore, what is in that contract is that the handover to Beregov is the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, all responsibility to Beregov belongs to the seller, more specifically to the Gazprom side. We have a second contract regarding gas purchase, where on our behalf he buys Jugorosgas, gas for Serbia. There's not a single word in that contract for a situation like this. Now someone has come to think of it, probably because of the political correctness of those whom we gave to NIS, who in 10 or 12 years, since the first agreement with Russia was made with the pipeline and related to the Banatski Court did not invest, that someone for political correctness would sue Ukraine. We've heard that there are geopolitical interests involved, etc. So it's completely abnormal, it's totally unacceptable that "Serbigas" sues Ukraine when it's clearly defined by the contracts that we have with "Gasprom" and the contract that we have with "Yugorosgas" that they owe us to deliver the gas. Citizens are not interested in geopoliticals at all, citizens are interested in who will make up for their damage. We in parliament are interested in who will compensate for Serbia's damage. That's why we brought in certain measures yesterday, so eight measures to eliminate the gas crisis. The first measure is to make a decision on the reduction of the heating bill for a period when there was no adequate or satisfactory supply of heating, decision-making in the process of determining the crisis. I must remind you that the Energy Act is a commitment to the government, Article 76. On January 6th, however, the government has found that there has been a disturbance, but since then it has not considered at all how the damage will be determined. The third measure is the adoption of a programme to help citizens and businesses who have suffered damage. So it has to go from the budget reserve, whether it's going to be redeployed in the budget or in any way, it's a government thing, but it has to be done in an appropriate way. What was announced today by the director of "Serbiagas" cannot happen, that citizens will have to pay for this gas collection that "Serbiagas" has towards Hungary, that is, Germany. The fourth measure would be to initiate a case against Gazprom. I've cited what is considered a higher power, as it stands in our contract with Gazprom, there's no word about anyone turning a tap anywhere. It's not Ukraine's fault, it's nobody else's fault, it's our own fault that we have a different treatment than Slovakia or Bulgaria, it's our own fault that we gave someone something or gave them something for nothing, and in return we get nothing. We are seeking to determine the responsibility of the Ministry of Mining and Energy for failing to take timely measures. Unfortunately, the government acts in such a way as to live 24 hours or live from now until tomorrow. So there's no plan, any reaction is too late. We're looking for, due to the unprepared underground warehouse Banatski Dvor, someone is responsible for that. I said and repeat again that in 2006, 11.5m euros were allocated from the NIP to reconstruct the Banatski Dvor. That money's being rerouted to the Banatski Dvor-Gosgenti gas pipeline. Someone's responsible for that. All documents suggest that the current and current assistant of Energy Minister Mr. Svetovic is responsible. Whether it is or not, I don't know, but the documents point to it. We are seeking the responsibility of JP "Srbigas" management, as well as "Yugorosgas", which is the mediator of gas imports, making a decision that sets out the amount of 22m euros for the reconstruction of the Banatski Dvor. So that's something necessary. We can't wait for the next winter like this. We must have our natural gas warehouse Banatski Dvor, ready to store the gas and keep the citizens safe. You have been here for days and months saying that signing a contract with Gazprom, a memorandum and what you called the South Stream, the basic conditions for the agreement, is a solution to Serbia's energy stability for a long time. We only got a cold slap 20 days later. So, we didn't solve security, we just got into addiction. By building this underground warehouse, that is, by reconstructing and bringing in the purpose, of course, with the help of those you gave 51%, which is "Gasprom", with their help that Serbian citizens never come into this situation again. We're looking for a change of laws and security of gas reserves. That's the seventh measure. The eighth measure is to adopt a regulation on the security of natural gas supply. There are an extremely large number of questions that have been raised these days. Of course, in every way possible, he's trying to push it under the carpet. Some television logs look like they're being arranged at some Gazprom bureau, not in Serbia. So many attempts to ignore the Russian side really lead to a feeling of disgust. So it's the Russians and our government's fault we don't have gas. All that's said is eye petting. It's the one who delivers the gas, and it's the one who isn't able to provide it. The fact that they have some slow, that's their problem. We had to take care never to get into a situation like this, and we can do it ourselves and with those with whom you made these famous contracts for the South Stream, and for the Banatski Dvor, where you donated NIS, or 51% for a little money. As Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Dacic himself said, if he had wondered his party, it would never have been done in this way. Please, Parliament Speakers, since we see that Mr. Buha's chairman is not in the O.R., Mr. Andric asked the other day to call the Industry Committee and now, as a member, please do everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to be in the next day or two at the opportunity to appoint an Industry Committee, to be called on by the Minister of Energy, at the very end of the line by the Prime Minister and the one who solves all the problems in this country, Mr. Boris Tadic, who has "solved" this gas problem. I ask you to organise a Committee on Industry, preferably in the same room as those two in common, since it will certainly be as much of an interest in MPs. We need to get to who is responsible for this situation, which are sanctions for those who are responsible, so that citizens of Serbia and Serbia will never find themselves in one of these conditions again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12356	I'm going to ask my colleagues from the SRS to tell me today if Mr. Buha can schedule this committee or I'm going to use my right to schedule it. We can talk to each other during the day, possibly in the morning, and he can schedule a committee. Mr. Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12357	At the same time, the replica and the indication that a majority part of what man discussed must still be kept in line with the subject of the agenda. In fact, what we've been hearing about for a while has nothing to do with how to file tax returns on citizens. The replica consists of the following, compared to what Mr. Maraš has said so far, when it comes to the Banatski dvor project and the Banatski dvor-Gospodinci pipeline project. Some of the things that have been presented are true, but I think that the interpretation of these facts is completely wrong or that the conclusions that occur based on a few of the facts that have been presented are wrong. Namely, if a gas pipeline is built from Banatski Dvor, it cannot be built without the necessary infrastructure in the Banatski Dvor itself, so that the project is wider, more comprehensive and more complete than the construction of the warehouse itself. To clarify, I'm going to give you just a few facts, for the sake of the public that it's known to be just one of the warehouses, possibly the most significant warehouse. And the word itself says -- the warehouse, it used to be the source. With nearly 10 million cubic metres of gas that Serbia needs per day in the season, we get almost 9 million from the Russian side. It should come that way. We can get up to a million dollars from home resources, and so far we're equipped to get 500 grand out of it. It's just like that. So there's no magic wand that this government, which I'm an angry opponent, or any previous one, could do something more significant and more. It's very important to say for the citizens, so that people don't think this is about the sloth of the previous, this or any other government, when it comes to domestic resources. When it comes to the warehouse itself, as it says -- the warehouse, meaning the storage of the gas, that means there must be a certain storage pillow of that gas that needs to be filled. Who broke into that warehouse? It was broken down in the '90s by the SPS, which, in fact, ruined it. When it was ruined, it was then necessary to invest considerable financial resources in order to do so. Speaking of the government and members of the government, members of the ministry and responsibilities, for the sake of the public, it is necessary to know that the following is said that the first government, which has ever made a decision to deal with this, is the government in which Rade Naumov was minister, which is the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. The next government, in which the minister was Aleksandar Popovic, is the second government of Vojislav Kostunica, and the first government in this country to start a reconstruction project and start filling. So that's something that can't be done in three months and citizens need to know. It's a job that's been done for years. It's possible someone's doing four, and it'd be worth three, and in that sense, they can take notice... (President: Time. ..but not that there was nothing to do. When it comes to responsibility, I repeat, the pipeline project is a comprehensive project and involves the reconstruction of the Banatian Court, so it absolutely does not stand to note that the funds have been rerouted to something else, and the real truth in all this is that at that time, under the pressure of the Duke's DS, especially in the previous government, it has rerouted the assets of the Vojvodina as an Autonomous Region, so that it would use them for the needs of reconstruction of anything in the oil industry. So that's a key question, and all of this other stuff you said I can't comment on, it's your political right to have a reflection on whatever you want, but I just said this for the sake of the truth, so you know. It would be better if you were an opposition to this government than to mention something that's gone past. I'm inviting you to be the opposition, but I don't know how much that goes with your hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12358	Guilt and responsibility are determined on the basis of facts. Mr. Marash, here you go. You have your word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12359	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 104. Mr. Aligrudic, there can be no opposition to this government, not to the previous governments that led to this. Of course we're opposition to this government, of course there's a lot we're criticizing. You know for yourself that out of the 15 minutes I've been saying, 14.50 minutes has been directed towards the criticism of the policy that is now being conducted when it comes to energy. Unfortunately, Mr. Aligrudic, you've ignored some things. One, Mr. Naumov did a lot of things, first he signed "Nabuko," right? First Mr. Naumov signed Nabucco, so none of it happened. The first Mr. Aleksandar Popovic said he would resign if Banatski Dvor was not done, so it was not done. I'm telling you that someone has misused funds knowingly, unconsciously, deliberately. Someone's been using the funds that were identified for Banatski Dvor, the reconstruction of the warehouse, for something else. You say, it's been a few years. Why didn't you do that? Secondly, I have to ask you, how you didn't have 22m euros for Banatski Dvor, and you had 500-600m euros for Telekom Republika Srpska. You paid 200m euros more than the other bidder. What do we have from this Telekom Republika Srpska? That's what I'm interested in. You've invested in someone else's country. What about our country? Why didn't you use the funds here? You weren't the subject of this, Mr. Aligrudic, the DSS. There's this responsibility of yours, I mentioned, you started and you didn't finish anything. You were petting your eyes, too, just like they are now. We're dealing with something else right now. We are seeking responsibility for the damage to the citizens and the economy. Someone has to be responsible for it, someone has to regulate it, not the citizens themselves. I'm undermining, this morning the director of Serbiagasa said he believes, fears, assumes that citizens will still pay through some bill. It can't be like that. It can't be like that. Citizens aren't responsible for that. Serbiagas, Jugorosgas, Gazprom, dot are responsible. They're the ones who have to be held accountable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12360	Mr. Aligrudic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12361	Mr. Marash, there cannot be an opposition to unargued criticism. That's what the main problem is. Since you can't justify criticism until the end, then you're wasting energy all over the place and you're dealing with something that you don't really know. When someone starts a job and invests certain funds that are in line with the agreement of the previous government or the government before it, which was determined to do some work, I guess that one is responsible for it, can't be responsible for something he does. You can criticise the speed of work, you can criticize the relationship of funds invested on one side and on the other, I'm allowing you now, because you and then were opposition to that government. You're consistent in that sense, I'm not criticizing you for that. I'm saying it's amazing that your exposure doesn't notice the great responsibility of those who destroyed that system, which is known to be who they are and what they're called and who are sitting up here, on our left, and that they're actually SPS. And to focus on something that was in between, through criticism that it wasn't done quickly enough and that not enough money was invested, etc., and that belongs to categories that you would have to, for serious criticism, and to prove it, which we have neither time nor court that can do so. That's why I recommended that you do something that's up to date. Speaking of this current, how much does your perception of criticism speak in your debate in parliament, this thesis speaks of the Serbian and Russian side's responsibilities for not delivering gas to Serbia. Look, legally, you're right, you're formally right. If there's a contract with the Russian side and the Russian side commits to delivering something, so it doesn't deliver, formally-lawfully, as a lawyer I'm looking at, there are and conditions have been created to sue the other side for not delivering the obligation to the first party. On the other hand, you know, if you're telling the citizens, and you're ignoring what the birds on the branch today know why there was an objective halt in gas delivery, then that means that you, as a representative of the opposition political party that needs to be full, have a handful of arguments to attack power in Serbia, you're dealing with that kind of argument that's extremely superficial and that won't actually do any harm to the ruling coalition in the way you address them. That's what the point is. You can't say, you know, basically sue the Russians. Everyone knows, birds on the border know that there is a Ukrainian-Russian dispute, that half of Europe does not receive gas from Russia because of that hub, etc. Now you engage in that analysis as well as you do, and then you sentence the Russian condemnation, as if you were an opposition to them, and to the Serbian sides, i.e. The governments of the Republic of Serbia, because they have not, I have no idea, fulfilled their contractual obligation to Serbia. It's, one, naive looking at the thing, and two, it's looking at the thing, how you carried it out, it's really very superficial. It's not a problem, I'm not giving you political lectures, I'm just telling you friendlyly that the way you address citizens and MPs is pretty weak, very weakly justified and can't do any good for your position, except for the impression that we've already acquired from the DSS, that LDP is actually not a real opposition party.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12362	Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12363	I think the citizens are asking another question. Why is the DSS defending these positions that the government of Boris Tadic is now in? Which is why every day when we talked about this pipeline, the DSS defended this pipeline more than the Russians themselves? I think the citizens are asking themselves that. Citizens wonder who's responsible for this situation. That's what I was talking about, Mr. Aligruditch, 14 and a half minutes ago, but you only heard what you wanted. You said earlier that we were acting as opposition to the Russian side. Unfortunately, you act like a party in power in Russia. That's your position here. That's sad. You should defend the interests of Serbian citizens. Of course, in my address, you ripped out what suits you. I haven't said for a moment, or I haven't made it clear enough for you, that we owe our gratitude to whoever started the reconstruction of the Banatian Court, but we also owe the criticism of what we care about. Which is why the funds, I repeat, are hundreds of millions of euros, in fact 200m euros, we gave more to Telekom Republika Srpska. What's the need for that, what's in it for us? Why isn't it invested in the Banatical Court, among other things, of course? It is now shown that it is an urgent issue and that the citizens suffer, that the economy suffers because of it. Who's gonna make it up to you? Citizens. That's what the director of Serbiagas said today. I'm not saying that with his good will. Of course I agree that in the 1990s they destroyed the Banatian Court, so they destroyed our lives, destroyed our country, that policy. Of course I agree with that, and it's clear, as you say, every bird on the branch. LDP, and I believe that you're a big part of it and you're okay with it, we don't just want to be critical. We offered the programme of measures, we offered eight measures to the government. The government, as I see it, is today in its session, one of them will be placed on the agenda, to cut the bills. We've put up with eight measures. We want to be constructive. In this situation, no one wants to see to it that a government is responsible, that a government is poor, unusable, incompetent, that's not the interest of the citizens right now. It is our interest for citizens to suffer the least possible damage from this, to compensate for the damage and to ensure the energy security of Serbia. Your government adopted an energy strategy, a year and a half after that this strategy was abandoned, and that's our criticism, and this government did so before. You left the strategy you adopted, which was great. It was a great strategy your government adopted, but you abandoned it, which is your fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12364	Mr. Aligrudic, again in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12365	Mr. Marash, you can see your role however you like, I said, I can't argue or intend to. Only when it comes to a relationship to a business called a contract with the Russian side or later with Gazprom, which this government is currently implementing, in that part we cannot be opposed to the idea that this government is trying to implement, not because we are not an opposition party or that we want to forgive this government for what it is doing, but simply because it is an important state project. Why is it important? Take, for example, if this contract had happened that we had concluded much earlier and that this contract had happened to be offered to other countries in our environment a little earlier, I know this is a hypothesis, but it would have activated the South Stream that would have bypassed the problem that exists at the moment, which Europe and this part of Europe has with Ukraine and the Ukrainian hub. If that were realized and there was a South Stream at this point we would be receiving Russian gas without any distractions or problems and at this point we wouldn't have any kind of problem with gas supply. It's just like that. And this example, which is extremely hypothetical, I know that hypothetically, it best speaks in favor of the fact that whoever represented the Serbian side, regardless of which political party does, is choosing a rational and good political move, making an agreement with one of the largest exporters of gas at this point in this part of the world in a way that will allow Serbia not only to supply gas, but to put someone who is carrying out the transfer of that gas. It's one of the important state projects. I understand that maybe we don't see the same thing, and I understand that you're probably as a political party for political reasons, first of all, rooting for the Nabucco project, which, unlike the South Stream, offers the Russian side, is something that's really on the far side. Even if Serbia completely gave up on the South Stream project, if the Russian side gave up on the South Stream project, it would have been at least three times as long. So it's about the interest of Serbian citizens to be supplied with gas, regardless of the legal grips of a contract that is currently responsible for something or not. What Serbia does when it comes to the whole idea to attach to the South Stream and that it is realized through our country is actually the idea of supplying Serbia with gas in a good way. That was the whole idea. If you have this idea, you have a different idea, and you want to picture it to the citizens of Serbia as a political party, which would be effective, efficient and that would allow Serbian citizens not to freeze, because, I repeat, the warehouse is not a source, and domestic resources are relative to the needs Serbia has in the winter period barely 10%. If you deny this, you cannot deny this because the facts, which is your alternative direction, what is what you propose to Serbian citizens to do to Serbia? It is a very simple and simple question for you to provide energy to Serbia, to provide Serbia with gas and that Serbia could normally develop further. What is it that will be a project that will bring Serbia the economic benefits it will inherit in the future, that's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12366	Mr. Marash. Please bring the dialogue to an end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12367	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I agree with you, of course, that we will bring the dialogue to an end, and I am also grateful for the initiative you have shown, that you will accept our proposal and schedule the Committee on Industry, with all those demands that we have just made, but only once again to exchange dialogue with Mr Aligrudic. Mr. Aligrudic, we've never advocated Nabucco, we've never been against South Stream, we've been against the way it comes to South Stream, which no country has agreed to, has come into a position of consent, to sell 51% of its oil industry. That's what we're talking about. One more thing to tell you. It's quite clear that the gas warehouse Banatski Dvor is not the source. The Banatski Court warehouse, what's it for? It's just that over the summer, when the gas is cheaper, it buys gas, stores in a warehouse, and in a situation like this, when you have such a great partner like "Gasprom"... One more thing I have to tell you, gentlemen, I don't know if you know that, gentlemen of the DSS, I see you're frowning, do you know who owns the pipeline through Ukraine? "Gasprom." Do you know who has warehouses in Austria? "Gasprom." Who from that warehouse to today hasn't given a single cubic meter to Serbia? "Gasprom." Today we heard again from the director of "Serbigas" that in the last two days they have been negotiating with them to be delivered from that warehouse, but the pipes are like this and we can accept it all, but I want to tell you that "Gasprom" didn't occur to help "Serbiagas" and Serbia. You hear Putin talking about this crisis to mention other countries, he didn't mention Serbia once. There's a problem here, Mr. Aligrudic, that you can't sue the Russians, you can't tell them. You're saying we're legally and formally right. Well, you're legalists. What's enough for us? Legally and formally. After some "Gasprom" sues "Naftagas", as the Ukrainian firm is called, that's their problem, we have "Gasprom" responsible, we "Yugorosgas" is responsible, we as citizens are "Srbigas" responsible, we as businessmen are "Srbigas" responsible. End of story. There's a responsibility, don't give us any black Nabucco? We don't have anything to do with the "Nabuca" or anything else, we're also on the South Stream. We were in favor of an agreement with the Russians about Gazprom, but not in this way, to sell 51% of our company, to get that South Stream. I said, a document signed for the South Stream is called basic terms for the basic agreement. That means the real deal will be someday. That means you know it well, Mr. Aligrudic, in order to achieve the South Stream must all the countries that signed the contract make a decision about it. What if Slovenia, and we heard a day or two ago, veto something like that, then what happens? There won't be a South Stream. I'm just saying, we don't have much security. Of course the Russians are the biggest suppliers, or "Gasprom", of course they are the strongest, but there is no reason why we should treat them in such a way as to sue Ukraine rather than Russia. We can't touch them, it's not true, they're guilty, they have to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12368	The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12369	I can't go into the debate in detail just about these elements that you've brought out because it would be a vain job. I call you on the next thing, when you're already talking about determining the responsibility of Gazprom or you're talking about your partner's lack of confidence, I don't mind, here's the DSS as a political party will gladly accept any advice from LDP when it comes to some radical and significant alternative that you would suggest at this point. That's what I asked you to do, say that alternative, there's no problem. Alternative to gas supply by Russia, it is specifically a contract with Gazprom, a reconstruction of Banatski Dvor, which is not a source but a warehouse. Great thesis. So when you're criticizing things, you have to make an alternative. When we criticised the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period, for the past five or six months, we also made alternatives, we also made proposals, which none had ever been accepted, and some were accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which were proposed to the citizens, as was the text of the Bill on Deposit Insurance. We propose a normal bill, the government rejects it with an explanation which makes its own and submits a bill on the insurance of deposits that is unacceptable, except for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's how things are done basically. You'll just have to when you talk about things like this... You don't have to do anything, don't hold my word, I've gone too far. I'm sorry right now. But it would be good to talk about these things if they were given a concrete proposal. If I say -- this Gazprom doesn't work, no deal with them is good, they show themselves in their ability to Serbia in the way in which the contracts are realised, they ask us to monster things, etc., we don't want to do business with them, then it takes for those of interest and heating and gas supply in this country and other derivatives to simply say-- instead we suggest that we do it and do it. As we said - if the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not to be signed because of political conditions, it was our political position, we suggest that the government of the Republic of Serbia concentrate all its forces on trade agreements with the EU and that the problem be overcome politically, because it must be co-operated with that union in some way. You know, you always have to give an alternative to what you're proposing. I understand the criticism, I can agree with it or disagree with it, it's not an object, but it's the essence of being given one particular alternative when it's seen that there's a problem or some wall that you're seeing, I don't notice it, but you're noticing it, that it exists somewhere, so give us some concrete alternative, so let's all imagine it over it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12370	The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12371	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for article 104. Rules of Procedure. I believe that the dignity of the Assembly is marred because clouding the essence of the problem is a violation of the Parliament's dignity, as well as the common sense of the citizens of Serbia. Why am I talking about fogging? Normally, I don't mean a colleague of the Marash, who made it quite clear that the whole problem was about this gas problem, and he quite well explained what it was all about. It is, however, that it is definitely forgotten that any plan or programme concerning the energy sphere was abandoned in 2004. So we didn't have absolutely the kind of plan and program that could invigorate and that today wouldn't result in this situation if we didn't have gas, and we don't have gas, and we can't store it. This is the result that for four years, the energy sphere has obviously not been properly processed. In order for there to be an alternative, some solution that would be an alternative to another solution, there should be a solution first and foremost. I guess that's what a colleague meant when he was talking about alternatives. We don't have an alternative in terms of South or Nabucco. Why? Because we don't have a contract, an international contract concluded on the construction of that South Stream. I remind you that we have an international contract on the sale of NIS, and I would also remind all the MPs that no other state interested in building South Africa has sold its oil company in order to eventually get that South Stream or to participate in the realization of that South. So we don't have alternatives, because there's nothing to be alternative to. We're just suggesting -- okay, let's close the contract on building South Stream, come on, like everyone else who's interested in doing that. But let's, in that case, break up this contract to sell NIS, because obviously that contract has not reached its goal. Today, Serbian citizens have a big problem with heating, have a big problem with gas, industry has a problem. That's the result. I don't agree that the birds on the branch know who's responsible for this energy crisis, because the bird on the branch is gone, they're probably cold, so they're not sitting on the branch anymore, and I think Serbian citizens are going to be humming in their apartments soon, like they were nagging for Orthodox Christmas. So I don't know if it's that clear that this Ukraine is guilty of today's gas crisis in Serbia. We mentioned it was Gazprom, and Jugorosgas, who is directly interested and directly involved in the whole gas delivery story to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12372	Mr. Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12373	Replica, I will not refer to any other provision, although it would be the basis, because you, Mrs Popovic, as vice-president of Parliament, must actually safeguard the dignity of this discussion. You cannot pay attention to the previous dialogue of the two MPs that once, especially from your political party, you stand aside claiming implicitly in your discussion that this other person who stands up to someone who opposes that first insults the dignity of this home. That's not right. Thank you for saying you didn't know any alternative to the problem we were talking about. That makes a lot of sense, but when it comes to talking to each other between us, I think this is extremely incorrect. There are two MPs who are opposed to what they say, there's a difference in seeing things, and now you're talking about one, who said an opinion that's different from your party, you're saying that putting that opinion offends the dignity of the People's House, and I don't know what else. It's really not right on your part, I didn't expect it from you. It's a very bad way to talk. Now I'm really calling in my word for the last time so I don't mind further discussions on the amendments, and I'm not going to do any of you LDPs any further, because I don't think there's any need for that, because this would eventually turn into a vain debate between us about something that I don't think anyone alive is interested in. I simply had to react, not because of something else, but because of your position as Vice President of Parliament. I don't think you have any rights to what you just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12374	Mr. Maras, first of all in the Rules of Procedure, then Mrs. Judita Popovic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12375	I apologize to the president and the MPs, I said I'd never answer again. Unfortunately, Mr. Aligrudic is coming out, so I'll just be a minute. Mr. Aligrudic, I had to answer because I'm not going to argue with your views anymore, since it's clear that we're on one half, and you're on the other half when it comes to everything. But, Mr. Aligrudic, Mrs. Popovic did not say she had no alternative to this situation. During my address, I've repeatedly said what an alternative is. Mrs Popovic said there is no alternative to building the South Stream, because it is obvious that Nabucco will not be or will not be soon. No one is against the South, I underline, especially the LDP, but we are not in the way it was done, to the uncertainty we still have around it, Mr. Aligrudic. The LDP is certainly for the security and security of citizens when it comes to gas supply. We believe that the ways in which he has been provided so far do not guarantee that there is a responsibility of Gazprom, Jugorosgas and Serbia. This moves the responsibility of those who are guilty because Serbian citizens are not supplied with gas in the right way. What's the alternative, Mr. Aligrudic? Fourth or fifth time I've spoken. Reconstitute the Banatski Dvor and you will have a gas storage facility in which you will have gas reserves. It's an alternative in this situation. The alternative to that, no one's even talked about it, Mr. Aligruditch.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12376	Mr. Velimir Ilic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12377	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who knows which time we're talking about a topic that is now current and we repeat, and that various parties are using it in their own way, to run some campaign around this situation that has arisen. I've spoken here many times -- no dilemma, no contract signed, and the South Stream is done. It's gotta be done, we got state guarantees from Russia and that's gonna work. But in order for us to survive until it is done, a Banatian court must be done. We recently heard here the director of Serbiagas who spoke -- there's gas stored, but there's no equipment to pump the gas and put it into the net. The project costs 20m euros. I repeat, the previous government has singled out the funds and transferred it to Vojvodina. Vojvodina has requested that all investments in the Vojvodina area be financed from the Vojvodina Capital Fund for Investments. The pytics asked for it ultimately and all the funds were transferred. No capital facility in Vojvodina has been built out of it. The Banatical Court has not been touched - the funds have been spent. The defensive embankments are not touched - the funds have been spent. Only in November did they spend 12m euros to protect from mosquitoes - November. That's what we talked about here. The rebalancing carried 12m euros in protection against mosquitoes, I think that's true, it said. The money was spent on our campaign to win a big victory in Vojvodina, and that's true. They cheated on the people, they promised, nothing was done. What about the canal cleanup? What about the Banat water supply project? What about the construction and discharge of the water in Zrenjanin? All the projects are down. They take the money that follows the Constitution completely for investments and transfer it to the Capitalfond for the investments of Vojvodina and spend it. They don't account for anyone, nor return here to parliament -- as funds have been spent. Did we get a report on what happened to those funds? No, but it's billions. Of course, Pajtic thus has a party, as he comes to mind, and his coalition buddies. They've taken away their Democratic Party and everything, and they're not even in control of anyone. There is no country in Europe, a serious country that has no gas reserves for the winter period when temperatures are below minus 20 degrees. You know that temperatures fall in Ukraine, in Russia at minus 40 degrees in the winter period, and it's impossible to reach gas throughout the season. So every serious state has gas reserves, and we're the only one who doesn't have them. Why don't we have them - the money's been spent on purpose and we need to know that? The second thing is, the gentlemen of Vojvodina are not going to make a concession on the highway, but rather wants Serbia to borrow and build a new Sad-Horgos for them. They want Temerin's loop, whose construction is under way, 50m euros in debt and credit. He wants a 60m-euro Batajnik loop, Dobanovska loop 30m euros, while the reconstruction of Novi Sad-Subotica is 40m euros -- all Serbia has done with credit lines. The state is in charge of giving them money. Belgrade-Croatian border, Sremska Raca, Republika Srpska, Belgrade-Vrsac, the Banatska highway -- all done by the credit lines of the Republic of Serbia. The Lords of the New Sad take away the means that follow them according to the Constitution, and do what they will; they behave with pride, and spend not on purpose. They have political accounts, you saw, it's been happening lately, Pajtic is completely out of control. You've also heard here some who write the Constitution, share calendars, have made the Republic. People, Boris Tadic, who today is his birthday, I congratulate him on his birthday, must understand that his student Canak must be serious or fenced from him. This way, gentlemen, it's not working. We do not have gas in Serbia today because gentlemen, headed by Pajtic, Professor Petrovic, who runs the Vojvodina Capital Fund, spent money on an election campaign. It is true -- votes were bought, which were not done there, and it is well known in Serbia. Otherwise, they have to come to their senses and they have to come back here with information -- where the money is spent, how and in what way? I can't withdraw all the funds. Here, now they've taken 90 percent of NIS from NIS, gentlemen, they've taken 90 percent from NIS sales. The question is, what's 90 percent going to spend on? It is 360m euros, and they want us to raise the loans and give them, and they did not want to participate in the Horgos-Požega concession, which would speed up and increase traffic across Serbia and lead Central Europe to maritime routes, i.e. to the port of Bar. Therefore, they fully emerge from the concept of Serbia's traffic development strategy and create some concept that is completely independent of the one adopted here in parliament. They've completely torn off the Serbian parliament and as our people say -- they're not cutting for anything, just give us the money and give us the credits, and we're just doing it, we're sending it and we're deposing it there. Therefore, the accounts here must be deposited in this parliament, and Mr. Tadic, control Pitiæ if you have the strength and the strength of his comrades. If you don't, tell me what it's about. Now go to the citizens of Serbia and say -- we cannot resolve the issue of gas in Serbia. It's a shame we can't solve the equipment, get the pumps and turn on the warehouse we have and turn it into the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12378	Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12379	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to get back to the point. I remind you, we have concluded an oil company sale contract, and we have not concluded a contract on the construction of South Stream and have not concluded a contract for the reconstruction of Banatski Dvor. Therefore, the bottom line is that as a mediator, we paid 30m euros to Jugorosgas, and Gazprom, from which we buy gas, undertakes to regularly deliver gas that he has collected in the meantime. Although that gas has accumulated over 60%, although citizens have a great burden as far as their home budgets are concerned, even though we still have an intermediary, Jugorosgas, right, which is why I don't know why it figures except to take that money, we've come into a situation that we don't have enough gas at minus 20, or we don't have it at all. What does that mean? This means that households are frozen without industry suffering and not working. I remind you that the Vojvodina in 90% has been gassed, therefore the greatest gas shortage burden lies with the Vojvodina. So that's the bottom line, it's the center of the whole problem -- that despite Serbia's doing everything it's asked of it, and it's asked to sell its oil industry for a small price, sell the gold action, and not get anything concrete, and not solve the gas supply and storage problem. Once again, I remind you that only Serbia has committed its oil company to some possible future of South Stream, which is quite uncertain. Therefore, we do not need to talk much, we should just focus on the problem and still work a little bit on making Serbian citizens, especially the citizens of Vojvodina most affected by this problem, have enough gas, especially during the winter period.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12380	Mr. Velimir Ilic. It's like a replica, isn't it? Yes, please, you have three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12381	I don't understand Mrs. MP, the vice president of the Serbian Parliament, who's already been talking about the same thing twice, and we're reminding her here what's going on. If Serbian President addressed Serbian citizens and Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Dacic, and said the contract consists of three segments, I remembered it well, and one segment is sales, the other is South Stream and the third is Banatski Dvor. So that's the whole package we're talking about. The South Stream must be built. However, it is true that the citizens of Vojvodina suffer the most and the citizens of Serbia, and my Chacans are heating up on gas, both Kragujevs, and Nišli, and we all suffer in turn, but I repeat, the funds intended for the first phase of the Banat Castle were transferred to the Vojvodina Executive Council to complete the investment. Pajtic asked that all capital investment in Vojvodina be done via the capital funds of their fund. They took the money, transferred the job, didn't finish. While the government of the Republic of Serbia was making an investment, Minister Popovic finished the first part, repaired the warehouse, stored it. This is only phase one, and the warehouse needs to expand significantly in phase two. The machine part was not done, because the funds were transferred to the Vojvodina and unintendedly spent, and the investment was not completed. The address for why there is no gas today is Mr. Pitiæ and his associates. Address, if there are floods in the spring - Mr. Pajtic and his associates. Channeles that have not been cleaned, funds transferred - Mr. Pitiæ. Not today, it's Boris's birthday, so there's no point in criticizing everything today, is there, Mr. Minister, we should congratulate the president's birthday party, but let him call Pitiæ today when he sees them on his birthday, so let's clear it up with him. Therefore, the situation is quite clear. An investment for which privatisation funds were allocated and transferred, spent unintendedly on a campaign conducted on the territory of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12382	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12383	Article 4 Rules of Procedure. I wanted to look back on what Mr. Maras and Mrs. Popovic spoke about in previous exhibitions and reports in the Rules of Procedure. So it's obvious this is where they wanted to drive out the rabbit, and they're going to drive out the wolf. We have now heard from Mr Velimir Ilic that the money is intended for the reconstruction of the Banat Court was transferred to Vojvodina and spent on something else. It seems to me that the matter has already been transferred and the ball transferred to the finance ministry to check where the money is. It's not that money's not invested, it's that money's been spent on purpose. That's one thing. Secondly, to speak demagogue here as Vojvodina freezes, Serbia freezes, because nothing was done in time, and there is no alternative for a contract that was made in 2005 and 2006 on the construction of the South of that is completely pointless. There may be a better project, a better alternative, but at this point Serbia is boxing to get the South Stream pipeline route to have energy stability and security in the coming period. There is no better evidence in favour of the South than the situation currently in place in Europe, the blockade of Russian gas by Ukraine and the problem of supplying Europe as a whole. As a result, Russia has just planned a South Stream project to avoid any problems with transiting gas through uncertain countries, which are unfortunately controlled by some other countries and other powerful forces that want to interfere with security in Europe. There's the whole point. Why did Serbia find itself here? You wouldn't have found yourself if it wasn't for the good lobbying and the package that's being talked about here. Serbia is not on the shortest route to the South Stream pipeline. Unfortunately not, it's too south. The main flow of the South Stream pipeline would pass through Bulgaria, through Hungary and go to Western Europe, would not affect Serbia. In this, previous governments of Vojislav Kostunica managed to fight the pipeline through Serbia, and this is our offer of security of energy supply to Serbia and other parts of the former Yugoslavia and as a transit pipeline, and as an energy factor in the region. If there's anything better than that, go ahead, say it, we'll say yes, that's better, we support it. At this point, it's what we have. If there is a better alternative, if Nabucco exists, if there is any other project that is more profitable for Serbia and better, we will support it. Don't cloud the essence, the bottom line is this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12384	An amendment to which a new Article 18a is added after Article 18a. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Faith of the Rade. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is for Mrs. Vervain Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12385	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the proposal for a law on property taxes and all these laws as presented in the media as budgetary laws, and of course not, it is necessary to remember what we MPs of the SRS were saying at the time when the draft budget law and amendments to that law were discussed. We were reminded that the adoption of a budget law without these accompanying laws is quite pointless, because actually if you don't have laws that fill the budget, then even the existence of a budget as such doesn't have any particular purpose. Of course, what we were saying at the time was not taken and taken seriously, but after New Year's, the full media was exactly like that title and such texts. Today, for two or three days now, we have on the agenda such laws and to start a little bit from the last member, that is Article 26, which says that this law takes effect 8 days from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The first proposal, which went with the budget, envisioned that the law would enter into force on 30 December 2008, because if it did not, the world would end. It has not happened, and we should have a competent minister here, who is able to communicate with the MPs on this subject and explain to us what happened because this law did not come into force when it was foreseen in his previous text. The next backwards Article 25 says the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 3. 4, 16 and 17 of this law have been applied since 1 January 2009. Now here, it would be good to include at least the lawyers from the ruling majority in parliament in this debate, so that as experts we can discuss the retroactive application of Article 25, which actually implies the retroactive application of six members of this law. Of course, retroactivity in some exceptional cases is possible with a certain explanation and indeed when it has a purpose. What is provided for in Article 25 literally has no purpose at all. In fact, it can't be applied, and now, first of all, for the sake of the public, I'm going to remind you of what some of these members are predicting, to prove to you that this Article 25 is completely inapplicable. Of course, all of this has very close ties to the amendment that I have submitted, which refers to the addition of a new member, because that article 18a. It could have been 25a, because we propose to introduce something that you didn't predict, which is certainly necessary in order for both this law and some laws to be passed previously. What did you say in your reasons for passing this law by emergency procedure? You say - the law, among other things, regulates and excludes charters from values and shares in the legal person from the tax on inheritance, gift and tax on the transfer of absolute rights. I am reading this to remind you of what my colleague Krasic reminded you yesterday, that we, Serbian radicals, have been back for years every time the budget for the following year and, following the laws in the budget, insisted on this and, thank God, that at least with a delay of several years you have accepted these proposals so far expressed through amendments. You're still saying that not passing an emergency law could have adverse consequences on the capital market, and thus also on the work of the authorities and organisations. The question to which would be necessary to give us the answer of the finance minister is precisely - what happens because the law was not passed, because this was attributed by that law that was on the agenda at the end of 2008, and what happened because the law was not adopted by an emergency procedure, because this is very seriously foreseen to have adverse consequences on the capital market, and thus to the work of the authorities and organisations? The question for Mrs Diana Dragutinovic is - did these harmful consequences occur on the capital market, because the law was not passed, and thus the work of the authorities and organisations? If the consequences have occurred, let us first see what the consequences are, and then who is responsible for the consequences. Either you were joking, or you wanted to scare the MPs, to bring these laws back and forth, so they wouldn't be responsible for what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for. I will only comment on two members, Art. 2nd and 5th, compared to this retroactivity I was talking about, which refers to Article 25. It's a bill of law. If someone is able, whether you, Mr. Dulic, or the resolution minister at least later, to explain to me how this is legal first, I am sorry that my colleague, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Vlatko Ratkovic is not here, because he often determines, or makes decisions together with the parliamentary majority, that he refuses any amendments for this or that reason, why he has not responded to this Article 25. The bill, why didn't he look and why didn't all fellow lawyers look and draw attention to the government of the Republic of Serbia at least these two members? You say in Article 1 relating to Article 2 of the basic law that the property tax is paid on the next fixed property rights, so you erased the right to pruning, the right to housing, you just deleted the right to use, the right to time-use "time shearing", as it stands in brackets. If this applies from 1 January, if today is January 15th, if this will be adopted on 20th and some January, which is then the purpose of this article 25, as well as other members, shall not take effect on the 8th day of its publication in the Official Messenger. Even more drastic is an example of Article 5, and Article 5 is actually Article 2 refers to Article 5 of the Basic Law. Mr. Ilic, I assume that you are the expert who did this at the Ministry of Finance, and Article 5 paragraph 2 says - the level of the market value of the immovableity determines the competent tax authority, you deleted it, so instead you put the local self-government unit authority in charge of determining, charging and controlling the original incomes of the local self-government unit, in the following text, the body of the local self-government unit. This is also a link to my amendment, and this is okay with what is in this law, but the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then the local self-governments that have to act in accordance with the law - what happened, who determined the level of the market value of the immovableity from January 1st to today or until the day when the law would be established? If it was done by the tax authority, which is now the body of the unit of local self-government, then it worked illegally because this law did not enter into force until 1 January 2009. Am I right, Mr. Ilic? I did. You can't enter order formulas into the law for the purpose of satisfying the form. You had to say what was actually a state of mind. You've been late with this law, as you've been late with the budget, we're late with the application of these laws, and there's no need for a member of the 25th to exist this way. Speaking of local self-government authorities, which determine the level of the market value of immovableity under this law, we proposed that after Article 18. The draft law, and in Article 36a, shall, after Article 1(1), add Article 2, which states that, on the request of a unit of local self-government, the administration shall provide data relating to immovableities and other available data of importance for the determination of property tax within 15 days of the date of receipt of the request. We said in an explanation, the position of the SRS is that on the basis of the tax department's initiatives on the ground, my colleagues spoke of it both yesterday and today, local self-government should be given the opportunity to determine for themselves the price of the average square meter, which would be natural, because now it's local income. There's really nothing more natural, there's nothing more healthy than this. If local self-government is doing this job, if this is their income, why would someone at the level of the Republic of Serbia deal with it and on the basis of which parameters will you determine this data? I guess based on what you're going to do, you're going to look for information from local self-government. Completely unnecessary State interference in local self-government, completely unnecessary in this part. It has nothing to do with decentralisation, on the contrary, you keep swearing to decentralisation, but you have to show it. If you don't accept this amendment, first of all you make this job very complicated, you'll agree with it, and you'll put local self-governments in a situation that they can't even determine their incomes again, they have as much of them as you do and as much as you give them. That's not a good solution. You gave me, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the answer here that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the regulation of the transfer of competences for the identification, collection and control of the original income of local self-government units and in this respect the provision of available data from the old tax administration to units of local self-government for the exercise of delegated powers does not comply with a law governing the taxation of property. It would be good for you to tell us what law is in place, in which law have you entered this provision, which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, have I proposed to enter into this law? As a lawyer, I'm telling you that this member is the place in this law. You didn't say in your explanation that this isn't a good amendment and you don't have any opinion contrary to what's in the amendment. It could just be some sort of whim of yours, we're not exactly going to accept the amendment of some SRS MP, so we're going to be dealing with some changes and additions to some third law here again. We will talk about this again for five days and the opposition MPs will again be responsible because they participate in the work of parliament, or media will be responsible, and we know that we are not, because we are here to participate in Parliament's work. I suggest you, my time for the amendment is up, just one more sentence, gentlemen of the Ministry and you, Mr. Dulic, that you suggest that your colleague accept this amendment and you fellow Members of the assembly majority to vote for it, because neither the Government has said that this is a good amendment, but it is looking for another place, perhaps in this law of yours, Mr. Dulic, that you read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12386	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Stevanović wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19, and you will allow me, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, just a minute or two, from my time in the amendment, to use something I started before the end of 2008, and that seems to me to have mentioned to the government representatives one question in the Bujanovac municipality the last day of the meeting. In fact, there local authorities, held by the Shipari, intend to take over the two remaining directors of public enterprises. At that time, the political parties of Serbs in Bujanovac reached a consensus and in a politically appropriate manner interrupted the assembly session. The session was postponed for January, about that time I said about January 15th. I am obliged to inform the public, representatives of the government and your MPs that the session took place yesterday and yesterday the local assembly in Bujanovac replaced the remaining two directors of public enterprises, Serbs, in the city. Again due to the problem, as defined by all political parties, representing Serbs in the city, a consensus has been reached and all political parties have left the assembly session. As further determined, I suppose there will be a position of agreement, but they will certainly no longer participate in the work of the local parliament. That is why, and also because of the fact that in the coming year, we need one political and, above all, any other stability, I would appeal to you who represent the Government to use the mechanisms that as state and government you have, to be interested in the political interests of Serbs who have reached a consensus below, to react and to determine in this sense to Serbs just as you are in one adequate and good way to treat minorities living in Vojvodina and all other parts of Serbia. That's one thing. Another thing I think is very important, and you should be told, Serbs have become an artificial minority in the Bujanovac municipality. It is not appropriate now to open the question of when and how because of the political unity they have achieved below, so I ask you once again and I insist that you react down to meet the interests of Serbs. As regards this amendment, I have submitted an amendment which is, in principle, of a technical nature, that certified contracts are sent to the competent tax authorities within 10 days, or within 15 days from diplomatic and consular representations. In its explanation, the government said, among other things, the following - diplomatic-consular representations have an obligation to provide the competent tax authority with a copy of the contract on which they have carried out over the signature of the contractors within the same time limit as they are obliged to deliver other authorities. These other authorities are the authorities in Serbia. It's the courts. In addition, this deadline is estimated to be appropriate, given the modern means of communication and data exchange. If the government has determined that the deadline for the delivery of these contracts in Serbia has been 10 days, some criteria are likely to have been followed. It's impossible for a piece of paper from a court to arrive in one of those same cities, as it will come from a consular office from any other state, like Australia or China, no matter where. It is not common for the authorities of the court, municipal authorities or other republican authorities to be in the same building as local self-government. Of course, the SRS considers that these bodies should not only be administratively, but politically, even physically separate from each other, but if you have defined that these authorities have 10 days to deliver this to the competent authorities or tax authorities, or local self-government units, then you could objectively accept that the deadline for diplomatic and consular representations is longer than 10, i.e. to be, as I predicted, 15 days. If you're aware of modern technologies and means of communication, you could cut that deadline to five days, so that this would be appropriate, for diplomatic and consular representations to be 10 days. That's another proof of how much access this law on your part was superficial. He was superficial, that's what I said in the principle debate, just because this is the income of local self-government. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not interested in these revenues because they are the revenues of local self-government. It's causing a lot of problems. It's not just a technical problem to enforce this law. There are many other problems and circumstances. I'm going to talk about some of them right now and mention them, which are objectively posed as a problem that the state has not only not arranged in the past eight years, it has not dealt with at all. One more thing that will point to the surface of access to this, look at what you wrote in your explanation for this law. The legislator first asks himself the question - why is law-making the best way to solve problems? Then they say, "Adjudging the law is the best way to solve problems for reasons of legal matter that can only be changed and complemented by appropriate amendments and additions to the law." What did the writer mean? It's better not to read, rather to read. It's superficial and unfortunately lame. The first problem we will face, when the law, or property tax, is how many citizens will be solvable next year, how many of them will be able to pay this tax. I'm asking you, Mr. Ilic, you're here, are these gonna be able to pay for the Synthelon workers from Backa Palanca, workers of the former Belgrade Stock Houses, Beka, the Trustee? Mrs. Dragutinovic says we should expect a million unemployed next year. How and from what means will these people pay the property tax? Or, of course, as the law gives for the right, we'll go into forced payment? What are we going to take for them: three 20-30-year-olds, two-seats, refrigerators, TVs, etc. That's the first problem we're going to face when it comes to property tax and going to the burden of local self-government. Now comes a question that was raised by Mrs. Radet, which is the problem of fiscal centralised. The state has never been more centralised when it comes to funding since 2000, so here we go, and your mouth is full of decentralisation. Every one of you sitting behind you and having experience in functioning local self-government knows it very well and is very well as a responsible civil servant at a local level felt on his back. There have been initiatives and conversations, you have called on the presidents of the municipalities, and you have been suggested a hundred times what is not good and what problems we face. You're all deaf, unfortunately. Because you're in high politics. And that's not only contrary to the decentralisation that you're talking about and that you're defending, but also to the principle of polycystry. Also, one of the basic principles when it comes to development and Serbia, and the region, and Europe and the whole modern world. You don't care about all that. What else does local self-government face? I mentioned here a few days ago, there is a law, namely the Law on the financing of local self-government, which provides that part of the funds that are collected based on the use of natural resources from the municipality's territory go to the local self-government unit. The government has passed the regulation, focusing on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government that has resources, which are well used and well cashed, cannot use a dinar of these funds. I urge you to ask that the regulation be put out of effect. You know why? Mr Krasic mentioned something yesterday that the state should maintain control of this, to say, financial functioning and behaviour of local self-government. I agree, every freedom, I've said it once before, which has no limit to becoming anarchy. But, you see, by your regulation, deny the municipality for serious income. In particular, if I don't move on, I'm going to set an example from my municipality, on the territory of the municipality of Surdulica is doing "Cola" and "Vlasin" hydroelectrics. Both use water, one as an energy potential, and the other as a commercial resource as a potential. The dinar one of the use of these good municipalities doesn't have any. Then what the local self-government thinks, not only of which I come from, but across Serbia, everyone here knows it. Then they opted to raise their original, local taxes, or local taxes and companies to heaven. You know, when local self-government is involved in funding local self-government, political consensus at local level always lies. And for companies that are the original incomes of local self-government, which such producers and such profits should be placed on their necks, the consensus is always found and are always high. Those who profit from these resources make a lot of money, and they don't mind paying, paying and silenceing everyone else. It's something that you're neglecting, that you're turning your head out of it, objectively everyone who comes here like, say, former or current local officials don't have a talker in the government to get rid of these things. Eight years without a talker in the government, that's the problem. If you did that, everything would be different, and everything would be easier, first to the government in Belgrade, and then to all of us in Serbia. What else is the problem? Mr. Dulic isn't here. The problem will be that Serbia in two-thirds of municipalities does not have an orderly catastre. That's one of the problems. You've been talking about European standards for eight years. If you're abstracting The Hague and everything that you're asked of in Brussels, when you start talking about normal things, about things that objectively qualify you and define you as compatible with the European Union, these are planning documentation and an immobility cadastre. How does a state that doesn't have a catastreal mobility have an insight into property? What's hers and what's private? On what basis will the amount be determined and what should be charged as a property tax? You promise this only in 2010, and in 2010 tax collection on this basis will also be a problem and we will be squirming about it. Not to mention the Property Directorate. The Property Directorate, so there's no worse and more inefficient state body than the Property Directorate, no. They have items that stand for several years, for which they will not be allowed to reject the one who sent the request or ask for a favor from them, let alone a positive solution, to increase the property of the Serbian state or to enable those who are interested to gain, to expand their assets, so that we can charge all of this and to live and function normally and as humans based on these incomes. You, unfortunately, sell fog, sell fiction, talk about Europe, European standards, and all that comes down to a mere story, to a haze, to something objectively abstract, is not in any way tangible. There are many problems, there are many things that are objectively needed and can be opened on this matter. Also, I think there's another matter of technical nature, and that's what I'm going to end up with, which I'd like to suggest to you. Unfortunately, I didn't make it, I was late, and I thought that some amendment had to be submitted, but I think you're here, in this article, I think it's Article 37, that you should assume that the authorities in charge of the contract signing over, in addition to being obliged to send the documents certified to tax authorities, that they also send it to local self-government units. So he's sending them? This is good because it will allow easy updating and a serious and responsible approach to data-based processing, which will again show how much revenue has been achieved, whether everything is covered and what we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12388	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the proposing representatives want to give the final word? I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. In voting day, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments, Jovan Palalić, Arsen Đurić, Milos Radulović, Aleksandar Pejčić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Momir Marković, Srboljub Živanovic, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petković, Nenad Popović, Miroslav Markicevic, Zoran Krasić, Donka Banović, Milutin Jelić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Dejan Mirović, Zlata Đerić, together Milica Vojić-Marković and Zoran Šami, Đorđe Milić, Branko Ružić, Aleksandar Martinović, Dusan Bajatović and Zoran Ksalović. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Radeta has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12389	Madam President of the National Assembly, you have just shown how pointless it is to have some on-call ministers here, of course, and they can and should be here, but it is necessary to be a resolute competent minister here, it is the finance minister, so that we can normally discuss the proposals of these laws regarding budgeting. You have just, according to the pre-prepared synopsis, read whether the proposing's representative wants a final word, to say something, and you know for yourself that even here, even if Mr. Dulic is in the O.R., he can't speak, unfortunately, but he can't speak in the right way about the proposals of these laws and all the amendments that we've talked about under that previous law. Why is it still necessary for Mrs Diana Dragutinovic to be here? Because, and I'm afraid that's exactly why she's not here, I want to because of the MPs, and because of the public and because of everything that we MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have been saying and doing the last days of this previous year, and Mrs Dragutinovic, we have asked more questions and received certain promises from her, but here's the 15th day in this 2009 we have no answer from the Ministry now I want to initiate it once more and, since all the allowed and usual time has passed to answer these questions, I insist that Mrs Dragutinovic has been hurried in response to our questions. First of all, Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic told us here at the end of last year, I think it was the last working day, when I asked her what was going on with the budget inspection she promised to send to Belgrade Airport, and about the operation of the airport, about possible abuses by Bojan Krishta, and yet all about what we talked about here for several days, when even representatives of the ruling coalition said that they really needed to be examined and to be clear with it once. Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, said two days before the end of work last year that the budgetary inspection at the airport would finish its job on 31 December 2008. Since it has already been two weeks since, of course, it has been the obligation of the Ministry to deliver these information to the MPs, but since there is nothing, we insist, while the debate on these drafts of the law is ongoing, we expect Diana Dragutinovic to be the duty minister for one day, so he may come by here, until then, to prepare us for this response. Also, Mrs Dragutinovic said that the Ministry of the Army will be sent to a budget inspection, and related to what we have initiated in connection with Ponos, with his statements, with the operations of the ministry, Resord Minister Dragan Sutanovac, who also said in the media that he wants the financial inspection to examine his ministry's business. You know, you can't act so irresponsiblely and irresponsiblely, you say, your newspaper publishes it, and you think it's done. No, we don't forget what we started and we'll keep insisting on all that data. So, ma'am, tell Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic to hurry up with that. I also had one question for Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, in fact, I asked her about the budget maybe on December 27th or 28th, I asked her to answer the question immediately, because she had to know the answer, and yesterday the "Kurir" launched this topic, which we were already talking about, and I asked Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, and now I ask her, and the President of the Government and the President of the Republic: what budget items are, if, the estimated funds of a million and 250 000 euros, plus the payment of taxes, because we later found out in the paper, which concerns the payment of any "sincaros" that would tell someone from the authorities where Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic were located? Of course, I hope so, too, and we are convinced that this payment will never come, but we need to know, the citizens of Serbia need to know, because it is the money of the citizens of Serbia, which you are putting into the budget through all these laws. Serbian citizens, certainly, are not ready to single out their money for "sniffing" someone who would have thought of some money, as someone thought of betraying Radovan Karadzic for big money, there is probably someone else who would be willing to do so, even when it comes to Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic. We want to know where that money is intended or, what is the most logical conclusion, you plan on from those five million, which you would get from that American-proclaimed prize, to set out that million and 250 thousand plus taxes, and then you ask who would take the rest of those money, who took the five million euros that were blackmailed by Radovan Karadzic's head and who took, long ago, another five million dollars to be blackmailed by Slobodan Milosevic's head? So these are questions that, gentlemen of the congregation majority, will follow you as long as you are a congregation majority, and when you do not, if we do not get answers to all these questions by then, we will certainly find those answers ourselves. So, please, Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, when she is on duty, will you stop by the Assembly to discuss these issues. Good news to you yesterday, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, how easily do you allocate funds for "sniggers", for Serbian headhunters, don't you think it might occur to you to once single out a dinar, with which most of those who fill Serbia's budget, which are Serbian citizens, would certainly agree, for those who have committed a crime against Serbs? Of course, that's a little bit of an interest to you, or it's almost out of interest. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, we would again need Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, to see if she was joking or seriously thinking when she said that, in addition to increasing excise duties, the state intends to complement the budget and increase the VAT. Some of the ministers, also through the media, said it wasn't true, but if the resolution minister says so, then it must be taken seriously and we took it seriously. We want Mrs Dragutinovic to show up and tell us whether we in Serbia are going to do something that no country in the world is doing right now, at a time of economic crisis, to increase VAT, that even more to citizens, who are already in real need, and especially in a great fear of what is threatening us and what is in the near future, is it possible that the state will stick around and increase VAT, which would produce the accumulation of all products and, ultimately, bring everything to that end consumer, the ordinary citizen of the Serbian state. We warn you in time not to play with this people and that the government must think about solving this problem and remind ourselves of what Djelic said in time, that the great economic crisis in the world will actually come to Serbia, that all foreign investors will rush into Serbia. He never explained why. I was reminded the other night on a television show, they directly conveyed a reminder, Boris Tadic also said, with such a smile on his face, it's kind of nice that this crisis is happening in the world, because it can't touch Serbia at all. Gentlemen of power, you should answer all these questions about how this happened in Serbia, if the president of the state and one of the vice-presidents of the government convinced us that this could not happen in Serbia, that no one alive could believe or believe. You cannot give and express such attitudes and such statements lightly. In the reasons for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure, you say, the adoption of an emergency procedure law is necessary, given that the effects of the proposed amendments and additions to this law have been incorporated into the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. This is true. The question we didn't get an answer to, who's responsible for why we didn't discuss both the Budget Law and these accompanying laws within the time limit? Why didn't we finish this job by December 15th? Why was the Government of the Republic of Serbia 40 days late with proposals from these laws? Who's responsible for that? You further say you from the Government, the adoption of amending and supplementing laws on excise duties under emergency procedure would have adverse consequences for the achievement of budgetary revenues, and thus also for the work of bodies and organisations. Either you copy from somewhere, so put this sentence in every law, or this is really true. Whatever it is, it's irresponsible and it's not serious. If you're cheating, it's not good. If this is true, which seems to be possible, then again we ask the question, and we ask the question, who is responsible and, first of all, which are the adverse consequences of the achievement of the budget revenues, which have caused the adverse consequences of the work of the authorities and organisations, and of course, who is responsible for these consequences. Or there are no consequences, and then you lie to the MPs and citizens of Serbia that we need these laws through this. You did not accept the amendment I submitted to Article 1. The draft law, according to the Government, does not accept the amendment for the reason that the proposed member does not increase the amount of excise duties, but only to specify the existing concepts in the Excise Act. This European practice of putting in all the laws a provision that explains what the concept of the law means is something completely imbecileal, but well, it's not a topic when it comes to this law. My amendment, as well as the amendments to the other SRS MPs, speak of ours, and I will finish in a few seconds, after the time has passed, talking about the position of the SRS when it comes to increasing excise duties. You must not increase excise duties on fuel or on any of the other products you have predicted here, because it will withdraw the collection of all the supplies, all the goods of general consumption, all the services. You know it's always like that. You don't care, you'll try this way to fill the budget out of citizens' pockets... (President: Time. ) that these funds are just walking through the budget for budget users, and citizens of which, as a whole, do not benefit from this pest government at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12390	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Arsen Đuric, Milos Radulović and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment of MPs Jovan Palalic, Arsen Djuric and Milos Radulovic. The Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12391	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, which provides for an increase in excise duties on oil products. When there is an increase in excise duty on oil derivatives, there is inevitable accumulation of oil derivatives, which causes chain reaction and collection of a series of products in Serbia, which in the conditions of the crisis in which we are now located is a direct blow to citizens' standards. This is certainly the kind of decision that does not contribute in any way to the resolution of the consequences of this economic crisis that is slowly affecting both Serbia and whose culmination will take place during 2009. Before we even comment on this amendment, it is necessary to say what is the basic motive of the legislator to put one norm into the bill. Several times during the autumn part of the session, we discussed the damagingness of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to unilaterally implement the Transitional Trade Agreement. It is a purely political decision, completely unclear from the point of view of a responsible policy to be led by the government of the Republic of Serbia, in a situation where it is trying to build a partnership with the EU, which is deeply marred by recognition by a large number of EU states of self-proclaimed independence. This has led to major political turbulence in Serbia, when it comes to the justification of signing the SAA, and in particular the fact that the same EU has decided that, by setting a series of conditions for Serbia, the highest requirement for co-operation with The Hague tribunal does not want to begin with the implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement. In this situation, one decision is made, which is absolutely amazing, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not to analyse the previous economic effects, the economic effects of such a decision on the economy and the economy of Serbia, trying for very unclear reasons to do or send a message to the EU that it is leading the policy aimed at joining the EU, makes a decision on the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement, which, as we have seen in the debate on the budget and during the discussion of the government's non-trust, has a direct consequence of losses in the revenue side of the budget, and, indirectly, is 300m euros. Because of a number of other things that have affected the budget as it is, and we think very badly, the government is trying to impose additional pressure on citizens to solve this problem so-called. budgeting this year. Then we get into trouble, it's proposing an increase in excise duties on oil derivatives. I just want to point out that we were faced in the autumn with a series of very strange non-systematic, partial, ad hoc messages and the measure that the government has adopted a programme and plan to address the adverse consequences of the economic crisis. Immediately after the new year, we get statements from the government's top representatives that the plan is missing, that the government has no measure and has yet to go public with Serbia with measures to define its policy of responding to the economic crisis. We have repeatedly pointed out here during the autumn session that there is a need for direct, permanent and firm dialogue between the government and the National Assembly, between all political representatives in Serbia, between the government and representatives of the economy and various other professional associations. But apart from the declarative statements that such a dialogue would take place, we remained deprived of a serious and deep debate about what kind of year it should be in 2009. We are in a situation where the government is making a bad budget, making a bad political decision on the unilateral application of the SAA, causing a number of bad economic consequences across the whole range of branches in the Republic of Serbia, directly jeopardising citizens' standard of living, and then making such proposals, such as increasing excise duties on oil products, further fostering purchases and jeopardising citizens' living standards. The absence of a clear strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the response to the economic crisis only speaks of chaos and unpreparedness, and the absence and quality of human resources and even political potential within the government to give such an answer. Rare are governments in Europe and the world that welcomed January without any measure to respond to the economic crisis. The DSS came up with a proposal for measures it wanted to open up the public debate and encourage it to discuss it, but the government of the Republic of Serbia reacted to all serious initiatives with silence, whether it was just a lack of preparedness or whether it was about different interests, political conflicts or different statements about how the economic crisis should be answered, it is now a question that we will likely face very quickly when citizens feel it directly in their pocket. It is inadmissible late, and it is said by businesses in Serbia, that the government is only considering adopting such measures in January. We are in a situation where we have an increase in excise duties, an increase in interest rates, an announcement of an increase in VAT, which is not working anywhere in the world at this time by any serious and responsible government. And then we wonder why the citizens are in great concern and why the citizens are on the verge of panic, because they have no conviction, no conviction by the responsible people in this country who rule that this situation will be remedied or at least tempered. Of course, different messages, from not living up to the fact that we will not be naked, barefoot and hungry, to the fact that this year will only be stopped possible layoffs, which is a completely unrealistic policy, and that no more serious investment and development programme in Serbia will be, further harassing citizens and certainly bringing anxiety into many families in Serbia. The aim of this amendment is to remove such a proposal as an increase in excise duty absolutely, it is an introduction to mass gatherings that we will face very quickly. Indeed, it is necessary that the National Assembly, through a discussion of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Act on Excises, indicate this to the citizens of Serbia, that an increase in the excise duty on oil products, although it is a ridiculous and completely incredible argument of the Government, does not necessarily need to be done, although we all know it is absolutely necessary, and that this depends, as it is said in the explanation of the rejection of the amendments, on the price policy of economic operators. It is indeed an explanation that no one who is seriously involved in politics in Serbia can accept. It's just an explanation to write some explanation, but of course no MP in the National Assembly can convince. The absence of a clear policy of response to the economic crisis, the increase in excise duties and thus a series of basic consumer prices and basic needs of citizens, a high interest policy that makes business difficult in Serbia, are only evidence that this government does not have an answer to what is being prepared for 2009, but has no vision of how and in any way to get ahead of this people and convince them not to be hungry, naked, bare, bare, but to have a fundamental opportunity to do anything about it. And that's why this government has to leave as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12392	The word is Mr Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12393	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am sorry that I have no one to welcome here from the government's representative, no minister is present and this shows in the worst way how they deal with these very important laws that essentially create the life of all Serbian citizens in 2009. Only the delegation and presence of individual ministers here when we had a debate that is still under way, which concerns a very important set of laws that essentially determine the Budget Act itself, shows what kind of relationship to the budget itself and how much the government itself believes in this budget, as well as the ruling majority. The DSS has repeatedly pointed to the danger of the upcoming economic crisis. Immediately with the first signals early in the flight, the DSS came up with a proposal for certain measures to prevent or reduce the impact of the crisis. However, on the draft law that we have issued here and with which we have come to this assembly and to the citizens of the Committee on Finance itself, Mr. Secretary of State Ilic, who is not present here, accused the DSS of spreading panic and of committing defetism, which in some way points to me whether or not Mr. Ilic is ill-intentioned or not competent to adequately respond, i.e. to see everything that could pose a danger to filling the budget and, I repeat, for something that creates the lives of citizens in 2009. I'll remind you that the DSS has come out with a whole set of draft laws and we expected there to be more hearing in the ruling coalition that these laws are being taken into consideration here, and to be honest, and I believed that these laws can be done here, thanks to both the congregation's majority and the opposition, and to adopt. I repeat once again, we are all MPs here, representatives of the citizens, and all of us, above all, should work in the interests of the citizens themselves. We came up with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank on 13.11.2008, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax on 6 November, the Proposal for a Decision on the Education of the Commission on the Monitoring of the World Economic Crisis, as each serious country has just formed one such committee, which would best consider the consequences of the economic crisis and give proposals, i.e. the best solutions to prevent the negative effects of the crisis. We gave the Bill on Deposit Insurance on 8 October 2008 and then we had this famous session of the Finance Committee, where Mr Ilic accused the DSS of spreading panic and defetism among Serbian citizens. As for the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises, the DSS and DSS MPs have given a number of amendments, for the simple reason that we believe that any increase in excise duties at this time poses one major danger to all citizens of Serbia. In particular, I've given an amendment to Article 3 that defines increasing excise duties on motor gasoline from 27.50 to 42 dinars, to diesel from 16.66 to 26 dinars and to liquid motor gas for motor vehicles from 10 dinars to 13 dinars. We find this absolutely unnecessary, and it represents one big blow to the pocket of all citizens, especially if you take the gas price structure, where you see that excises represent a large part of the price of gasoline itself, and with this increase in excise duties that amount would exceed 50% of the price of gasoline. It is the largest amount not only in the environment, but also in Europe. This represents, if you look at all segments of society, a major blow to the standard of living of all citizens of Serbia, because these 14 billion dinars that are projected in this way are essentially a small price for everything pyramidal, so to speak, resulting in an increase in price, because this would affect prices not only of gasoline, but of less or less of the price of all products. The essence of why it has even been approached to increase these excise duties is precisely the unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, i.e. the Transition Trade Agreement, because it is in some way necessary to replace a hole in the budget around the projected 20 billion, which is essentially somewhere, as DSS experts have calculated, about 350m euros. The unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is something only Serbia wants to do, or apply, because there is no other country that has joined the process of joining the European Union and has unilaterally applied some of the specifics and some of the obligations of the accession. This essentially has inconceivable consequences for the citizens of Serbia, because above all it affects those products which are released from customs and which are essentially mostly represented in a range of products that Serbia primarily exports, I mean agricultural products. I remind you that only in 2008 did Serbia have a surplus of 450,000 euros in agricultural products and that it is one of the few branches where Serbia has a positive external trade balance. This is also a terrible reflection on a large number of citizens, when I say citizens, above all I think of agricultural producers, because a large number of Serbian citizens are primarily targeted and depended solely on agricultural production. In this way, their existence will be threatened, and it is quite the opposite of what this government stands for, and this is the social responsibility of the government, because it will lead to unfair competition, resulting in an uncontrollable inflow of agricultural products from Europe, which will greatly affect the business environment and the behaviour of agricultural producers in Serbia itself. In essence, what is the price and what is the reason why we are unnecessarily fulfilling all the conditions set before us by the European Union? This is, above all, a commitment that this government has made and must fulfil, which is an obligation towards the import lobby and some countries that have primarily affected the formation of this government, and the import lobby has found its great interest there, above all, in importing large quantities of these products uncontrollably, to destroy domestic production and thus create a large profit through large margins. They are not in the interest of state interest at all, first of all, of personal interest, of interest to wealth and to all of us, and first of all Serbian citizens, hostages are their policies, policies which the government is essentially obliged to implement. I will remind only of the defence of the dinar course, where over a billion and 400m euros have been spent, where foreign exchange reserves have been reduced from 10 billion to 8.4 billion euros, where most of these funds have been poured into the accounts of those people who have decided what this government will look like and which determine the policy of this government. The import lobby, I repeat once again, will achieve an even greater profit by eliminating competition through an increase in margins, and farmers and citizens of Serbia will not be able to endure this race. All this will be reflected on other citizens of Serbia, as they will not be able to cover the costs behind it, increase prices, increase inflation. When we talk about inflation growth, we should also mention the projected gross social product, which last year was 7%, for this year 3%. However, some government officials are already saying it will be 0.5% smaller, and some of the prominent experts and economists are already talking and taking the view that this growth of the gross social product cannot be greater than 0.7%. All of this is caused by an increase in unemployment. We've already met with expensive loans. On several occasions, I talked about expensive loans and how this reflects Serbia's economy. However, these loans are already reaching 26 in interest rates, with some banks up to 44%. There's obviously no economic operator who can handle it. We are in such a situation that we have one huge indifference of economic operators. According to official data, commitments between businesses are more than 823 billion dinars, which is more than the projected budget of the Republic of Serbia. We are also suggesting an increase in VAT and that will be another blow (President: Time. I end up with citizens of Serbia. While all countries and the EU, as well as the surrounding countries, are considering reducing the value added tax, the government is considering increasing VAT for the simple reason it should cover budget gaps. (President: Time. ) The government is incompetent, irresponsible and media blockades its poor results and incompetence and blames all right here on the MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia from opposition parties. The day will come that it will have to account for the citizens of Serbia. (President: Thank you, sir, speak a minute longer. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12394	According to Mr. Jovan Palalic's amendment, National MP Dr. Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, submitted by the MP, Mr. Jovan Palalic. The objective of the amendment submitted by Mr Palalic, in his explanation, has already pointed out, it is not to increase excise duties because the increase in excise duties will lead to an increase in numerous products, which will adversely affect the standard and the social situation of Serbian citizens at all. That is why I will read this amendment to Article 3. The bill, which was submitted by the People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, which reads, "Article 3 is deleted. "The Serbian government has stated -- the amendment is not accepted given that it is products that have unelastite demand, and that the proposed amounts of excise duty do not necessarily have to affect the growth of retail oil derivatives prices, whose height depends primarily on the price policy of economic operators, amounts of excise duties on oil derivatives proposed in the law, with conditions for the provision of excise income projected in the 2009 budget. Article 3 The Law amending and supplementing the Excise Act is proposed to increase the last harmonised amount of excise duty. I remind you that the previous harmonisation of excise duties was made in January 2008 on oil derivatives, from 35.91 dinar to 42.00 dinars per litre, diesel fuel from 19.10 dinars per litre to 26.00 dinars per litre and liquid oil gas from the current 11,01 dinar per kilogram to 13.00 dinar per kilogram. When we look at the structure of the price of gasoline in December 2008, in Serbia the excise price is 44% of the retail price. If inflation increases in 2009, as expected, a new increase in excise duty on oil derivatives may be expected in the first quarter of 2009. In light of the draft law, the government of the Republic of Serbia cited the need to create conditions for further stabilising the oil derivative market, thus providing greater revenue from excise duties on oil derivatives in the republican budget. In the 2009 budget revenue structure, 640 billion dinars will be provided from excise and tax, and in the design of projected expenditures, the most funds, 233.7 billion dinars, are planned for transfers to mandatory social insurance organisations, and for subsidies of only 40.9 billion dinars. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I must stress that there is a link between the Law on Budgets and the proposed laws currently in the procedure, as well as the law we are discussing today. This law, like others in the process, is not following the laws of the budget, but material-legal regulations. The government of the Republic of Serbia made a mistake in order to propose legislation. The first was to propose this set of laws, which are now in the procedure and to be adopted by the National Assembly and then proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly a draft budget law, or the State's fiscal policy law. Unfortunately, the draft budget law arrived at the National Assembly with a late 40-day delay, showing the government of the Republic of Serbia a disagreement, irresponsibility and incompetence. As far as the Excise Law proposal is concerned, the SRS disagrees. The SRS, as a socially responsible party, believes that the non-acceptation of excise duties on non-luxury products but a basic civilizational means, under conditions of the global economic crisis affecting all citizens of Serbia independently of their material position, due to a illogical and unacceptable decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia to unilaterally, which is Serbia, applying a transitional trade agreement with the EU and thus leaving no significant income, had to find an exit to supplement these revenues to the budget. Thus, by increasing taxes, excise duties and taxes, the government of the Republic of Serbia will additionally burden the population of Serbia, all in its intention to finance an unwarranted decision on the unilateral application of the transitional agreement with the EU. Serbian citizens, due to the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement, will also pay a higher VAT on announcements from the ruling coalition. The only way out and solution for Serbian citizens is by giving up Serbia's government on the unilateral application of the harmful Transition Agreement, because in the current conditions of the economic crisis and social misery, it is also for the economy, for agriculture and for all citizens of Serbia, a difficult blow for every citizen's economic and financial budget. The increase in excise duties will result in new purchases of oil derivatives. Serbian citizens should know that they will pay more expensive oil derivatives, as the Serbian government must compensate for a reduction in customs revenues that is lost by unilateral application of a transitional trade agreement with the EU. The SRS won't accept and vote for such laws. That is why the SRS has submitted numerous amendments to these and the laws that are in the process, in order to protect both the state and the citizens of Serbia under conditions of the global economic crisis and the difficult social situation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and so far poverty has been one of Serbia's greatest fundamental problems. The most vulnerable groups are unemployed, then Roma, displaced, refugees, people with disabilities and women. Regional differences remain and are growing. Serbia is 23rd when it is studied among 118 countries in which the survey is conducted, which is worse than in Macedonia, Romania and Croatia. In central Serbia, the poorest population is 10.5%. In Vojvodina, 8.7% and in Belgrade 4.3%. In Serbia, about 10% of the population is on average at the border of existence. So, about 700,000 people live on the border of poverty and poverty, and of which 145,000 people get social assistance, and 550,000 people just once help and it's messy, as we've recently read, that the citizens of Belgrade didn't get that one-time aid before the New Year, which belonged to them according to all the laws. Every day, there are more unemployed people, layoffs have become everyday phenomena, and we can't even track the crowds anymore. The dinar continues to weaken toward faith. Serbian citizens are in fear of misery, poverty, hunger and hyperinflation. That is why, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, the SRS reiterates its dissatisfaction with the proposed law and has therefore submitted numerous amendments, which, as this one, I hope, will most seriously consider and accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12396	Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic, according to Mr. Radulovic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the amendment submitted by Mr Milos Radulovic to article 3, requesting the removal of this member. I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia should accept this amendment. The moment the government of the Republic of Serbia chose to increase excise duties on oil derivatives is not real at all. As for citizens who need to pay a higher retail price because of the increase in excise duty, the moment is never right. However, it is sometimes justified. There is now no reasonable reason to increase excise duties on oil derivatives in Serbia, as increasing excise duties is only a way to replace the funds that the state of Serbia is losing due to the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU. This is how Serbian citizens help the EU's economies, while our economy is in an increasingly poor state. The emerging situation in both Europe and the world, related to the economic and financial crisis, is nothing new for Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens have been living badly for years. Now that there is a crisis in Europe, Serbia should be the one that will affect the sale of products imported from the EU on our market at lower prices, as Serbia is denied parts of customs revenue on these products. A huge damage from the Serbian authorities' decision to unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU will have all citizens of Serbia as drivers who use oil derivatives for their cars. However, the greatest damage will be to those who use oil derivatives as inputs for their work. Among them will be farmers and carriers. The increase in the retail price of diesel fuel and petrol directly affects the increase in the price of agricultural products. Those who deal with agricultural production know that a lot of money is needed to invest in diesel fuel to process the land, because they can neither plow nor sow without diesel fuel. The conditions of disturbed climate factors require much more irrigation of agricultural cultures, and irrigation requires motor gasoline, whose price will now be higher due to the increase in excise duties. What is the position of farmers in Serbia now? Their position has never been worse. The prices of all the instructions are high and are still increasing. Subsidies reduced, markets liberalised to the extent that agricultural products that are very, very competitive, i.e. can be imported from the EU from the EU. cheaper than the products produced by us. Why wouldn't they be cheaper when their countries subsidise their production, largely, when, with all that, our country helps them unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement. Serbia thus provides a market for EU products, instead of finding a market for its products on which to place them. Serbian agricultural producers are now unable to export their products, they will not be able to sell them on their own market, as they will be imported cheaper, and in terms of the economic crisis, consumers mainly buy products that are cheaper, not seeing whether they are domestic or imported. This confirms my finding that agricultural producers in Serbia have never been in a worse position. The increase in the retail price due to the increase in the amount of excise duty will also negatively affect the business of goods and passengers and taxi drivers. Under the conditions of transition for privatising companies in social property, many workers have lost their jobs, left to themselves alone. The six-year privatisation process, during which 2,500 businesses were sold for a total of 4 billion euros, was assessed by experts not only slow and inefficient, but implemented under the worst law Serbia has ever seen. Experts argue that Serbia has not since privatisation, both because the Privatisation Agency has controlled itself and because of the fact that the money from the sale has already been spent. Happiness in the accident is, say knowers, which the authorities do not respect the laws, and which will save about 600 public enterprises from being bankrupt. In the Privatisation Agency, around 2,500 companies are estimating it as a success and stressing that the price was determined exclusively by the market. In contrast, economic experts claim that these same companies have been sold into depravity and without a clear state strategy. Also, one of the professors at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade points out that one of the biggest mistakes is making decisions to go to the budget, so the question is what will be done when the sources are drained. Social programmes were to be completely separated from the purchasing process and for this reason take more money, and then through a state strategy and with that same money solve the problem of unemployment. This is how certain companies received 100 euros each, while some passed 750 euros per year of work experience. Some of them, who received the miserable amounts of social programs, had to manage and employ themselves. Many decided to take a taxi ride, since they could buy the only car to do the job. At a time when the price of liquid oil gas was decent, this job could be paid as much as possible. The problem in this business is also great competition, so the profits are small. At a lower cost of fuel, the profits could be solid, so taxi drivers can feed their families, but with higher prices, that's impossible. If we look at the gas price structure in December 2008, we'll see that the amount of excise duty in the retail price is 44%. Our country did not take advantage of the possibility to lower excise duties this summer, when the price of oil rose dizzyly, as many European countries did. It will now raise them, making them a leader in Europe at a share of indirect taxes in retail prices. For those who use motor gasoline, it seems better that the ruling majority voted on the original bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, since it originally envisioned an increase in excise duties to 40.50 dinars. Meanwhile, the amount has been increased to 42 dinars. There's a lot of 40.50 dinars, and there's a lot of 42 dinars, and I think that's why I need this Article 3. To delete the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12398	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, five minutes left. Mr. Shormaz, you don't have enough time. We'll start with your participation in the debate after the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12399	Thank you, Madam President. The colleague Dimitrijevic essentially focused on what is called the recession of our economy, and if we talk about how we are going to fill the 2009 budget, the whole set of laws is about how much Serbia is going to shake the global financial crisis and that, in fact, the crisis of industrial society, the crisis of the value system, the crisis of culture and the crisis of ideology in the heads of those who do not know what ideology is and don't know what they need to lead them to the future and how a society is to focus on and what we rely on. Today, the problem is that none of our peasants in Serbia will be able to understand you, to increase the excise duty on what is their basis so that they can process their country, at a time when on the world financial market, unlike the period Lydia was talking about, in the summer months, now the price of oil and oil derivatives is spinning, and you are increasing the excise duty. How are you going to explain to every reasonable man that in these countries, and we've seen the move of some governments like Germany and some others, where the state intervenes to help everyone, from peasants, through workers and industry, you're doing new things, which are completely illogical, going to make it impossible for these people to survive this or next difficult year. Read a little bit of what economists in our world wrote, economists in the world, a month ago is one of the leading journalists of the Guardians, let's take him as an example, which deals only with world agricultural production, talking about that organic food production is the future for every country, and if Serbia has these opportunities and if 30% more natural resources are spent in the world today than nature can restore, I guess our goal is to create what we need. You think the demand for food will be less in this situation when the economic crisis is severe? They won't, because people have to eat kids too. It's another paradox. Everything else will be with an extremely reduced demand. You've seen what all the world's companies do, from the auto industry, through the manufacturer of technique, white techniques, etc., will increasingly give these bonuses and stimulate people to buy these products. What about the food? Back to that -- basic food production for a Serbian farmer, farmers anywhere in the world is very difficult, it takes a lot of work. This raw product that goes out to the market, whether it's cattle, cattle market sales, I'm talking about raw materials, whether it's fruit, vegetables, it's extremely cheap, and now it's not on the market, especially in Serbia because of this import lobby, that's the real real value, how much energy is invested, how much repromation it took to create this product. On the other hand, when you come to the store, the price of food is high. So this processed product is extremely expensive. I guess we, as a country that knows that almost one third, perhaps even more of our working-active population lives in these rural areas, in the village, now we have, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, received a proposal for a law on agricultural production, or agriculture in rural areas, I guess this should be a guideline, because it is in that national accession strategy for European integration, which we need to base on. It is the state of everything else that needs to give up, to reduce public spending, to turn the taps a little bit to the ministers and directors of public enterprises in Serbia that rob and kidnap, and to help the peasant. It is indeed inappropriate and they are right colleagues from the DSS who have proposed to delete this Article 3 because today, we are talking about it, it is incomprehensible for every farmer to increase the price of what he needs most. We also suggested that this article be deleted, it is an amendment in the same text, because we believe that in this and next year Serbia should have an exclusively designed and in the best possible way precise strategy for the development of agricultural production and how young people should return to the country. After all, the first five years of civilization tells you enough. Everyone was a farmer and everyone had a farm. Look where we are today and in Serbia back 50 years and over since the arrival of communists to power, and apparently nothing has changed now, or have some... (President: Time) The neocommunists in power or you have the same logic, that you destroy small farmers, small possessions and that you don't give them the opportunity to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12400	Thank you. Until 3:00 a.m. break, and then we'll get back to work. Mr. Dragan Shormaz will be a private participant in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12401	Dear People's MPs, we continue our session in the afternoon. In the morning section, they held discussions on the amendment to Article 3, which were submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulović and Aleksandar Pejcic. The word is Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12402	Dear citizens of Serbia, to whom I should address myself, there is no one from the government, and of the MPs you can see the number in the hall. I am reporting for the amendment of my colleague Arsen Đuric of the DSS parliamentary group and in the hope that we will convince, if not an absolutely incompetent government of the Republic of Serbia, then the parliamentary majority, which has on several occasions shown that, regardless of the government's negative opinion, we will adopt some amendment to the opposition, to adopt these amendments submitted by the DSS, because we all need to know together that the budget is not all in the economic policy of one country. It just isn't. There's a lot of what makes the economy and the economic policy of a country. With these bill proposals, which are now on the agenda, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is not only present at the National Assembly session, but is absolutely incompetent, I repeat for the second time, is the purpose of only one, filling the budget, the poor budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that we have brought in, to the greater extent possible, since everyone already knows that as planned, as this one for 2008 has not been realised in the way it is planned, neither will this one be realised nor filled in the way it is planned, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been entering the entire series of errors it has since September. I will remind you that this government has brought before this house and that the opposition has strongly opposed it, including the people of Serbia, amend and supplement the Law on Contributions, which allows those legal persons or economic operators, who did not in time regulate their obligations to employees in this regard and to the state and state funds, to settle their obligations until the end of 2008, and to have the state write off all the interest they had in return. We have said that this bill is very bad, that it will cause the opposite effect, that the privilege of such non-legislative business entities and do not fulfil their obligations to the state and employees in the legal way, and that the normal way everywhere in the world, essentially puts those who regularly, honestly and legally did their job. This could cause the opposite effect and have caused the opposite effect. It caused it, because the 2008 budget was not filled as planned and increased, instead of reducing, the number of businesses that began to owe in such a way, because it was completely logical. They immediately appeared, and this was warned by business and business associations in Serbia (if, the presidency, a little quieter) that this would happen and that it should not be done. It happened, it really happened. The number of economic operators that stopped these commitments has increased. It's getting bigger. What's going on now? Now this law needs to increase excise duties. Why? It's clear to everyone. Because of the incompetence of the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Boris Tadic, when we warned that the global economic crisis was coming to Serbia, that it had arrived in Serbia, we were told to spread panic, use demagogy, try to discredit the newly elected government and form a government that would take care of social rights and protect every citizen individually. It's all happening the other way around. We talked back then -- people, there was an economic crisis. She didn't start to surprise anyone in September-October. Those who follow it, and we know that governments are obliged to follow it, know that the crisis began in 2007 in the United States and that only what was happening in 2008 was strengthening the crisis, and the real recession was 2009. Because now that the company's balance sheets, banks, insurance companies, so when they see what they've lost in 2008, there's a recession in 2009. It's something that's happened before and that's predictable for anyone who's at least a little bit of understanding in the economy, and apparently in this government, who keeps saying he's running out of experts, there's nothing there. They weren't even as government ready to protect this country. It's a reality. Look at the newspaper that even favors you, two decades you're fond of, look at the title in "Time". In November, when the government of the Republic of Serbia and this empty chair here did not promise, but signed the extended fact of the collective contract, when it promised and signed the regresses and a warm meal, at the time they had largely removed the asphalt brokers in New York who were throwing themselves off buildings. How could that surprise you in November? How could you make such a move in November? Now, after a few days, it can't and then it can't argue with the businessmen, it can't deal with the unions, it's a tense situation. Who's to blame? The assembly. He's obstructing, if it weren't for the Assembly, everything would be fine. Of course, because only in the congregation, and with these media that we have, is heard about what and how you do. Now you've agreed, one part of the government, first of all to the DS, and how he thought he wasn't doing what's going on right now. You yourself know that the coalition partners from the G17 plus told you the sea and you squatted and said the seas, related to the unilateral application of the SAA trade agreement with the EU. That's what we've been talking about for days. It doesn't just cost those 300m euros to Serbia. It costs a lot more. It costs each citizen of Serbia the most, individually, poor Serbian citizen, because they will now be able to pay EU cars for 10% cheaper and seven comas something, but ordinary Serbian citizens, 90% of them do not work anyway. But because of the increased fuel excises, they're going to have to pay more expensive fuel at the pumps, which, of course, will have to be the business, and if the economy pays what we're going to get next? Of course we'll get higher prices of business products. No, but Mr. Miskovic is going to give up the margins in his shops, so let's see the miracle. He's the biggest, but there's more, he's not the only one. Should we take care of them or the poorest? Did you promise to join EU funds in the campaign? Yes, you promised. Where are they? What about them? You give 300m euros in money to the Serbian EU. You're helping the EU. The global economic crisis turns out that Serbia is helping the EU with this bill, not the EU to Serbia. You've turned everything upside down. Exactly five times I asked the question from this pay phone, based on the economic measures foreseen by the government of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, how many newly employed people in Serbia will be in 2009, based on promises you made in an election campaign of 200,000 employees. It doesn't have to be 200 grand in the first year, but it has to be something. You promised. No answer at all. They tell me opposition colleagues -- aman, man, don't ask them that again, how to answer you, what to answer you for? So it's a very difficult question. The number of unemployed is increasing and will increase further. The whole of Europe lowers VAT, the whole of Europe lowers interest rates, lowers the burden on the economy, just to avoid losing jobs, this is where it works the other way around. Business is burdened, businesses are burdened. Yesterday I was talking, now anyone can come out of the ruling majority to say -- it's not like that, it's going to be like this, but today a private message has been sent to me, I'm not going to say which one, so that he doesn't have any problems, which one of his two firms has closed down. A simple man when he saw more of these measures that you're about to do, when he put it all on paper he calculated that it was over, that he was followed by bankruptcy, liquidation, company collapse, and he sent me a message supporting everything I said yesterday and asking us to put even more pressure on the government to bring down VAT, not to pass these bad laws. If you haven't done the budget properly, and you haven't, give the budget rebalance which will really be restrictive. You've increased the number of employees in the public sector, you've increased since May, rather than shrinking. You've increased spending in the public sector rather than shrinking. This is the only country in the global economic crisis, at the moment of the global economic crisis on Europe's territory that increases public spending rather than reducing it. You can turn your head all you want, explain it to the entrepreneurs. You are increasing public spending, if one is increasing, is increasing on social giving and helping endangered categories of your society and helping those who remain jobless. And here who is being helped here? Directly with these measures and directly with these laws is the most endangered economy and metal complex of Serbia, and these are very interesting cities such as Nis, Kraljevo, Čačak, Kruševac, my Smederevo. Ask the Deputy Prime Minister of the DS whether it is true, not only is it not true what the President of the Republic said in his New Year's interview on RTS regarding "US Steel" that in Košice factory stops, as well as in Smederev; it slows down, but it doesn't stop. They stopped both the high furnaces in Smederev and put them on that walk. Not only that, but besides the pollution that makes up Smedereva, and they don't meet those conditions that are foreseen everywhere, including those in Pittsburgh that are intended, not only that, but they are planning, and ask the vice presidents of the DS Government whether that's true or not, that the entire drive, which is probably the most modern in Europe, is the cold-rolled lemon, so on. The cold rolling stock is packed and transported to Slovakia this year. How much will it reduce the number of employees in the factory, how much will it reduce the revenue of this budget and this state from the company that was the largest exporter, and besides that they plan to make coke in the factory circle, only one exists on the territory of Eastern Europe and nowhere else, because such factories are the largest environmental pollutants. That's how they look at us. The reason they act like this is the way you sold them ironworks. Otherwise, the late Prime Minister and DS President Zoran Djindjic were against it. You know he also went to Tisen Krup, which is the first visit he made as the elected Prime Minister, he went to Germany to negotiate with the Germans on the sale of the hardware store, but you were forced to make to this country, in a completely illegal and catastrophicly bad way, to sell that factory to US Steel for 20 times lower than it was estimated by Deloitte&touche. So, I'm done, and then you bring in the whole factory now, is that what, are you gonna tell the Americans that they're not doing it? You? Let's see that thing too. I was told by the Deputy Prime Minister that he was struggling. (President: National MP, time available to your MP's group has been used. I repeat again, these laws, I end up, I apologize, although we have had four amendments tied up, for an hour, no matter what, I end, it will be less than an hour, be convinced, I end up, once again with this sentence, this proposal by the law, Serbia is funding the EU, Serbia is helping the EU with at least 300m euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12403	Excuse me, MP, for disturbing our conversation with each other during your presentation, it was an exchange of information. I shall also inform the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 85(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today we'll be working after 6:00, and by debate, which at that time will be on the agenda, but not beyond 20.00 hours. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. So it's about the amendment to Article 3. National MP Dragan Shormaz said he has attached amendments. So, in the same text, the amendments have submitted, one amendment, four MPs of one parliamentary group, and the interpretation is that each amendment carries by its 15 minutes for each parliamentary group, by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but the bound amendments cannot be. MP Zoran Krasic, please. MP Zoran Antic, after him. I'm just asking you to say by which of the four identical amendments you're reporting for a word in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12404	I am reporting on the amendment of MP Arsen Đuric, since Mr Shormaz spoke about the amendment, because they are quite similar with the amendments of other parliamentary groups, it is more darkness for the government representatives than for the MPs. True, several MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. These members of the draft law shall be subject to the amendment of Article 9. The Excise Act, which is a member referring to excise duties on oil derivatives, is subject to excise duty. This bill requires the government to increase excise gas from 27.50 to 42 dinars per litre with diesel fuel from 16.66 dinars to 26 dinars per litre of that fuel and these other fractions left 32 dinars, while liquid oil gas for motor vehicles is suggested to have a excise charge of 13 dinar per kilogram, since there is a difference in the way fuel and liquid oil gas are expressed, that is gas used by passenger cars. All of this could be seen as a message in some way, since the government's 2009 income accounts for a real drop in income, then by some logic, in order to replace this lack of funds, an increase in excise duties is proposed. Accises are the most interesting in these products listed in Article 9. You saw a significant increase being proposed, so that, above all, what the government planned in 2009 would be budget spending. So, compared to 2008, we have a real increase in public expenditure that is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Just to remind you that several times over the past seven and a half years, the state administration has been increased, that as far as commitments are concerned by budgets, and as far as social policy is concerned, there has been no significant shift, and we can conclude that this increase in excise duties does not have any justification. I would ask, since it'll probably take another hour and a half to discuss Article 3. The bill provides that all those involved in the debate have in mind the provision of Article 17 of the existing Excise Act, because it is a member who regulates the indexation of excise duties, which, by some automation, is implemented once a year. The last indexation seems to me to have been in February 2008. In particular, I would draw attention to the provisions of Articles 2 and 3 of Articles 17 that prescribe, if I may say so, and so on. an emergency indexation, in case of a fall in the production price of an oil derivative caused primarily by a disturbance in the market for crude oil. Then we have variations when that excise is increasing on the basis of the powers passed by law to the government and reduced. I think Article 9 with this intervention and Article 17. The bill must be uniquely seen during today's debate. Why? Because the two members, in practice, should make it possible to make the excise revenues planned by the Republic of Serbia's budget. I have to draw attention to you that during 2007 and 2008, we were in a position to enrich ourselves with one experience, because the price of crude oil per barrel went to about 130-140 dollars, it seems to me, of course, depending on the situation in the Middle East, and not only the situation in the Middle East, depending on the war, on the policy of the OPEC members and the fact that the world's reserves of crude oil are being seen and that all estimates indicate that, in addition to some new sites that need to be opened and searched, we can talk about limited sources at all other sites, so that this change in the price of crude oil on the world market will certainly affect our market. You remember that during 2008, I probably won't make much of a mistake if I say, almost every month, we had a change in the retail price of an oil derivative. I think even once or twice we had twice in the month because of that drastic jump. It must also be taken into account that the purchase of crude oil, the purchase of crude oil, whether it goes over the stock market or goes in some other way, is one price when contracted, another price when delivered. And that also affects the retail price of oil derivatives. Let's go back to why we consider this an increase in excise duty unwarranted. It is unwarranted for the simple reason that, in conditions where everyone is thinking about how to survive in 2009 at global level – few countries will have a positive rate of GDP growth, you can see that we are also wandering with these estimates of how much the real growth of gross social product will take place, regardless of the changed methodology of calculating gross social product, it seems to me since June 2001 – all these movements suggest that the state must regulate the part treated as a cost or as expenditure. It must be limited in its consumption. When we talk here, at least we from the SRS, about the need to limit public spending, first of all, we think about the budget, not the social components of our budget, not those transfers that are defined by material regulations, where there is a commitment of the state, but first of all, we think about those positions, and only as an association for thinking, these are, first of all, those positions – services by contract, official travel, an unwarranted number of employees, a multiplied number of agencies for the past six-seven years, an increase in the number of employees and the fact that for many public jobs or some estimates that should be done by state authorities, various agencies on the side are involved, that there is a need to look for a space to reduce public spending, and thus not to increase excise, that there is no increase the rate of tax on added value. Because I have to remind the public that even when the Value Added Tax Act was passed, a few years ago, as a party, we suggested that that rate should not be 18%, but we said to start with 14%, so let's see in the perspective whether it should change up. This is how we got into one situation, it started with 18%, and some of the appetites were satisfied, and now there's a problem with the lack of funds, and there's this kind of thinking about value added tax, and you know, what with the lower one, what with the higher value added tax rate, is almost covered by over 90% of all, if I may say, both goods and services. We think that it must be a safe policy to run, because if this policy is not guided in this way, then we come into a situation that, from material and legal regulations, which must have a relatively long period of time guaranteed invariableness, we are now in a situation that, because of the Budget Act, each year changes the 10-15 material rules that should represent relatively lasting value. Because if someone has to plan their production in a few years, he needs to know -- the VAT rate won't change, the excise will not change, the property tax won't change, the income tax won't change, the company's profit tax won't change. So he needs to know what his is, if I may say, "fixed operating costs", very specific, but still those costs he has to count on. Let me remind you, a few months ago, we passed two laws here that we delayed the settlement of certain obligations based on compulsory health insurance and tax. I think it's in a collection of about 45 billion dinars, so whoever's neat can count on what's reached 31. 12. 2008 or 2007, it doesn't matter. It is important that there are some mechanisms and that there must be thought in the long term, because if the Excise Act is changed twice every year, then the Chamber of Commerce would have to organise strikes, it would have to organise demonstrations of businessmen, because they do not have stable business conditions. As the idea of budgeting changes, the material regulation of long-term character changes. We, of course, object to it, raise our voice and criticise the government. Now I would draw attention to some more moments that may not have direct, but have indirect connections to this. What's this about? If some "capital investment" is forced out of the budget and provides some funds on the side, or the government tries to play a good creditor with its own resources, or through some public enterprise, and then those who engage in this operation, such as tolls, builders, etc., in order for the rest of the business to have to take commercial loans and pray when the state, directly, through the para-state authorities, will fulfil its obligation to perform its work and services, and then we come into a situation that all successful results of a business will be moved to banks. It all moved in with the banks. You've seen, butters say I don't know how much the government's debt is to them. You see who's making money, it's not the one who worked, who organized the job, it's the one who owned the capital and who could finance this with that capital. I get the impression this government is being handled by bankers, soul dealers. I can give you another example. Take printed media in the Republic of Serbia, not counting two-three that have a privileged position, all others are dependent on several companies dealing with the distribution of newspapers. As a rule, it's a 45-70-day debt. The press is looking for money right now, and there are lists that owe two months. In order to make sure they get out, they have to take out bank loans. When a newspaper distributor gives them back their money after 60 days, they've got practically a bank. To survive, they live off those commercials they can charge. That's how you started shutting down the media. To be even more specific, if you take what you did in 2008, what you earned, you worked for the government of the Republic of Serbia. There's no profit. There is only profit in those businessmen who almost planned the guaranteed profits as a fixed business cost, so what remains to go on electricity, on taxes, and on employees, as the owner of capital, I grabbed what I expected and planned during this year or this month. This is not how economic policy is run. If that's how economic policy is run, then little can say there's a state in some territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12405	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is impossible not to respond to this amendment submitted by my colleagues from the DSS and it is impossible not to support this amendment, not to support it as a national MP, and I am convinced to speak on behalf of all SNS-Tomislav Nikolic MPs, because it implies the abolition of excise duties on oil derivatives. Oil and excise derivatives, provided for by this member of the law, increase as much as 60% specifically for diesel fuel, to motor gasoline by 52%, and to liquid oil gas by 30%. In this way, the cost of our economy increases significantly, the cost of production. This way significantly reduces purchasing power and this is, of course, unacceptable for SNS-Tomislav Nikolic. I would like to say that these excise duties are also subject to additional tax, as this increases the tax base and that these excise duties will be even higher and will further burden the economy and citizens of Serbia. It also seems unacceptable to me that yesterday we had one law that gave the EU 25 billion dinars, and that today we have a law that we take from our citizens 14 billion dinars. This and this law, or similar law, we had a year ago, if you remember, it also seemed to me in January 2008 we had changes in excise policy, an increase in excise duties. And what did we have after that in 2008? In part, thanks to this increase in inflation, the second part thanks to the increase in public spending, we had a huge inflation in the first half of 2008, and in the second half of 2008, the government sought economic policy to curb that inflation to one single-digit amount, but the price for curbing that inflation was disastrous. In October and November, we had an exceptional drop in industrial production, we had the fact that in 2008 compared to 2007, we had less open shops, and more closed, as I said in 2008, than in 2007, that this trend was particularly enhanced in the last quarter of 2008 and that it is obvious that our economy, that our entrepreneurs cannot survive with this economic policy of the government. Who could benefit from this kind of excise policy, from increasing excise duties? Of course, a budget that isn't restrictive enough will show up in the first trimester, I'd say, in 2009. Of course, politicians will have most of the money available, will have a state administration, but will have, above all, Serbian citizens, who will get inflation, expensive products, a lower standard of living. But what's most dangerous, by increasing excise duties, is that by increasing taxes, it affects our economy, which is already quite inexplicable. We are doing what, or our government is doing with economic policy, what other countries in Europe are not doing that are fighting the global economic crisis. We're reducing investments instead of increasing them. We burden the economy instead of discharging it and allowing jobs to be preserved and the economy to be liquid. With a course like this, which you see for yourself, in January it is already less than 20% higher than in the previous year, with this kind of policy and excise, and maybe tax, because an increase in the value of the tax is announced, with this kind of public consumption, without a doubt, we will have great inflationary expectations. These inflationary expectations, as in the previous year, will be contained in a restrictive monetary policy. The suppression of inflation must also follow the decline in industrial production, must monitor the decline in economic growth, the decline in gross domestic product. All of this will reflect strengthening the recession, reducing the number of jobs, new cancellations and higher unemployment rates in the following year. It's unacceptable for the SNS. The government needs to change economic policy urgently. It has been implementing this economic policy for eight years, relying primarily on borrowing and privatisation, revenues from privatisation. We have to turn to our economy. We also need to reduce public spending if we want to preserve this economy that we have right now. Once again, SNS-Tomislav Nikolic will not vote in favour of the law that implies new burdens on the economy and citizens of Serbia. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12407	Anybody else answer for a word? Alexander Pejcic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12408	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would also like to address the Government's representative, but here we do not have a representative of the government, we expected at least Mrs Dragutinovic to come here and give us some answers to the questions that we have and how important for today's session. We don't have a representative of the government. Maybe some on-call minister will come here and give us some appropriate answers. What I expected today was that on the agenda there would be actually a budget rebalance. The budget we adopted in 2008 is extremely bad, and I expected the government to pass on the budget rebalance to this assembly, in order to improve it a little bit, to defend what cannot be defended. The government has offered us a certain set of laws, these are following the budget laws, or if you will, that set of economic laws that only has one single objective, which is to replace the funds that we will lose by unilateral application of the Stabilisation Agreement. That's the only goal of this set of laws the government has offered us today. In fact, Serbia is losing about 300m euros by unilaterally applying the Stabilisation Agreement, as you all know. These are not small money for the Serbian economy, they are big money, and they will be compensated by the economy of Serbia and Serbian citizens through various incomes and taxes. To explain to Serbian citizens how long it will take a unilateral application of the Stabilisation Agreement. It will last until the moment until all EU countries verify this Stabilisation Agreement in their parliaments, such as our parliament. So far, we have a hint that the Netherlands will never do that. These days, we also have a statement by Mrs Doris Pack, who said Serbia must co-operate with Kosovo among other things, which means that the Stabilisation Agreement will soon not be verified and that Serbia will not join the EU soon, because we have one new condition. Since this set of laws will best affect Serbia's economy and one of its branches, which is agriculture, I will try to get you through a plastic example from where I come from to explain how it will hit my end of this Stabilisation Agreement. Namely, I come from a devastated area, from Leskovec, a city that is the fifth largest in Serbia, a city that once had a developed textile industry, a city that has 144 inhabited places, i.e. 144 villages, and since the entire economy is devastated, many citizens of the municipality of Leskovac, i.e. Agricultural producers have begun to deal with primary agricultural production. Normally, the previous two governments of Vojislav Kostunica allowed them to deal adequately with agricultural production by mobilising them through various subsidies, then defining loans with grace periods of three to five years, and these were favourable loans that were citizens of the Jablani County and citizens of Serbia and how they used. I remind you that agriculture is the only branch in Serbia that has a surplus in exports, somewhere around $450,000, is not much, but we have put that fragile business branch on glass feet. However, with this budget, since the government has cut the agricultural budget by 25%, we have broken those glass legs and agriculture hardly will be able to get out of the fungi. So, as I said, I come from Leskovec, a city known for the production of war culture, for the production of tomatoes, for the production of peppers, for the production of fruits such as cherry, apples, pears. I'll tell you the information that the Jablani County has about a million cherry trees, about 500,000 pear trees, apples, plums. We also have quality agricultural products, such as the rakija "Villamovka", which is produced in Agrocombinate "Porečje-Vučje", we have the best quality barbecue meat, as you all know, Leskovac is famous for barbecue. The question now raises how a woodland farmer will react to this Stabilisation Agreement and what he will gain, or what he will lose through the application of this Stabilisation Agreement. He's gonna lose a lot. As I said, we are one of the largest exporters of surpluses, and if we now have unfair competition on our market, because the biggest surplus producers in the European Union are Hungary and Poland, and if we try to import that cherry from Poland and Hungary now, it will be much, much cheaper, because it is subsidized by their country, because customs are not paid for importing these goods here on our market. I'm afraid that, as I said, the agriculture we've put on the unhealthy feet of the house is going to come down to the bottom. The DSS has offered a package of measures, a package of legal solutions to help the citizens of Serbia, because it is going to meet the problem, and the problem, as you all know, is the global economic crisis, and we have, in this regard, passed a number of laws that would help Serbia's economy a little bit to minimise these negative economic effects. So is DSS 13. 11. In 2008, she submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, 6. 11. 2008 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, 31. Ten. 2008 Proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to monitor the global economic crisis and 8. Ten. 2008 deposit insurance law. In many of these laws, the government's representatives laughed, didn't they, Mr. Ilic, said they were not good and quality. However, we have seen in a later period that the government has just offered these laws to us here as a good and quality solution. What I also noticed was that this socially responsible, or socially irresponsible, I think that the socially irresponsible government, did that in the course of the election campaign, it signed a collective agreement with the Independent Union of Serbia, and after that, because the unions no longer needed them, because the elections were over, there are no election campaigns, they withdrew the agreement and we have a problem today. Workers will sue the government of the Republic of Serbia in this regard after withdrawing the agreement. She withdrew the agreement and the employers' union, the first one, and then later the government by momentum, and now we have one problem of socially irresponsible government. So, "Play the dots" doesn't work. What we signed during the campaign is no longer valid, we no longer need workers, and now we go to another problem. Now the question is, what is the government of the Republic of Serbia doing here? Is this about a political masochism towards the EU or is it about economic sadism towards the economy of Serbia and Serbian citizens? The question should be answered by this socially irresponsible government. Dear friends, I assume that many of you, especially from the opposition, will vote in favour of this amendment and the amendment of my colleagues, because this amendment provides for excise duties on fuel, oil and oil derivatives to remain the same. So the excise duty on gasoline would remain 27.50, not now as much as predicted 42, oil at 16.66, not as predicted 26, liquid gas at 10, not as predicted 13. This increase in excise duty would in fact cause a new inflation wave, a new increase in prices and send a bad message to all those foreign business entities who would like to invest in Serbia if they didn't come here. This government is also considering value added tax. Yesterday we heard as one of the measures in the future, if there is a lack of money in the budget, that the value added tax will be increased. You still don't know, you're thinking about it, let's say so conditionally. It was also suggested by Mrs Dragutinovic about 4-5 days ago, when we read her interview. I say again, that value added tax should not be increased, in fact, a value added tax mechanism should be found, because 30% of the countries never charge. In that sense, you need to think. I hope this government finds a way and a VAT collection mechanism, that 30%. Dear friends, that's it. I hope that in the voting day you will vote for this amendment of mine and I thank you in advance. I hope the government accepts this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12409	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. I'm just asking you to tell me in the discussion of the details of whose amendment you want to discuss, so that I know that I can tell you whether you have time available as a parliamentary group or not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12410	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for an amendment from my fellow DSS colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12411	He's been at your disposal for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12412	The proposed increase in excise duties on petroleum products would result in a significant increase in prices of a number of other products. It would chainly cause an increase in the cost of life and make conditions for Serbia's economy worse. For these reasons, I support the amendment and the explanations you've heard from a colleague from the DSS. To make it more clear to the Serbian citizens what we're talking about, I'm going to take this opportunity to read them all the proposed excise increases: the raw coffee increases from 30% to 40%, to beer from 9 to 15 dinars, to all kinds of motor gasoline from 27.5 to 40.5 dinar per litre, to all kinds of diesel fuel from 16.66 to 26 dinars per litre, to other oil derivatives, an excise of 32 dinars per kilogram will be paid. This bill also provides for an increase in excise duties on tobacco and tobacco products, from the current 8.48, it seems to me that the dinar per pack to 24 dinars by 1 January 2012, by increasing excise duties gradually, i.e. 11 dinars, next year 16 dinars, in 2011 20 dinars, and from 1 January 2012, 24 dinars. I don't smoke myself, I haven't had coffee in 15 years, I rarely drink a glass, I'm a bitter opponent of drunkenness and smoking, but I believe, given the social circumstances, it's not justified that one state is fighting against this social evil exclusively by increasing product prices, and the increase in excise duties will in any case lead to a significant increase in the prices of all these products. I am not saying this because of six million Serbian citizens drinking coffee, smoking or drinking alcoholic beverages, but because of several hundred thousand citizens of Serbia whose morning coffee, morning cigarette or some cup of brandy remains literally the only pleasure they can afford. I know this is unpopular to say from a congregation pay phone, but unfortunately, that's the case. We live under such social and economic circumstances. Accise as a type of tax has been introduced to tax luxury goods - oil derivatives, furs, precious metals, mostly everything that is under the term "luxury", with the aim of taking away from those who have a lot and sharing a fair share of that wealth to those who have little. The most recent ID card would be - it is the type of tax that is charged to the easiest and simplest and which is charged from a very small number of taxpayers. We in Serbia have for years had one situation that is completely contrary to this original sense of excise duty as a special tax. In our case, the burden of excise duty is allocated to the largest layers of the population, and so the most burdens those who have the least, and the least burdens those who have the most. If the total excise income in the Republic of Serbia's budget could be divided into social categories, of which they are charged, there is no doubt that most of these revenues would be determined to be exactly the poorest of the population. Facts are that these are official statistics, that in Serbia more than 50% of the population is drinking coffee, 35% of the population is constantly smoking, even at least occasionally light a cigarette, and 80% of Serbian citizens are constantly or occasionally drinking alcoholic beverages. Only one-fifth of Serbian citizens don't use alcohol at all. It's very interesting here -- that among those drinks is the cheapest beer, and some call it "poor drinks." It is interesting that this bill proposes an increase in excise duties, a significant increase in excise duties, exclusively for beer, while there is no increase in excise duties on other alcoholic products. That the Excise Act, as well as a set of these proposed tax laws, is not good can be seen on the next case. In fact, the Law amending the Customs Act provides for a significant reduction of customs duties on imports of cars, and, on the other hand, a significant increase in excise duties on coffee, from 30% to 40%, which amounts to an increase of approximately 33%. This is interesting because reducing customs duties on imports of cars will, in any case, facilitate the position of those who already have. You know, without a car, anyone can live. Cars, especially from abroad, are bought by well-being Serbian citizens. On the other hand, from excise on coffee, they'll have the poorest ones. On the one hand, in figures, the benefits of this bill will benefit several tens of thousands of citizens, and on the other hand there will be several million of those citizens of Serbia who, in any case, are more materially poor. The paradox is that the greatest benefit from this customs law will be the richest man in Serbia - Miroslav Miskovic, because he has a monopoly on passenger car imports, has a monopoly on imports of some other products on which the proposal for this customs law will reduce and he will anyway get the opportunity to get a fortune, which some estimate at a billion - 1.5 billion euros, significantly higher. On the other hand, Serbia's poorest layer of the same money, coffee and drink will be able to afford, in any case, to obtain harder than it has been before. One of the significant consequences of increasing excise duties, especially for coffee, is likely to be coffee smuggling. An increase in excise duties of 33% will result in an increase in coffee prices of at least 12 to 20 dinars, which is approximately and there is a small difference. Okay, hold on, excuse me, let me finish. In any case, this could lead to coffee smuggling, which is partly present due to the price of coffee in Serbia, increasing further in the coming period. As for the excise on alcohol, I said that an increase in excise duty is intended only for beer. In Serbia, all estimates suggest that alcoholism is extremely present in the wider layers of the population and it was logical to increase excise duty on all alcoholic products. On the other hand, recent research suggests that moderate coffee consumption does not produce any harmful consequences or very little harmful consequences. We now have an absurd situation - on products that do not have, I say, a greater harmful social fact, an increased excise duty, while on those other products, which are undoubtedly found to have an extremely harmful fact in the health of the population, there is no increase in excise duty. I would also like to point out to the citizens of Serbia the fact that these laws are not only proposed wrongly, but also the way we discuss them. As Mr Krasic said the other day - we first raised the roof, adopted the budget, and now we are trying to build a house. I think the order of moves was supposed to be the other way around -- that we had to figure out the amount of excise duties first, figure out what kind of administrative fees would be, and make one budget projection based on that, to make a draft budget, a proposal for revenue and budget expenditure. However, the executive power put this parliament ahead of a final act and led us practically into an unexplainable situation. Even if we all agree here now that some of these legal solutions are not good, we will have to vote for them, or the ruling majority, because this is a prerequisite that the budget adopted in the eyes of the new year would not remain a dead letter on paper. I must remind the citizens of Serbia that for the fourth time, the executive power puts the legislative authority before the final act. It was the first time the passport extension law was adopted. The second time was when the Budget Law was adopted, the third time it was when the Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act was adopted, and this is the fourth case that the legislative authority of the Serbian Parliament was practically maturated by the executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12413	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12414	Dear fellow Members of the People, we heard today in the debate on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act a truly reasoned debate of Members of Parliament. My amendment is related to Article 3(1), which requires that that position be deleted. It concerns, above all, the excise on fuel and all three types of fuel, because we find it unacceptable and harmful, in conditions of increasing prices to a small and otherwise cost of life and the consumer basket, to increase the amount of excise duties on fuel, which certainly represents an input to the prices of all other products. First of all, we've already heard from this pay phone that this is going to have a very bad impact on agriculture, on the metal complex, on the carriers. If it affects the carriers, then it must be included in the price of each product, and as with all the taxes, contributions, taxis, etc., all this must be transferred to that last customer, consumer, user, or citizen of Serbia, so that the negative consequences of this law will be felt by all. We were expecting these laws. We have seen under the Budget Law that it is necessary for these laws to be passed, in order for the revenue side of the budget to be filled, but we think that you are really going in reverse order and that it would be fair to go with these laws first, and then go with the budget law, so that everyone knows how and how you will fill the budget. What the Government, in its explanation of not accepting my amendment, states for me as a People's MP and the SRS, whose name I have submitted the amendment, is that it is products that have an unclassified demand, which is somewhat true, although not entirely, and that the proposed amount of excise duty does not necessarily have to affect the growth of retail prices of oil derivatives, whose height depends primarily on the price policy of economic operators. Excise on the products proposed in the law create conditions for the provision of excise revenue by projecting the 2009 Budget Act. You have been honest here in this part, but what is the main reason for this law, although before I have to ask you what this is really about, since in Article 9, you are talking about excise duties that are increasing for all types of motor gasoline from 27.50 to 42 dinars, etc., and in the light of the bill itself, you are talking about the current amount of 35.91 dinar, and that the last alignment was in January 2008, meaning that something was harmonised by the Government Regulation in the meantime. We would like to warn you that this future government does not take on what parliament should do. So, regulations are necessarily evil sometimes for law-making, but when, now that we've only increased excise duties by this law, that's when it's supposed to come to the agenda, so that the National Assembly can declare it, not that the government does. We really think it is at least rude, not to say that the government does not respect parliament, but that it does not send a real minister to parliament when we are discussing the bill's proposals. It also humiliates the minister, and I don't know how the ministers allow it not to safeguard their integrity. She would understand if they had sent a Deputy Prime Minister in charge of finance or something, but if the minister hadn't shown up here and not kept his integrity and integrity of the National Assembly, that's something we've only had since 2000. This morning, we listen to the secretary of state saying that the minister's statement was reckless when it came to VAT, which was announced to us by Minister Dragutinovic as a matter of fact this year. I really don't know what it's all about, but it's not good for the public to come out of the same ministry. If Mrs. Minister was wrong about something, if she was misunderstood, if what she said was mistranslated, she should deny herself, not that the secretary of state is doing it on her behalf, because that's how she destroys the minister's reputation again. As you can see, we advocate the respect of all the institutions in this country, starting with the government, parliament, and other lower institutions, because that's the only way we can have a regulated state. This isn't any personal attitude, no personal sympathy, we just think it's only normal. In your reasons for the adoption of this law, you have made it clear that it is a gradual harmonisation of excise policy with EU regulations and standards, a reduction of the appearance of a grey economy in the transport of excise products, and thus the provision of a more stable flow of excise assets into the Republic budget. You have referred to the rules of the Council Directive, not to read those numbers, go - the total excise burden must not be below 57%. The retail price of one pack of cigarettes in a pack of cigarettes with the most popular price and that the total excise duty cannot be lower than 64 euros per 1,000 pieces of cigarettes in the category of cigarettes with the most popular price. I just came out of my amendment now, which concerns oil products, because I really think it must be distracted from this place and from you and the government, and especially from the Minister of Agriculture, related to tobacco producers, who have strongly condemned the Ministry of Agriculture's announcement of the suspension of the tobacco production premium, announcing the possibility that 10,000 workers will be out of work. Last year, a law was passed that tobacco companies in Serbia are no longer required, they are mostly privatised, you know, to buy 50% of domestic tobacco. Who's gonna sell that tobacco to, if there's no subsidy, since there's cheaper tobacco everywhere in the environment. The question is raised and you are reminded by producers of the statement by his time-old Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic, who said privatisation of the tobacco industry will lead to the growth of tobacco production in Serbia. We're a long way from blooming. It looks like we'd be healthy and it won't be tobacco production, so I don't know what we're tobacco industry and what in the world is and what we've been selling. Today we're running one policy, tomorrow the other, and I've only talked about it because we think there's general uncertainty on the market. It is an economic crisis, but don't get away with the world's economic crisis. We know that this crisis has been for a year and a half. No one here has come out to say that in America or Canada, entire families are being killed for losing their jobs, being left without an apartment, without a house, without a car. They're not as flexible as we are, that they can take it all, for the first time, something like this is happening to them. We've had a lot going on, so we're going to survive that economic crisis. We have to in some way ensure that there is some certainty, because whoever plans their production for next year, he already has in mind -- the tax on this is this big, the excise is as big, everybody imposes, income tax, VAT -- and then he can calculate that price. We, as citizens, don't even know in advance what tax we're going to pay on anything, property tax or real estate tax or whatever you want, but we only find out half the next year. That's what's wrong. Once we have to turn things around in favor of those we do it for and give them the opportunity to keep them out of harm's way and so the budget itself will be more stable, fuller, because they will be able to fill it with a lot more resources than they can now. We'd have more real prices and the market would be much more stable. Someone here today, at the pay phone, mentioned US Steel. We just have an obligation, for the sake of the public, because we know that this privatisation has been under way, to tell you that, as one of the largest export companies, it has exported its products with 80%. Where? To the Russian Federation. Not for free, US "Steel" insisted on coming to Serbia's market. Once again, one of the MPs of some party, Alexander Vukic, told the speaker that he supports the DSS amendments, and I ask him -- how when was the intention, both the party's co-chairs, to support the SAA which is the main cause of the adoption of these laws, because of the SAA, we lost about 300 million, and now we have to replace it by making our citizens pay. They are neither driven nor guided, as our people would say, but there is nothing out of consistency but pure demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12415	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12416	You see, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, how top-of-the-line global technology slowly penetrates all the pores of this government and parliament, and God's and the states. First, in 1999, we had stealth planes, invisible technology, barely seen by our own, and then the bulldozer revolution came, and then we had experts with stealth beliefs about expertise, and in fact no one saw them, no one saw their diplomas, that experts, so after they made us happy, they disappeared, too, became invisible, and there were some leads left, Djelic and maybe a few others, so after that we had a stealth standard of citizens, the citizens didn't see how high their standards were, they couldn't even see, and now we have a stealth minister, there he is, sitting on this chair, but no one sees him. Let me get back to the amendment. Since we got the draft budget law and we all saw that there were 50 billion dinars missing there, we realized that it would have to be somehow taken from someone to make up for it. More specifically, spending was 50 billion dollars higher than what the state has. After that, we saw that the state would be short for 280m euros, or converted into dinars, that is 26 billion dinars. Of course the state has to take someone from someone. It's not only good that the state behaves so she's got Robin Hood's logic backwards. Robin Hood took from the rich and gave to the poor, and they began to kidnap the poor and to give to the rich. When the stealth minister, Mrs Diana, announced the other day in the newspaper that the increase in VAT would be very soon in front of MPs, and then to enter the broad crowds, it was clear that it was a confirmation of this misunderstood Robinhud logic. Liberation from EU goods customs, unilateral release, will first destroy the economy and primarily agriculture. The economy in the sense that our IMT cannot handle John Dire, because the production of John Dire is also subsidized in a certain way and that John Dir will certainly be more competitive. That will destroy our tractor industry. Agriculture is absolutely subsidized in EU countries. Agricultural products will be able to be far cheaper here, and by doing so, we will finally choke both peasants and what little production we could rely on at the worst and hardest years, because we knew that we would have bread to feed the nation. The increase in excise duties is exactly filling those gaps in the budget, those spending holes I was talking about. The holes resulting from the elimination or reduction of customs duties will immediately be filled with an increase in excise duties. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(2). Article 3 says - in Article 9 of the basic law, point 1), 27.5 of the dinars was a excise on gasoline, replaced by 42, at point 2), number 16.66, that refers to oil, replaced by 26, so 16.5 dinars was an oil tax, now 26, and liquid oil gas for motor vehicles from 11 to 13 dinars. When we look at how the excise was growing on that liquid car-powered oil gas, it's like this. By December 31st 2007, a year ago, the excise duty for this fuel was six dinars. The period from 1 January 2008 to now was 10 dinars, now 13 dinars. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, many don't know, don't even need to know, and Serbian citizens don't know, don't even have to know, what liquid oil gas is. The fractional distillation of crude oil in the Panchevo refineries and Novi Sad is obtained as a by-product, if we want raw oil to get gasoline, diesel, etc. as a by-product, we have liquid oil gas, or degazolinage, we have a refinery for degazolination in Elemir, where we remove the cocoa from natural gas, from the natural gas that comes out of our wells and passes through the pipe, we take the propane and butane, and the methane, ethanol and other fractions remain, and that's the natural gas that comes through the pipes to the consumer, either in the industry or in the household, and this special technology translates into liquid state and then distributes it that way. In the 1960 ’ s, a pioneer effort to introduce liquid oil gas for motor vehicles began. Now we have a situation that is trying, or very successfully bringing to an end the experiment and I expect that very soon the buses will go to natural gas. What we did with liquid oil gas in the '60s, now we do with natural gas. There are two buses in Belgrade that use natural gas as fuel. The paints are white and green and you can see them. Otherwise, the production is a FAP from Preboj and you can see them on our streets. The state has been all along helping to expand the consumption of liquid oil gas to drive cars for several reasons. The first thing that was that liquid gas was and it's easier to import when it's gone. The second is that the air pollution is absolutely reduced to a minimum, because by burning liquid oil gas, as well as natural gas, only carbon dioxide, which is not dangerous in the environment, is a dangerous sulphur and lead, which engines that use oil and gasoline throw into the atmosphere. So on the one hand you get clean air in cities, and on the other hand that gas is far cheaper, because it enters production as a by-product. Third, it extends a century of internal combustion engine. The problem of why it didn't spread so fast was simple. At the time, the state had a monopoly over the distribution of derivatives, including liquid gas, and there were charging stations, and besides them there were liquid gas pumps in cars in Nis, Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, Belgrade, so very little. Today in Belgrade, we have at least 10 pumps to sell liquid oil gas. The price of the device was also a factor that did not allow enlargement, as it has always moved around about two, two, and a half thousand marks for more quality devices, even our country has been producing time for a time per license of liquid oil gas-powered appliances. However, the most qualitative, tartarin hunter, not only in Italy, but in the world are the most wanted and their price is now moving around about 1000, 1200, 1300 euros, depending on the size of the bottle in which the liquid gas is drained. Many are crossing, precisely because the standard has squeezed them, because it's how we feel, because our consumer basket is getting more empty, smaller, and more expensive, and people have started to cross over for rationalization. It separates 1,000 euros once and for about a year, in eight months to a year, depending on how much the car uses, only to save it back. Since this government is capable of finding a way to get her shirt off her bare back, they've found a way to get in here slowly. First, they didn't get city traffic, no matter how hard they try or at least talk about trying out of town, city traffic isn't satisfactory. Secondly, often or you are unable to get to work, and this was a way to relatively cheaply drive to work and back. I've been given an explanation why my amendment isn't being adopted. It says so - the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as those mentioned in the reasons for not accepting amendments to Article 3 submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic. I read the explanation given to Mrs Gordani Pop-Lazic, so he says - the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons for not accepting the amendments submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic. I read the following explanation to come up with an explanation why my amendment has not been accepted. According to the amendment of MP Milos Radulovic, the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as the amendments submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Arsen Djuric. I am going forward, Mr Arsen Đuric's amendment -- the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as mentioned in the reasons for not accepting the amendment to Article 3, which was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. That's where we came to the end. The explanation to Mr Palalic says - given that the products having an unelastic demand and that the proposed amounts of excise duty do not necessarily have to affect the growth of retail prices of oil products, whose height, above all, depends on the price policy of economic operators, the amounts of excise duty on oil products proposed in the law, are created conditions for the provision of excise incomes designed in the 2009 Budget Act. Anyone who understands will understand. We'll start to analyze this argument. Insatiable demand; you see what the government has come up with. It's probably an elastic demand for them if one month the consumption of an article is 10 units and another 30 units, then it's elastic, and it's insatiable if demand is roughly uniform. I can't figure it out any other way. Non-elastic demand, as well as the proposed amount of excise duty, the proposed amount of excise duty of three dinars per litre – because this is also about liters as well as gasoline, regardless of whether the liquid oil gas is sold for households in kilograms and a litre is somewhere between 530 to 580 grams, depending on the mixture, whether it is more propane or butane. They found a way to make three dinars, and the consumption is a little bit higher, I think it's about 10 to 15% higher than the consumption of gasoline -- and since it's insatiable, every month they can count on an increase in the inflow of the budget, because when you increase the excise duty then it's so much higher. This insatiable demand also has elasticity, it's all been so far, because people have decided to transfer their cars, and to remind you that the average age of cars in Serbia is 12 to 16 years old, there are older ones, and then they are insatiably elastic about the side that weighs them. The revenue in the budget will be bigger than that. They don't affect the rise of retail oil prices. It's not. When did the state excise go up without raising the price of oil and oil derivatives at the same time? (Chairman: Time, Momir.) I see the time is up. I'm going to have to explain this amendment of mine one more time to get back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12417	Thank you, too. Here you go again. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12418	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I told you a new year ago what would happen to us, but you seemed to be laughing, you didn't believe me, and it might be good if I wasn't right. I told you about the time of the '90s, when I experienced what Serbia is experiencing today, or what the government is experiencing with gas, that this could happen to Serbia and, unfortunately, that's what happened. It happened that the Hungarians broke our valve and there was no gas, and then there was a Santa Claus, named Tadic, to provide us with the amounts of gas that would warm Serbia. You see how these amounts of gas are secured, they are reportedly provided via Hungary, through Germany, through these great friends of ours who are in the EU, and if these friends were not there, Serbia would be frozen today. But you can see that Rasim Ljajic has entered the scene. He began to arrest Ratko Mladic, Radovana has already been arrested, and Goran Hadzic. He began to mention some rewards, big rewards to deceive the Serbian public, that is to sort of drive his thoughts away from one big and economic, and whatever you want, and the ecological disaster that has hit Serbia. You see, you want to fill Serbia's budget. Many have said that, I will not repeat myself with my colleagues and other MPs who spoke about excises, coffee, and now oil, and tobacco, but you have forgotten something else. You've forgotten that excises should be on drugs, drugs that have probably entered the legal functioning patterns of the government itself. You don't mention it at all, and you see how some tycoons, or some people, have become rich in Serbia, distribution and drug trafficking through Kosovo and Metohija, not to mention where all this evil doesn't come from in Serbia's territory. Understand that this is all slowly talking about one big eight-year incompetence, and corruption, and crime, and lies and government fraud that have ruled Serbia for all these eight years. Now you mention some Banatical Court, I'm afraid they don't think there's some kind of castle in the West, so you're saying that and how there's no gas storage that's needed as energy. I'm asking you, so you're all on this left-hand side for eight years, except for the Socialists, where you could probably have provided that tank and I see, I'm not a thermo-energyian, but I must honestly tell you that I've been dealing with this matter for a long time. So it's mentioned, and it's 11m euros from the NIP, as far as it's been taken, and when it's all been added up since 2006, you've done about 25% on the project. Now you mention again, we will be providing Serbia by the end of the next heating season, which will be irrefutablely heating, which will use gas as energy, but I must honestly tell you that there are many industrial centres that use gas for their production. That was well said by my colleague Petar Jojic, who spoke about the mineral fertilizer factory. It's another big attack on the peasants. He pays the full price of all of this today that has hit Serbia. You'll say - how? Well, here you see, no mineral fertiliser factory in Serbia is working, and probably not even certain mineral fertiliser factories work, from which countries we have imported this finished product. Unfortunately, once in Europe, Serbia was also known throughout Yugoslavia as the former for the production of mineral fertilisers, where we could also export to the Latin American market. You see, but there were these 90s and so on, but there was a reserve in the maput, so we were able to regenerate these technology facilities. What happened? It happened that Serbia did not then suffer a major disaster, an economic disaster, but had reserves in the maputa. We listen here every day to how certain people come out on television, because this is a political act, I can't say that in fact it's an act of certain experts, certain people, as you know how to call Minister Skundric, he explained this well in his books, probably you're not from that profession, so you probably can't talk about the weight, who's to blame for what happened. You didn't even provide alternative fuels, but actually you do mention, here's enough mules that can replace natural gas, and that's going to go to the mule. That's what you're saying today. After two days of mentioning, the reserves of that mule are about three days away. I'm asking you, in fact, if you wanted to, if you had to, and you had to provide security for the citizens of Serbia and normal businesses, you had to provide alternative fuels like the mule. I don't understand how certain projectors actually designed certain plants that would only use fuel as a gas. It didn't occur to anyone that it could happen that the gas was gone. But, you see, it did happen anyway. There must be alternative fuels, at least in large cities and in large business centres there must be, because in fact you don't know if at certain times there can be a certain haemataria, because only a professional team of people, you can put it on their minds if there's been some major haemataria and if they weren't too careful to remove that hasharia within certain time limits. Here exclusively, ladies and gentlemen, this was a matter of politicians. This was a big deal that in some ways a great Santa could, Boris Tadic, show how much friends he is with EU countries and how many EU countries actually think of Serbia. And in order for me to call it the social part or the social tragedy that has hit Serbia, to transfer it to another plan, you, as you usually do in pre-election campaigns, are in a mangupic way to raise it to such a level that you can show how important it is, and that it is not DS, probably life in Serbia would stop because we don't have a friend from the EU. But, ladies and gentlemen, you didn't predict anything. You see these excises, how do you think this process that's circular, that's completely going from what you're taking, this is what you're giving, so it's going to go into a circle, how hospitals, vehicles in hospitals, if there's oil or gasoline used for sanitisation, so how in military vehicles, there's in those commercial parts that actually depend directly on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, did you also predict that there's going to come the excise charge process? You didn't, because that's pretty good in your discussion my colleague Lydia explained, so it's going to be one big hit on agriculture again. You've brought them to an empty pocket anyway, and I have to be vulgar, so to speak, to the blind, you've brought those to whom you've not only taken off your skin, but you're trying to get the little meat that's left on those people and you're trying to squeeze it out of them. But no more. You must know, when there is a flood in the peasants, then know that the entire economy, because you see, the entire economy has stopped in Serbia. You can see the price of agricultural products. Who will pay for it, for the peasant must and his built-in price to upgrade in that price of his product, so he will pay again the happy worker who does not work in the factories, will pay again the happy pensioner who is on the edge of his, so to speak, existence, because he supports both his daughter and his son, and his grandchildren through his pension, because they have only so that they can support themselves from this small, tiny and miserable pension. It's actually a blow to an ordinary man. Is that what you've been thinking about? No, it's important to you that you can fill the budget, because it's the fastest thing you can do. For all that is done in Serbia today is coffee, smoke. It would be fine if you were on these two products, but as my colleague said, I don't use either of them, but oil and oil products, you shouldn't have used it at all by filling your budget with excise duties. Understand once again that Serbia has provided what is in it, which you said was provided by two million cubic metres of gas from Hungary, Germany, I must honestly say once again that it is one big colourful lie provided by Boris Tadic. What I also have to mention is, you didn't ask yourself that local self-governments that distribute these energys, so they're actually the biggest culprits because they didn't signal or provide alternative fuels in time, but they were living on laurels -- all of it will be covered by Russia's mother. Here is what I said about this assembly speaker, even the Privatisation and Industry Committee, when Mr Dinkic and Professor Skundric came, when I explained and talked about problems that unfortunately could happen to Serbia. That's because of the importance of that South Stream that should have been signed before. I can't figure out who was obstructing that no agreement was signed a year ago. So we, from here on out, were obstructing Serbia, not obstructing Gazprom or someone from the Russian government. They were supposed to say if it was an adequate signature and if it was an adequate word of Putin to this agreement. Gentlemen, it's too much of us to sign because we don't need to be trusted. We played everything. You played Serbian citizens, you promised in the pre-election campaign towers and cities, you promised them 500,000 seats, and that's it, 500,000 were out of a job. Like, this isn't supposed to be a global crisis. Well, at first I said, ladies and gentlemen, crime and corruption had to sail to the surface, to show that we had nothing to do with the global crisis. The crisis entered this country after six and a half million donations, when it came to this country and when you yellows stole it all. Do you know where those donations are? You don't even know where 11 million euros are, how long it took to rebuild the Banatian Court. These are NIP funds and you stole it. Understand, you have to wonder where the funds are, don't rob the peasants, the workers, and fair intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12419	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12420	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Finance, since the minister is gone, ladies and gentlemen, on Article 3, which speaks of excise duties on oil products, I have submitted an amendment to align excise duties with real life costs and already in force, believing that the increase proposed in this law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act is too great and that it will have a very negative impact on the standard of living of our citizens. The proposed law proposes increasing the excise duty on gasoline from the current 36 to 42 dinars, some six dinars per litre, for diesel fuel is seven dinars per litre, and liquid oil gas is two dinars per litre. And it is also said in an explanation for not accepting this amendment that it does not necessarily mean that the increase in excise duties will necessarily lead to an increase in retail prices. In theory, this could possibly happen, but in practice it will most likely or almost 100% not be true, i.e. an increase in excise duties with the date of adoption of this law will necessarily affect the increase in retail prices. If the price of diesel is currently 54 dinars, the adoption of this law is likely to increase diesel fuel prices to 61 dinars for the time being, and later likely with changes in prices on the world market will be harmonised. It is extremely illogical to explain that the amendment is not accepted because it may not necessarily affect the retail prices of gasoline or oil derivatives. Any increase in excise duties will necessarily affect retail prices and these retail prices will be paid by all Serbian citizens. The reasons for proposing such a law, i.e. changing the level of excise duties, were said by all predecessors during yesterday's and today's debate, so I'm going to repeat just a few basic things. So we are doing all this because we want to unilaterally implement a Stabilisation and Association Agreement or Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, and in return, we have no assistance, nor guarantee that, at any given time, the EU countries will begin to apply this agreement, or that we will be able to make available EU access funds that will replace the damage caused by the elimination of customs duties or the reduction of certain customs duties provided for by such an agreement in our legislation. The greatest damage from the unilateral application of the SAA will suffer wide-ranging layers of the population. Most will be affected by the poorest ones, as the increase in excise duties for oil derivatives will affect almost all people, since it is not a product that belongs to luxury but is used by almost everyone. Of course, this will have far-reaching consequences on the prices of goods in Serbia, because almost every product in Serbia, and at all in every product, transport costs and costs of production affect a certain percentage of fuel prices, through transport costs and through production costs will certainly affect the retail prices of all other goods and services. So, what companies and companies from the European Union will get to export products to Serbia and the state budget will be shorter for customs duties on these products, Serbia's citizens will pay. It is the price of such a politically unreasonable decision in 2009, which is expected to be one of the most difficult years in the last 50 years, due to the financial crisis that has started rocking the world economy since last year, and unfortunately, it is also slowly taking a toll on Serbia's economy. Such an increase in excise duties, a reduction in individual customs rates and the elimination of certain customs rates for import products will most affect Serbia's economy. Unfortunately, neither the government nor the Ministry responds to such a question and the reduction of the damage to certain customs duties does. On the contrary, interest rates on loans are increasing, the credit is getting smaller, the investment is getting smaller, the euro has gone to 93-94 dinars these days, the import lobby dictates the prices of certain products and dictates excise duties on certain products, so, for example, coffee excises are withdrawn, etc. All this is the fruit of an unreasonable policy, which is forecasted to be the world's hardest year in the economy to lift excise duties and open Serbia's full market for import products, and otherwise raises the prices of basic products that will be paid by the poor people of Serbia anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12421	Mr. Momir Markovic, after the amendment, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12422	I am about to defend my predecessor's amendment, because I believe that all these amendments that are related to this part of oil and oil derivatives are in a close relationship and that everything should be adopted. If by any chance we were lucky that our minister was here, then he would adopt them, I suppose, because, as far as I understand it, he understands things, so he would understand that this is only for the benefit of Serbian citizens. What's a little bit behind this, because it says, from 11 to 13 dinars for liquid gas, from 16 dinars for diesel fuel, from 27 to 42 dinars for oil, or for gasoline, it's a little different to look at that part over here. In a year and a few days of oil excise and oil derivatives jumped almost 100%, because at the end of 2007, we had six dinars for liquid and oil gas, and now we have 13 dinars. Since the beginning of 2008, 11 dinars, and now when the government tells us -- we only increase two dinars per litre, then it doesn't turn out so much, but when you look at it for a year, it jumped by liquid and oil gas more than 100%, and for these derivatives somewhere around 100%, then the question arises whether this government can find a way to otherwise make money, or secure money, or everything over the back is just the widest layer of the population. Of course this amendment should be adopted. When I looked at the explanation why the amendment of MP Milan Lapčević is not adopted, the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Momir Markovic and Srboljub Zivanovic. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that when Mr. Markicevic arrives, since he is the last to whom the government has responded this way, why does the amendment not accept him, that you give him 20 minutes, because he will have to do everything I've done to get to that explanation that I haven't gotten to the bottom of it. He says so - given that it is products that have an unelastic demand, and that the proposed amount of excise duty does not necessarily have to affect... and when this proposed amount of excise duty, the increase in excise duty did not necessarily affect the increase in the price of the product to which the excise duty is prescribed? Merchants just add excise to the price, and it's like a retail price, or a wholesale price, they place it on the market, so whoever loves it, go ahead. If the citizens don't have the money, they don't have to use that item. It's government logic. It says -... The amount of which depends primarily on the price policy of economic operators, amounts of excise duties on oil products proposed by the law create conditions for the provision of excise revenue under the 2009 Budget Act. So, I didn't say correctly, this excise duty now proposed by the government is not going to fill this difference that came from the suspension of customs duties on products, on the contrary, it's going to be filled with a hole already in the budget, and this is going to reach out to some new increase in excise duty that we can expect safely in a month or two, because it's the easiest way to reach for excise duty, reaching out for an increase in what the state is taking out of wide layers, because these products are the most affected by them. So this is just an empty story, that the excise will not affect the price increase, we've seen these stories and we've listened here in parliament, that there's an increase in excise duty, there's an increase in VAT tax from about 12-13 to 18, but that's not going to happen anymore. Here, now he's after the VAT again. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that you push the green button in the voting day, wash your conscience and not be burdened anyway by the thin and empty pockets of Serbian citizens. Since some things were discussed here in the morning and before, as a man who spent 25 years in the Oil Industry working and as a man who understood certain things, I must, first of all, explain to the citizens about the storage facility in Banatski Dvor. The warehouse in Banatski Dvor and all the warehouses that work on this principle are so-called "Banatski Dvor". So there's a shrinking oil site that's limited, and every site basically has a gas cap, natural gas, the one we use, from above that creates pressure, sometimes four or five hundred bars. When a gas pipe is pierced, it enters the oil, the pressure is shrinking that oil, and it comes out through the pipe, and it's an active site. When used further, natural gas is pumped to drive that pressure through the pipe to get out and those pumps help a little bit. When oil is extracted, the gas is mostly not touched in these sites, which can sometimes be used as storage for natural gas, for the simple reason that if you draw gas, the pressure will be reduced and the water will in itself, nature itself fills the gaps in the earth’s crust, the water will fill it and then it’s much harder to extract water than keep pressure. What happens to such sites, when they turn into warehouses -- almost nothing down there, only the installation is made, the compressors are made, which, when there's gas, will crush that gas into the warehouse, and when it's gone, will pull that gas out of the warehouse. It's very simple, especially when it comes to inelastic, as you say from the government, consumption. It's about the consumption of natural gas when flying is not used for heating, when in winter it's more used for heating, the industry works etc. And then there's a larger amount. In order to create a normal flow in the pipeline and to meet the needs of the warehouse, a certain amount is extracted and again when there is less consumption, contracts are mainly made, and then the gas is the cheapest, to buy gas all year round, and that gas comes through the pipeline. What's missing is that 22 million, or 11 million. There are 11 million missing for those compressors, and there are about tenm euros missing to fill that warehouse with pressure, so that gas that will stay inside and wait for the next season. As far as the South Stream is concerned, there were some arbitrary things here again. The first question was, is it the South Stream highway? We now have one pipeline that is capacity of about 2.5 billion so-called. normal cubic meters and it's freeway, because next to our country it also supplies Republika Srpska and BiH. The South Stream pipeline, when it enters Serbia, will provide a short supply of Albania, Montenegro, BiH, Croatia, one short Slovenia and Italy, however far it will be, is a highway. Let's not talk about this 2.5 billion cc's, and this is going to be about 18 to 20 billion cc's, as far as I've been able to read. Therefore, the highway is a pipeline, transport costs are charged through the state, and so on is charged for transportation through the country. The consumption of this natural gas for compressors, because every hundred kilometers the compressors, the compressor house, the main measuring-regulatory station, which, say from here, 30 bars of pressure, are being added to 50 bars so that it can function further. We need the South Stream for something else. Right now it has shown us that the gas that passes through Ukraine, Ukraine is turning the valve - the whole of Europe has no gas. When the South Stream passes and when it connects with the pipeline we already have, we'll get after, if there's no gas from Hungary through Ukraine or if it's another way, then there's gas across the South Stream -- households and businesses will always have gas and they'll have that energy security. That's why, gentlemen, don't ever catch that South Stream again. This country needs a drop of water.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12423	Thank you, it was educational. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dragan Todorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Articles 27, 104 and 194. I really think, Mr. Vice President, that you must first of all take care of the dignity of the Assembly. We have tried discreetly to warn the ruling majority that since the start of the afternoon debate at the Serbian Parliament session there is no authorised representative of the government. They promised us they'd be here very soon. We understand that, but here's the minority we need to get to the end of this session, and the minister or other government representatives are gone. Yesterday you sent the Minister of Faith. Come on, we can say, what kind of state we are in, only God can help us, so that's probably why he came, but at least he was. If you're not able to get any of the ministers, send some ficus from the government, put it here and say it - this is a representative. What's the difference between this empty chair or, say, the Ficus of the Government -- big? First, that ficus is probably a little less paid than the minister, but he would represent the government and this debate would make some sense. It really doesn't make sense. Imagine a different situation -- that government representatives come, sit in these front lines, and MPs don't enter the O.R. for some reason, but they announce that they will enter the O.R. at any moment. They sit and say - no, no, no, wait, here come the MPs. So for two full hours we've been discussing here, and the government's representative is gone. I am sure that the government is not interested in what is being said here at the assembly pay phone, and I believe that they are absolutely without purpose to listen to what the MPs are saying, especially given that this debate today and yesterday is taking place in accordance with some solid, correct conditions. They may blow candles on a birthday cake, but you have to tell us -- that favorite ministers are invited to the President of the Republic, today's birthday. Maybe we'd appreciate that. But I guess the one that was supposed to be there, you should have prepared him a piece of his birthday cake in a hurry so he could finish it and come sit down. Mr. Chairman, I warn you now that in the shortest possible time, you tell us when a representative of the government is coming. After that time, I think it's unthinkable for us to continue our session in these and these conditions. What is important for you, as well as for the citizens of Serbia, is that they can see how the assembly is being obstructed. Can you imagine if there's worse obstructions than sitting in an O.R. where there's a bill being discussed that the government has proposed? Any worse obstructions? (President: Time.) I know I've timed out, but we've been waiting here for two hours for a representative of the government - he's gone. That's why I'm warning you again, Mr. Novakovic, as soon as possible, inform the National Assembly when a representative of the government arrives. After that time, I think every debate is pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12425	Thank you. And I've done everything in my power to find out in real real time or short notice when and who comes from the government's representatives, it's in the next five to ten minutes maximum. After that, if there are no government representatives, I will interrupt this session. Are you satisfied with the answer? Yes, it is. ) Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12426	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be normal for us to discuss the Excise Act to be a representative of the Government who is the Minister of Trade, that this is his matter, but here is Mr. Todorovic, who has advertised and we see that there is no Minister of Trade here, and we would have to ask him very important questions and get valid answers, and to discuss some things. Since things aren't the way they're supposed to be, we had yesterday, when we discussed the Tax Act on the property of the Minister of Faith. Can anyone explain what a minister of faith has to do with the property tax law? The day before yesterday, when we were discussing customs tariffs, the Minister for Environmental Protection. I guess tomorrow we'll have an authorised representative of the Minister of Sports Government. That's just how it goes after each other. But the essence of the amendment submitted by my colleague Miroslav Petkovic, as well as the essence of the previous amendments spoken by the MPs, is to send a clear message -- don't drag your hands into the pockets of our citizens, stop that. The citizens no longer have the money to pay for it, the things you do, but since this law, as well as a series of laws, has some history, some of its own landing events, let's go in order. What led to this? What led to you dragging your hands into citizens' pockets? The first thing, the budget you've put in for a 50-billion deficit. We waited 40 days, warned you, asked where the budget was and what about the budget. Then we found out that the budget actually brought us the IMF. Then you, as you like to call yourself, the responsible coalition, the responsible social government, the migration and the burazer budget, and once the vice president this much, his cabinet, the other cabinet so much, so one minister travels every day, so the other minister travels every third day, one third of the budget goes to travel expenses, work contracts and various things. We told you all this when we discussed the budget before and during the budget rebalancing, and we warned about all these things. By the way, when this government started, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic started with a very strong story, 7% of gross national income growing, when the global economic crisis knocked on the door, for the first few days we had insurmountable statements from certain state officials that the global economic crisis would bring us good. Who did the crisis work out for? As it is, when that door was open, it was said of 3.5% of the gross national product. And as that crisis got more and more through, it came to 1%, and when the crisis came in, and that's March and April, then I think we're going to get into something that's below zero. That's the way it is, but you didn't just stop at it. So, your hand-to-hands-to-the-scenes is the most visible by simple application of the Transition Trade Agreement. So when you saw that there would be an even greater deficit in the budget, and it's being operated by a figure of between 250 and 300 million euros, then you just came up with this brilliant idea -- let's increase the excise, let's increase this, let's take all of these people that can be taken, to replace the loss in the budget, given your genius move -- one-sided application of the transitional trade agreement. So, we can't take anything to Europe, but that's why without customs, we're going to import everything. We come to the question - what will happen to our agriculture, to our economy? A series of questions and we've been saying all these things. So, another question, since we're discussing these laws -- where's the finance minister? He's been gone for days in the Assembly. We hear he's on his way. He went to the IMF headquarters. Let's see why he went to IMF headquarters. He went to get the rebalancing. So say it. When you make a budget like that, when someone makes you another budget, that's why you get a month's rebalance. It should be reminded at this point of time of some other things that happened in April and May, the first ten days of May and all April. So, what were you talking about back then? Pensions 70% of the average salary, free shares of 1,000 euros, 200,000 new jobs. A caring government and responsible to every citizen and every individual. Then you signed an extended fact of a general collective contract. I asked you nicely, that's where the finance minister sat, given the expanded fact and collective agreements, clearly and loudly -- do you have the money to apply this extended fact of collective agreement? She says no. I'm saying, why did you sign? He says - it sounds nice, it sounds wonderful. What's an epilogue of that? The epilogue in Serbia is the beginning of strikes, one general dissatisfaction, and that is not good in Serbia. What are these people doing under tents here across from the presidency building for a month and a half? They're flying? Only they don't swim at -10 and -12. It's the effect of your government, your responsible government. Then when we warn you of some things, either there are no answers, or then there starts to be harsh application, haughtiness in the government, violation of basic laws, disrespect for the dignity of the National Assembly. When the story opens and tightens, and when it comes to the right topics, then the MPs of the opposition are accused of obstructing the work of the National Assembly. It won't be like that. You're making obstructions your own irresponsibleness. Every day with such a government and such a ruling majority is a lost day for Serbia. Every month is a disaster. Do you think in March and April you'll be paying medical wages, education, the military, the police? Would you like to increase your excise duty again? Could the oil excise be 100 dinars? Is that how you think you're replacing that loss? It's high time for one of these irresponsible governments to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12427	Since I have no information whether or not a representative of the government will come, and as I promised, it's about ten minutes past, I'm setting a 30-minute break. We'll continue at 17.55 p.m. If not then, I'll see you tomorrow. [[After break – 18:00]] Since Minister Oliver Dulic is present, we continue our work after the amendment break to Article 3, which was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Is anyone else answering for the word after Petkovic's amendment? Here you go, Mr. Christin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, given that someone from the government has come, I mean the Minister, I welcome the Minister of Ecology and I am glad that you are here, I hope that you will actively participate in the work, what we, as MPs, have proposed, repairs based on this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. What could have been expected after the adoption of that budget is this set of proposals for a law where we have seven points: the draft law on amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Tax, the re-addition of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, the re-receivement from citizens, and especially from farmers, when I explain the famous Article 3, and then we have a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, again it is about taking from citizens, and a proposal for a law on temporary exemption from the taxation of taxes on the income of citizens of certain types of income, and a bill on amendments to the Law on the contribution to compulsory social security, and a bill on amendments to the Law on amendments to the Law on PIO. In this Article, the word for oil derivatives, point 2) is required to increase from 16.66 to 26 excise duties on diesel. Unfortunately, again my findings, the peasants screwed up. Let's just go back to 2008, July 12th, and see what the fuel price was then. Diesel was then, on July 12, 2008, 98,40 dinars, somehow succeeded in this economic crisis, caused by your US friends, and Eurodizell was at the time 108 dinars. Now it is diesel that went down quite a bit, but the farmer got an increase in the cost of artificial fertilizer, repromaterials, seed prices, the price of plant protection or chemistry, as the peasants say, to destroy the weeds on those surfaces that they sow with torment. Why did I take an accent on the farmers? First, I'd like to give some of my discussion on this Excise Act. The point of the excise story isn't who's counting it, it's who's in the middle of the pay. The problem with the billing is a matter of state authorities, primarily the tax administration, which is mostly inefficient, but it's a different story. Here are the abuses and evasions of tax obligations literally unlimited, especially when the competent ministries start to consider the story - what is diesel fuel. There are countless machinations of known and unknown public around this story. Accise is a tool for raising money for the budget and is a very sensitive category. I repeat, excise is a tool to raise money for the budget and a very sensitive category. This applies particularly, twice the repetition, to the citizens of Serbia, so that they know. The increase in excise duties in this case to all kinds of diesel fuel, in any case, is a blow to the final consumers. The question arises - who are the end consumers in this country who will fill the budget and who are costing each increase in the price of all kinds of diesel fuel the most? These are, above all, the poorest layers of the population in this country. He's dealing, normally, with the peasants. Every collection of elements, the cost of costing any product, in this case all kinds of diesel fuel, which means from 16.66 to 26 dinars per litre, is a break of the irrationality of the state apparatus to the poorest layer of the population. Such behaviour increases the rate of excise duty directly stimulates inflation. Also inflation directly reduces economic growth and re-opens Pandora's hyperinflation box. The question is, in times like this, does the state want to help the economy and its citizens or does it want to fill its budget and service an irrational state apparatus? It's obvious she's not interested in citizens, and it's the poorest ones, and the economy isn't so much. The answer's clear, you'll pay, so what's it cost? Cheaper and better for the state and local self-government to consider using natural resources, since it's already sold out anyway. Next is probably the VAT increase, don't give God from 18 to 118%. Then a tax will be introduced to look at state officials at rates, e.g. If you're looking at the Prime Minister on TV, he pays every taxpayer a minute 500 dinars, etc. The budget must be full so that the government and the immodest ministry of peace can bow the harrass. Now I'm going to thank you, Mr. Minister, for talking on your cell phone, and I'm going to explain how you from one municipality alone could have filled the budget. It's about my story about the lease of state agricultural land and Mr. Petar Jojic, Srboljub Zivanovic of the SRS parliamentary group. I got from the Ministry of Agriculture names and last name and name of the entities who paid the rent for 2008. Based on the collected documentation from the municipality of Zrenjanin, on 2,015 pages, the 2008 lease in the municipality of Zrenjanin was bid at 9,836 hectares and 25 acres. Based on that bidding, the municipalities were to receive 635,678,856 dinars. From what I got, again from the municipality, based on this paperwork, it says that the Zrenjanin municipality picked up 62 million dinars, and it took 635. I'm not talking about 2007, I'm talking about 2008. Out of that 62 million in the budget, to a special giro-account, it goes 25 million. These are special means of purpose. I got 82 on 2,015 pages from the Ministry of Agriculture, out of the large number of people who bid to rent agricultural land in 2008, 82 of them are listed here. The largest number of those who haven't paid, there are a dozen, are just those who have come or come with an agrarian mafia, such as Todorovic, who bought the Diamond, an oil factory in Zrenjanin, whose task is to buy 250,000 ha. When I collected all of what the Ministry of Agriculture delivered to me, I circled the number, all 75 million was collected in 2008, and it took 635 million. Unfortunately, there's no finance minister here, unfortunately there's no Ubpok, there's no one here, unfortunately there's no police minister, Mr. Dacic, so they'll comb and see where about 550 million dinars were lost in the Zrenjanin municipality alone from renting agricultural state land. Normally, when you have something like this in front of you, when you bring something out in front of this tall house, when Serbian citizens hear this, I hope that one of you will pass it along, and here I am talking for two months, this is what I was saying in November 2008, in December 2008 about these machinations. Mr. Petar Jojic spoke as much as I, Srboljub Zivanovic as I do, all those who deal with agriculture and follow this activity, but I see that no one reacts. As a result, the agriculture minister decides that only a professional peasant will receive subsidies in 2009. I wish Minister Dragin was here, Dr. Sasha Dragin, and to explain to me what the wording is - a professional peasant? The one that only deals with agriculture. What about those people who have lost their jobs, living in the country, father and mother, grandmother, grandfather of the deceased, leaving them the land, and that's their only source of income? According to him, they can't get subsidies anymore. It's such a mistake and the finding of a minister, that I'll be persistent about this pay phone until it comes or finds the first of the laws of the Ministry of Agriculture, to explain it to me. Tobacco producers are left without a subsidy. What should we talk about who owns a cow farm? Normally, there's a product, when you grow cows you have milk, they see that in the country they have rounded agricultural production. They've got a tractor. That tractor's wasting diesel. With this increase you will make even more cost to that agricultural producer, and the price of milk goes down. Again thanks to factories dealing with the final product i.e. making cream, cheese, sour milk, pasteurized milk. I can't help but mention here those who have, and we have lots of empty cattle in Serbia now, what little is left, and it deals with rounded agricultural production, it produces corn, it produces wheat, it produces barley. He uses fuel, uses diesel. Again, by increasing the excise on diesel from 16.66 to 26 dinars, you bring the peasants into an even harder position. I don't know if Dr Dragin was able to walk around a little bit with the Athars and central Serbia, and the northern part of Serbia, Vojvodina, to see that there is still about 40% of unbreakable land. The peasant is on the verge of existence. There's no money left to spare. It's terrible to have someone from the nursing home asking if you can lend him 20 liters of oil, so at least what's urgent for him to do in the spring, which I have to do at the end of March so he can do it. It's a disaster. This is the thinking of a government, the thinking of a finance minister, the thinking of a minister of agriculture can no longer be done. The peasant can't take this anymore, and he can't take it, because you're in no condition to get in the way of that agrarian mafia or the agricultural mafia. I apologize to these poor peasants who manage to take a hectare in the lease of state agricultural land, but those who take hundreds of acres, not to say thousands, and not to pay a dinar. Where is this guarantee that the Ministry of Agriculture had to take from anyone who bid the country and now let it go? Only from the Zrenjanin municipality would you have an extra 550 million, because it's all up to 75 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12430	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12431	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as early as the debate on the budget for this year, we have pointed to its fundamental shortcomings, and above all, it is a deficit, a reduction in subsidies to agriculture and businesses, a lack of investment and complete unreality, i.e. the government's excessive optimism in budget revenue projections. Because of this, such a budget is unsustainable and it is a source of instability, uncertainty for the entire economy this year. This proposal is a direct consequence of this budget. The problem is that the biggest revenue of this budget is based on VAT revenue, at a level of 338 billion dinars, which is 10% growth compared to the previous year. If we take into account movements in our economy, not only in our economy but also in the world economy, where we see that production decreases, practically all production, practically all exports, in this way and net imports, we think, what we said when the budget was debated, that these sources of income are absolutely unrealistic. I'll say a few examples where we'll see it's unrealistic. The price of steel has fallen more than twice. The price of oil fell from $140 for a barrel to about $40, and it is expected to be a record minimum this year in the last ten years, maybe even $25 for a barrel. Of course, the prices of corn and cereal are also twice as low as last year. When prices fall then the VAT drop is multiple. I really don't see any place in these projections that there will be VAT growth, and I'm sure what the governor of the National Bank of Serbia said will happen, that there will have to be budget rebalances, but not at the end of the year, but probably in the first quarter, if not earlier. In addition, we have this insane decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia on a unilateral application of the trade agreement with the EU, which will result in a direct loss of customs by nearly 300m euros next year. Considering all these aspects, what the government is going to do. It will increase the burdens, increase the receipt of the excise budget by 14 billion dinars, and 15%, respectively, compared to last year. What does that mean? Practically, the pressure on citizens and businesses is increasing, and this directly affects the decline in living standards and competitiveness. The level of excise duty on oil derivatives directly affects the Serbian economy and its competitiveness. This amendment, apart from protecting citizens' interests, deals primarily with the protection of economy and agriculture as well. Why did I only suggest this increase? Because that way there wouldn't be any growth. I asked to increase the excise on motor gasoline from 27.5 to 35 dinars, for diesel fuel from 16.66 to 21 and for liquid gas from 11 to 12 dinars. That's an increase of about 20 percent. But at this point, citizens wouldn't absolutely feel it because that level of excise duty has already been achieved with the prices that are on the market today. If this amendment is not adopted, I must say, Serbia will finally, I will repeat what I have been saying with the budget debate, become a European leader at the participation of excises in the price of oil derivatives in Europe. Although my very respected Madam Minister tried to deny me that it is not true that we have the largest share of excise duties in Europe, I have checked all that data and I am again behind the fact that the Republic of Serbia today has the largest share of excise duties in Europe in the price of oil derivatives. Today is no longer 44%, as I was saying, no, because then the price was 77 dinars per litre, today is 72.13 dinars. With one simple math, if we subtract VAT, we have a price and excise duty of 61.12 dinars per litre. According to the current Excise Act, the excise duty on motor gasoline is 35.91 dinar per litre. Taking into account this data, it is then evident that the excise duty is participating in the total price prior to taxation with 58.7%, while the cost of production of that in the refinery is 36.3%, the turnover is 5%, a total of 41.3, and in unchanged other conditions, if not, the excise duty will take place in the next period in the price of oil derivatives with 61%. This much participation of excise duties in the price is also uncompetitive for the EU's most developed countries. There's no problem here at the finance minister or the secretary of state, they've done their part of the job correctly and professionally. Here is the problem of the general concept of this government, which is only drawn up to satisfy this coalition agreement that they made when they came together. Also, I used the European Commission's "Market Observers" from November and December this year and I came to all this data for all countries, from the Czech Republic and Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Greece, Cyprus, Romania and the countries in the environment, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would much prefer if we were European export records, productivity, investment, new jobs, not public spending. I will repeat once again that this is the most expensive government and the largest government in Europe. Of course, with oil prices like this many traffic and transport companies will lose the battle of their competitors from the region, and in this way we will have a big problem with jobs. Although the government is in favour of keeping jobs, I will repeat once again that this increase in excise duties on oil derivatives is directly contrary to any desire to boost the competitiveness of the Serbian economy. Of course, there's no need to talk about diesel excises. They increase even more than gasoline. That might make some sense if we here had European quality, i.e. to meet Euro Five standards. But our diesel is the most invaluable in the whole region and its approximation of the diesel to the price of gasoline is very, very dangerous. In two years, when NIS produces the euro five, it will be logical for the state and other owner of Gazprom to raise the price, because it has increased quality, so what are we going to say? That he's using his monopoly position on the market or we're going to think of this really the biggest increase in excise duty on oil derivatives. I think there's an even bigger problem in agriculture. It's the height of the excise on diesel. It has another negative effect, which is - the price of fuelD 2 is approaching the price of the highest quality diesel. Now the Serbian peasant is forced to buy a 54.63 dinar set of diesel. He also receives, according to this new budget, less subsidies than last year. So we have an increase in the price of diesel, and on the other hand, the farmer has fewer subsidies and there are no provisions than the release of a bar of excise duties and VAT for those involved in agricultural production. I think it would be one measure that could at least ease this imposition on farmers, but unfortunately if we take that the price of the euro is 58.23 dinar, the price of D2 diesel for registered agricultural households should not exceed 40 dinars. That's what a peasant could pay today. This way, unfortunately, I say, is totally hitting on Serbian agriculture, and if the price were lower, if the excise duties were less, it would be a direct support for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This way, by developing agriculture, we reduce costs for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia because we allow them to get cheaper agricultural products. Of course, there is one excuse, in my explanation I saw that part of the excise revenue goes to fund the maintenance of the travel network through the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia". That's really not true. In last year, excise revenues on oil derivatives amounted to 61 billion dinars or about 700m euros. Only 13% of the excise duties charged are directly directed at covering the costs of the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia". Where does the rest of the fuel excise revenue go? Of course, it goes into public consumption and to fill this deficit. Unfortunately, we know all the problems facing "The Ways of Serbia" these days and should not be repeated, so the justification that part of this will be directed towards them is only propaganda. I just need to add one piece of information. At a time when everyone was reducing excises, at the time of the biggest oil spikes on the market, our government didn't do it. I just have to say, when the oil went up, the Slovenians cut the excise duties, in August, when the oil price was the highest, by 4.1 euros or 11%, and also by other states, only our country did not reduce excise duties back then. We see now that it has made the lives of all Serbian citizens worse. Just so much for the socially responsible government. I would add another very important thing that has been mentioned today in the press, this is a question that the unions have asked the leadership of the flag and the Fiat. Once again, I will repeat the very principled view of the DSS that "Fiat" is welcome in Serbia and will always be welcome, but on the same conditions as all European or Western, or eastern investors come. And this way, what happens? It has been said of billions, promises have been made, I am very sorry for the citizens of Kragujevac, there has been talk of increasing the production of the 10 flag, or as they have now called it "full". I just have to say that these products are "full" that will increase from four to five thousand or six, that it's a 2004 contract, from the time the government was in power with Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. Then, after 12 years of co-operation, we signed agreements on resolving the problem of an old 42m-euro debt, 30 million of which were written off, while the remaining 12 million were returned on the basis of the sale of related flag companies, but with state guarantees. At that time, it was agreed with the Fiat to start a "punta" assembly in the Kragujevka plants, flag 10, requiring the purchase of equipment for the most modern car production. The government then approved 15m-euro funds to buy this modern equipment for technological equipment according to Fiat's standards and invest. The plan was to produce about 16,000 "full" annually in Kragujevac as early as 2004, which means. In doing so, I have to say, the flag was not privatized, it was still state-owned. Based on the arrangement at the time and the very successful beginning of the production of "flag 10" or "punta" there was also an interest in General Motors for the flag. It was one of the breaking events in the flag, a decision was made to start in early 2009, so now, the conclusion of a brand-new "burning" model begins. At that time, the Serbian government also issued an approval for the start of imports of oppel astres without customs, three to five thousand cars. After that, the pre-election campaign has seen this hyperproduction of the promise -- tens of thousands of jobs, 700m euros entering Kragujevac, all co-operatives will get millions of euros to work. Unfortunately, nothing happened. In December, the Deputy Prime Minister tells us to wait for the letter from the Vice President of the Fiat, which will tell us what will be in the future. We're waiting for the letter from the Vice President of the Fiat. The letter didn't come to this day. What's going on? Here today, at the big bells of the Ministry of Economy, the representatives of the government were in the flag yesterday and are announcing an increase in the production of the "punta" produced in the flag since 2004 or 2005. Not a single word about when the 200m-euro founding capital of the Fiat will come, not a word the car will produce, not a word about whether there is a business plan. I'm asking the question again, I'm going to ask this every time I go out for a pay phone, let's see what we can do about the business plan. I talk to ministers in the government, they get baptized, no one knows which car to produce, no one knows what to do, when to return the investment. There's no bank guarantee to do the job, and you've closed the flag line. Here, just so I'm saying, this government doesn't have any concept when it comes to economics and that we're the only country that doesn't have a crisis-out programme yet. They say, "Let's work on the program." As all other countries implement the programme, we still don't have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12432	Anyone else by this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12433	Mr. Novakovic, I used to raise my hand, but when you started punishing me for the provisions of the Constitution I read, then I have to answer anonymously. But the sun warmed me today, now you're the chairman, there's no lady there, they've got something against me. Mr Popovic tried to explain something, about his story comes down to it, and if the excise would increase by 20%, it would be much less than what the government is proposing. It would likely increase revenues based on excise duties, and there would be no threat of both household and economy. But I have to draw attention to you, because I used to burn myself on these topics, any price change, regardless of the structure of that price, and whether any of these price parameters have changed in the price structure, causes prices to rise to a little bit, how that direct influence has, so has the indirect. It's expressed in monitoring prices for a little bit, through a category called ponder. Every change in energy is inescapable to raise prices to a little bit. If we can expect prices to rise slightly, when it comes to this law, because it directly affects the increase in the nominal amount of excise duty, and given the fact that this raw oil market is quite unstable, that it is possible to increase significantly, then fuel, as energy, given these "weights" that it draws, can cause a far higher price increase at the same time, while in 2009, there will be a policy of freezing wages. Once upon a time, when some people had a little bit of an understanding in the economy, then there was talk of pay being able to grow, but to follow productivity, etc. Now there's no such thing, now says freeze, reduction, reduction. Then we have two diametrically contradictory processes: a rise in prices to a small and real profit drop. In such conditions, above all, the poorest suffer in such conditions those who cannot provide lasting resources, means socially endangered categories. Someone's gonna say, "You don't have to drive a car." That may be an excuse, but according to the system, "sit doesn't trust the hungry." I need to draw attention to some other laws that are on the agenda of this session today, where certain categories and individual situations are being released from tax obligations, and something that is income. Then it's really an enigma if there's room for any normal economic policy. A real decline is expected, both nominal and real profit drop, and is expected in a unstable energy market likely to increase prices. What message do I need to give to the citizens? What message should we give to those to whom diesel fuel is a condition for carrying out agriculture and any other economic activity? A few days ago, it was on TV, when someone announced that there might be an increase in VAT rates, so they asked a man who was doing business -- what does that mean specifically in his work, and he said, "I have to go over it to the ultimate buyer of my products." Why? Probably because there are no internal reserves. Think about how an absolute monopolies would behave in this situation. We even have that category. There's no competition, there's so much power, so much strength, so much market presence, so much market take, it doesn't have real competition. He'll dictate. For him, any change in the retail price of an oil derivative will be an excuse to build its price, and then the government will say we all have to tighten the belt. Now explain one situation to me, how will the four-member family belt, where two members or only one member work, and let him receive above average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, how can he settle his basic needs? If these are the basic needs, let's take what's the cost of housing, with infrastructure, take a look at your bills, water, electricity, heating, garbage, environmental tax, air tax, life tax, fees for this, fees for what, tuition, think about what message we need to give the citizens here -- where to find a place to provide first to first? I can't give them a message, I don't have that formula. The government has to formulate, find the formula that one who works the metal complex, who has that average profit, and you know by statistics how much it is in the metal complex, will provide for his four-member family for a month's life. Based on these incomes, taking all these factors, changes in these tax regulations, which will inevitably be imposed on individuals. Consider, too, the tax regulations that provide for certain sanctions for lateness, lateness, not to talk about evasion. It's a special category. Simply, when you propose a law like this, you have to find a very high-quality and convincing explanation, which can be a lesson for all citizens how, on the basis of average incomes, to organize their lives in a month. Please bypass the Belgrade circle of two. Go around what they do in foreign companies, those who work at embassies, diplomatic and consular offices, etc. Take the periphery of Belgrade and take any other place in the Republic of Serbia. You have statistics from Black Grass, Novi Sad to Belgrade, and by work, according to the nomenclature, what is the average profit, how much it covers, how many employees there are, take all of this into account and explain how people can secure their home budget for a month. I would particularly appreciate you coming out here, so as at the time of Zelenović or Mirko Marjanović, the small board, the chalk, so it's said, this is income, this is expenses, this remains, this can be covered, this cannot be covered, this is where credit is taken under these conditions, these conditions, etc., give a survival manual. Maybe not that way, but all other EU countries, and you're running headlessly towards the EU, then act a little like them there. They have some responsibility to their citizens. Those in Germany who are in power, they realized that they were obliged to provide a more quality life on the territory of the Republic of Germany. They are generally interested in Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo and Metohija, Vojvodina, Bulgaria etc. Why? The citizens of Germany voted for them, gave them the right to exercise power for four years in the name of them, and to provide them with a normal life. Let's act a little European and democratic, as I've explained to you about what it looks like. No, you're gonna talk to us here, here's 700 million, here's this. Could someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia tell us if there are EU access funds. There's paper on it. And in fact? And how many years are you going to take from these access funds? Let's do it like this: when? When? When she gives birth to grapes on vervain. Why would they give you when they have a hole in their budgets? Mr. Ilic, Germany and France, past the standards they prescribed in Mastricht, have a deficit budget financing of more than 5% of gross social product. They don't care at all about their agreed standard of about three. They don't care about your standards. I told you, there is no Natasha Vukkovic, she led the delegation, we were in the Commission for European Integrations of the French National Assembly. Open people say, we created this committee to control what is done there in Brussels and Strasbourg when these regulations are passed. We in France apply what suits us, what doesn't suit us doesn't exist for us, we don't care at all. The Irish say so, though they say of Mladjan Dinkic - who said we were a miracle, aman. They boasted that they had raised the level of education 10 years ago, the level of education, and last year or before, they were boasting that for the first time in history they had begun to direct their assembly and session of Senates. People are giving us a lecture on democracy, someone who's been coughing for us for 30-50 years. Yeah, Dulic, you let Sonja Licht go, you're her failed investment. Everything she financed, it failed. You can smile, smile, go to Smederevska Palanka, the Great Plane, go from Bubanj Potok to there, come to the first populated place, come into the house of some host and smile nice, you know how glad he'll be, so he'll eat you with his teeth. You're talking about how nice, how nice, everything's about to start. They've been waiting for those 6.5 billion since October 5, 2000. They're waiting. When billions come from abroad it's 6.5, when you talk about what's been done to the Federal Assembly, then Batic says two futters and three curtains, and Micunovic makes a special fund for the reconstruction of the Federal Assembly building and I don't want to talk about millions, I said I won't. Ask Mladjan Dinkic, he sent the financial police who determined everything, not me. Agree your stories. The biggest disgrace in Western Europe and America is that the president of the state, the Prime Minister, a politician, lies, looks voters in the eyes and lies to them. That can happen, Mr. Novakovic, just once. Do you know why? Because it's his first and last and no one will ever vote for him again. They're punishing. But you know why they're punishing? Because it's mostly private property, so every stupid government guesses the property of the citizens as the owner. Here at our swan song, you want to join in health care at G17, you want to join this party here, you want to join this party. We'll never get out of the social crisis if that's what you're thinking. Never, remember. That's why we bear the consequences of our voice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12434	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12435	There is no time left, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but it could not go as a question through the Rules of Procedure, and I appeal to the article. 225 and 226. You can't answer that question, Mr. Dullich. I refer to the Ministry of Economy, i.e. Mladjan Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and ask for an answer as soon as possible. Namely, a few days ago, when we started the debate and when, together with you, it was designated as a representative of the government one of the flying ministers of Verica Kalanovic, she laughed at my question, and she answered with impatience when, concerned about the fate of the Kragujevac flag and workers, Mr Popovic spoke earlier, with the right to ask us whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia immediately owned a business plan for Fiat cars, a newly formed, newly formed factory in Kragujevac, since my fear is now confirmed by trade unions from Kragujevac, and President of the Independent Union, employed. It is seen to be a fraud of the century, not decades but centuries, that whole story of Boris Tadic, and Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic, and above all Veroljub Stevanović and his friend Neboja Zdravkovic. In the Zastava car factory, you heard a statement from Fiat officials produced by no new Fiat model. What was called flag 10, and otherwise it wasn't produced to that end from the flag line, it was done so. deconservation of already finished Punto cars coming to Kragujevac, now if production is to be increased production of what was called Zastava 10 i.e. Punto. It's a classic Fiat vehicle that's already being manufactured and what's worst of all, Mr. Dulic, we've defined as state resources, and incentive funds and the town of Kragujevac, through liberating infrastructure measures, the state for the Kragujevac-Batočina road, i.e. Lapovo, for the bypass and everything we need to do, and we don't have any guarantee from Fiat for 200 million. Here, let them come and get 200 million, and then let's see if that's a deal that makes any sense. This way there is no guarantee for a single euro, and we've been talking about two months before the campaign, especially in the last few days, and I'm convinced that it's too much for the citizens to decide more than the SAA on 11 May in the elections for your so-called. The list of ZES. So, it's a big con, the workers are scrambling, not just the workers, but the engineers and all the people who are employed in the flag, because the tests they've got to handle these days are like pilot tests for the most modern equipment in airplanes. I ask for an urgent answer and for Mr. Radojevic to come before us before the Committee on Industry and Resolute Minister and Director of Car Factory. (President: Time.) I'm finishing up, Mr. Novakovic. You know very well, Mr. Novakovic, as former president of the Privatisation Committee, that Mr. Radojevic knew he was coming to speak to us imaginaryly, when no one knew who he would be and when he would be a strategic partner of the flag, that we would be presented with a future new model. Please, let it come to the National Assembly as soon as possible, so that the entire public knows, especially the employees and all the Kragujevci, and the citizens of Serbia, and you will see that it was a big fraud. I'm sorry I timed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12436	The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12437	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the NS, I have submitted an amendment that is actually a correction, I don't know why it had to be a correction, but it's mostly about how we want to respond to the government's legal proposal, where the excise duties on oil products are increasing, and for all types of motor gasoline from 27.50 to 42 dinars, which is an increase of 52%, all kinds of diesel fuel from 16.66 to 26 dinars, which is an increase of 60% and liquid gas for motor vehicles, where the increase is 30%. You know, this has already become very symptomatic, Mr. Minister, that since this government started with the "happiness" of Serbian citizens, prices have not increased, which the NS would consider to be normal for that percentage of inflation, except that public enterprises at the local level of government regulations have been imposed, whether that is 6,7.8 or 9%, the government is about 50% lower than 50%. What does this increase in excise duty mean? This means that oil derivatives for the amount or difference of excise duty, as far as it was and as far as it's supposed to be, I realize that that's how much fuel they're going to collect, that's about 15-16 dinars. If we are talking about the effects of the global global economic and financial crisis and that they may not yet have clapped Serbia, I wonder if the government wants this proposal to increase excise duties, so to speak, to speed up this financial collapse. So, we were lucky that the price of barrels of oil on the world market, we think, and the citizens of Serbia are probably going to this day, or until this law is passed, if you succeed in adopting it, or increasing these excise duties, that we were lucky that the price of oil on the world market has fallen, but there is the Government that what the world market can do for us with this policy price on a global scale, if that would be favourable to us, there is the Government of the Republic of Serbia that will prevent it. To tell the truth, in the corrections of the amendments, and we gave an increase of these excise duties, but from 27.50 to 28, from 16.66 to 70, so, when it comes to all kinds of diesel fuel, and my colleague Zlata Đerić, who will come out afterwards, you will see that the effects of such an increase in excise duties on oil derivatives are not small, i.e. that the amount of money that will be poured into the budget is not small. This is what I think it's about, with so many percentages of excise increases, about filling the budget blindly. I could understand, as a national MP and as a citizen, that the government had come before the citizens of Serbia, what we were looking for in September from the opposition, when it came to raising the savings role guaranteed by the state, so we were ridiculed that we were narrators, so 50,000 euros came only a new year ago, when citizens had already raised 500 or 600m euros. I'm saying, I understand that this is where the prime minister, the minister's finance, has been here for 15 days fighting us over the budget, and on 16 days, he says we don't know anything, that all of this is going to be handled by Harry Potter. This way of filling the budget, as you predicted, can only be solved by Harry Potter or Mandrake, that's the magician, if you know who I'm talking about. So I would understand that the prime minister came and explained what economic policy it is, what moves the government wants to take to ease the effects of this financial and world crisis, so if among other things it is one of the solutions to increase these excise duties, we all accept it together. I remember, and I hope you, Mr. Minister, remember from the textbook, there was some kind of NEP policy in the Soviet Union, so a new economic policy. It seems to me that this government has a TEP policy, it's a secret economic policy, because for this policy, or parameters, the proposals the government thinks are taking to alleviate the economic crisis we don't know. But you know what they say in southern Serbia, in Leskovac -- they're going to fight. Maybe you'll fill the budget, but the citizens will fight. So I can't really understand, maybe my economic level of knowledge is low, nothing is disputed, maybe I'm a classic representative of most Serbian citizens, come out Mr. Minister and explain to us, or to the citizens of Serbia, when the barrel of oil has never been cheaper in the past year, and now we need the prices of gasoline, oil derivatives to increase and explain it to the citizens. And that it only applies to the price of gasoline and diesel, so let's say we survived, let's make sure he drives who he has. An increase in these excise duties means an increase in the price of a series of products, a chain of purchases. We've had, in recent days, read if it's true, a few good news, that some companies have begun to lower their prices, I mean yogurt, milk. What's left of them now when you raise these excises, when you raise these prices, rather than get those prices back to the previous level, or they increase them even more, and that's how we make the chain of these purchases, and we go to inflation that we don't know about next year and how it's going to end. Especially when we see how today's governor of the NBS defends the course of the dinar, where it is practically within the last month, if he trusts the media and professional people, somewhere around 800m euros spent, sold on the market to save the course of the euro, and as he is saved, we see, that is, the course of the dinar, thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Therefore, it would be my turn, because from the NS, Mr. Dulic, we respect you, most honestly I say to you, as brother of the equals, as president of the assembly you recently had one statement about how you were running the assembly, we agree, you were a very tolerant and correct man, and it would be correct now or to say honestly here, they sent me here, the president celebrates my birthday, I fell off the team right now, I came out here, you come out here honestly and say, that we wouldn't respect you or planted trees. As far as I know some noble fruit, such as Chacan beauty, plums are planted in autumn or spring, we plant something in winter, let's plant it all, but then come out so we don't play hide-and-seek in front of the citizens, it's still the National Assembly. Is it normal, in my opinion, to respect Mr. Ilic, you know well, Mr. Dulic, that I honestly speak of you as a man, to come to the Minister of Finance or to declare that, Mr. Ilic, the State Secretary, who is obviously an economic expert, has agreed with his policy or not, to empower him, I don't know by the Rules of Procedure whether we can, declare that a man is coming out and to answer the questions that MPs are asking, which is in the interest of the general public and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12438	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, by supporting the amendment of counterpart Miroslav Markevic, and on behalf of New Serbia, I am obliged to say some of the information that led us to deliver this amendment, but before I bring it out, I must say that this whole situation is a bit of a reminder of that joke about the talks of two prime ministers, Prime Minister Japan and the prime minister of Serbia. In fact, the prime minister of Japan, listening to the Serbian prime minister's resources Serbia has, said, "God, if I had such resources, in view of Vojvodina first of all, I would feed through three seasons the whole world." That's what the Serbian prime minister says: "If I had the resources of Japan, I'd spend it for one season." We seem to be conducting it consistently. What is important in this amendment, which I wanted to tell you and what attention should be paid to why this amendment has been submitted, is that that minimal increase, above all, I mean diesel fuel, which we have proposed to increase excise duty from 16 dinars and 66 pairs to just 17 dinars, just for 34 pairs. What is the basis and what does it say? The Vojvodina in its seven districts has over a million and 780,000 ha of arable land. Of which 52% is the highest quality black girl. One farmer, on average processing a hectare of land, spends about 80 liters of oil. So far, excise duties, i.e. from excise duties, have cost more than 23 billion in the name of 142.5 million liters of oil spent in this way. If only 34 pairs would increase this excise, that figure would reach nearly 30 billion. Is it a bit of a duke's pair? A fine income and indeed those who have brought the burden of all possible crises so far, those who have so far consistently pulled the state out at the most difficult times and have always been the subject of every political campaign that, when the moment is over, is largely over for them, should not bear the greatest burden of this crisis. They don't have it from where. If such an agrarian policy is repeated as it was this year with the price of corn, the peasant will not fail, he will feed himself, the Serb peasant can survive, but will no longer want to be deceived, will not allow to pull this crisis alone. Mr. Krstin told us about the municipality of Zrenjanin, which can actually be checked in all the municipalities of the Duke. If those debtors he talked about were dressed up and charged for what they owed, and there are mechanisms that can be charged, believe me, this budget would blossom and this crisis would have gone a long way easier. Listen to him, check out all the Dukean municipalities, check out who these people owe, because everyone they owe can pay for it. I'm responsible, they can pay, they won't pay. They took it and the others owed it in a deal with someone. It's a mild suspicion, and the experiences from my municipality, from my West Coast, say that those who remain in debt mostly have some party books and believe they have several in drawers, so with whom longer, better, they change it as needed. You make them pay, whether they have one of those ten or 14 party books that make up the ruling majority. You know, every economic crisis doesn't hit everything equally, but definitely the laws of the economy say that every economic crisis hits the poorest. She's confirmed so far history several times that when economic crises come, when those troubled times come, then the fools get spoiled, the wise ones shut up, but the fucks always get rich. We can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12440	The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12441	Articles 225 and 226. I'm extremely pleased to have the Minister of Spatial Planning among us again, otherwise orthopedic. Since I have found in my morning presentation that it is probably not an accident that the very orthopedic as a representative of the government is here today, I believe that, first of all, it will support me as a doctor to seek information from the majority health minister, once a great intern, Dr Tomica Milosavljevic. What will the competent ministry, as well as the government as a whole, do about the large number of injured Serbian citizens in this new ice age, which, according to meteorologists' forecasts, will last? Mr. Dulic, please inform the minister, who seems to have some selective deafness, because he only hears colleagues from the government, and not the people, who keep coming to us as representatives of the opposition, that there is dangerous ice outside. I don't know if the minister is reading the paper, but here, I'm going to read you a piece of the paper. "A hundred citizens across Serbia, due to the ice-capped streets, the start of a day instead of the workplace welcomed hospitals and emergency centres. To get to the destination was a real endeavor, so besides careful walking, socks over boots, and all the other test methods against the skate, today I showed some of it, many had to make peace with the cast on their leg or arm. In the capital alone, more than 250 times, more than two-thirds of these calls were related to injuries due to the fall. That's why an ambulance spokesman, Hope Macura, tells everyone, and especially older citizens not to go out on the streets without interruptions." So this sounds really tragic. What does that mean? What's he gonna do when they're in need? The citizens of Gornji Milanovac, for example, by the number of interventions, have gone even worse. Only during the previous night, due to the fall caused by freezing rain, help with the Health Center's surgery department has asked for over 50 people, 15 of whom are detained for treatment, pelvic fractures, etc., you know very well what it is. There was also a bob trail in Uzic. A whole series of serious injuries were recorded, from contusions and fractures of the arms and legs, head injuries, and even concussions. Dr. Aco Moljević, orthopedic at a pleasure hospital, says that for 22 years he worked at the orthopedics department, he did not remember this number of injuries in one day. "As of yesterday, a man says, we've been working around the clock. Right now, there are 11 patients with severe leg injuries waiting for surgery." 114 patients arrived at the emergency center of the Vojvodina Clinical Center in the early morning classes who complained of injuries caused by the behind. What matters is that there seems to be other sightings. For example, counterpart Srdjan Milivojevic just realized that the situation is pretty normal because everywhere in the world and, of course, in Europe, the water freezes at temperatures below zero. If it is the fulfillment of the slogans of this ruling coalition that Europe has no alternative, then it is an honor to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12442	Mr. Petar Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12443	Ladies and gentlemen, some of the Serbian Government are telling citizens that our country will profit from the global economic crisis process, and as an explanation and evidence that the government will do so and why, the government says - we have learned about the crisis and we have qualifications for the crisis, and in the crises we have always won. Please, that doesn't seem true. In fact, when it comes to excise duties, we need to inform our citizens and to interpret that excises and VAT are actually price increases, the other is nothing, a typical example of increasing the price of everything that excises and VAT are applied to. It's something new in the new government. What I wanted to say to you is that I support this amendment by Mr Markicevic, and I'm putting and restarting, who knows which way, the issue of agrarians, agrarian mafias, agrarian robberies and muggings of the state from thieves and tycoons in relation to the use and usurpation of state agricultural land. I ask the question - who's behind those tycoons? Who stands behind the backs of those mobsters who profited in these times of crisis? In the privatisation process, as you can see, it is known who can profit in Serbia -- the one that is the extended hand of the government or individual political parties. What's a Miskovic, what's a Peconi? Where did Todorovic come from from Croatia? Where'd the import lobby come from? Where did Pevec come from in the middle of Belgrade, with 54,000 square meters and 90% from imports from Croatia and Slovenia, and 10% from Serbia alone? Where's Miskovic here, MK comertz, where are those people? Why does the Government not take appropriate measures? I'll ask for patience, just to draw your attention, pay attention to a report from a municipality. With the SRS committees in the town hall in Panchev, I asked the question of renting agricultural state land: what is the area, to whom is it issued, and do they pay? I'll inform you now. In 2007, contracts for catastrian municipalities were concluded: Apple, Glogolj, Kačarevo, Dolovo, Omoljica, Banatski Brestovac, Ivanovo and Pančevo. Now let's see how the contracts are executed, who's covering up the crime and who's not running the collection process? In 2007, 3,637 hectares of agricultural state land were leased. Who doesn't pay and what are the amounts? Sinisa Radovanchev owes 765,000 euros. Next, Miroslav Alexa... I wouldn't go far, I wouldn't go far, and there could be someone else there. Look out, please, Mr. Miroslav Alex owes 267.000 euros. You see, this one recently bought Old Tamis Panchevo for 11m euros. It is a agricultural goods that have 2,800 hectares, under 45,000 square meters, owns 70 tractors, nine combines, 329 connected machines, two farms equipment, an annual sale of 25,000 tonnes of freighters. The cow farm counts 1,000 throats. That was, but now it's not even 5%. You see, he's moving on now. He owes the state, the state's funding him here. Buys new land, robs the state - the state shuts up, no one starts the collection process. This needs to be checked for truth. I got this report because I asked the municipal commission to rent state agricultural land. Who didn't pay the next amount. AD "Vojvodina" Starcevo owes 158,000 euros, DOO Nicko agrar, Banatski Brestovac, owes 111,000 euros, AD Dolovo owes 117,000 euros. It says - we must also point out that some legal persons used agricultural land in state property in 2007. The highest amount was bid at a bid held in September 2007 -- they did not sign lease agreements, and they continued to use land, and in 2008 refused to conclude out-of-court settlements. It is about the following persons: DOO "Nicko agrar", Banatski Brestovac owes, Mr. Dulic, I apologize, here, using 902 hectares illegally; PP "Pubuka", AD "Pubuka", illegally using 26 hectares; AD "Kačarevo" unlawfully uses 129 hectares; PDP "Dunav" Ivanov illegally 166 hectares. So, in 2008 leased on the territory of this municipality, it was for 2007, it was leased 7,525 hectares. Debts are large, many are rich, the Ministry of Agriculture does not take appropriate measures, and the inspectorate does not do its job, the Ministry of Public Prosecutors does not do their job, they do not go before courts to conclude the settlements. What is against the law and is not in accordance with the Law on renting state agricultural land - no one has under that law authorised anyone to conclude out-of-court alignments in this process. The question now arises - did the Commission rent out state agricultural land and whether or not the fair market price of renting agricultural land? It can conclude a settlement as anyone will in the municipal commission, with the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture. I must point out that neither excise duties nor VAT, nor the budget would be more empty -- if only accessions were checked, the revision of all the issuing contracts in the lease of state agricultural land. Billions and billions do not pay tycoons and rich people, and privileged ones belonging to certain structures and certain political parties. Find a radical, we'd like to know that there's a radical who has concluded a contract to rent state agricultural land without being sanctioned. Of course, even if the procedure was to be executed, that is, to be charged, it would have been carried out long ago. Lately, me and Mr. Krstin have been talking about these problems in the agrarian, because now the biggest robbery in the agrarian, but the biggest, most serious, I'm warning you, and I'm distracting us. Dismiss me, review all contracts and you'll get a result - that what I said is not enough, that it's very mild and that someone should answer for this, because the state budget is damaged. The state was robbed, and ordinary citizens and average farmers did not allow the state to participate in the bid of state agricultural land. Why and how -- here? You don't have an honest peasant who can buy 3,000 acres, but you have now in Dolovo, Omoljica, Banatski Novi Sela, in Brestovac, Kačarevo, Vrsac, White Church, agricultural producers who can rent 50 hectares. They can take 100 acres, process them successfully and pay first and foremost. What and where is the state wrong now? This is a major failure of a state that's been cut off by crime. How come the state's right to rent, and in advance does not pay the tenant's renter a certain amount that was reached in the tender? Please, in Serbia, when you take the land for hire, the tenant pays a pre-determined rent. What is this? The state helps rich people and thieves to get rich, the state helps those honest people not to own certain areas, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia is much damaged. There's another problem. See what the report says about the parliamentary question that I also asked the Ministry of Agriculture, because I asked for contracts, when the contract was concluded, with whom, to which amount, was the lease paid and whether it was paid after the maturity of the tight interest. Here's what I got from the government and the Department of Agriculture. The agreements on the lease of agricultural land in the state property, concluded by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, do not provide for interest in the event of a delay, but are intended to pay the rent in the dinar equivalent in euro. What difference does it make? It doesn't matter. The amount of money in the dinars is adjusted and converted into euro, if he who owes or he who seeks, to whom he owes, the trustee converts and calculates. Who's the one who freed these punks and these profiteers of tight legal interest? Do you know that an ordinary citizen if he owes someone 5,000 dinars to be charged to him by the Law on Liabilities from the day of entry into late to the day of payment? Here's an example of Ope. I got a report from the Ministry, 12 tenants took state land, no dinars that were paid. There's no report here. So I concluded that the current agriculture minister, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, is taking some steps towards these answers, and that drastic measures should be taken without delay, that criminal police, the competent state authorities, should be involved, that the ministry activates its resolutions and that the state in the budget takes over what belongs to it. It's a miracle that everyone has ignored the state agricultural land, it's Alibe's straw. Nobody cares about that anymore. The failed companies, the failed companies, the cooperatives, the farms, what do we do now, if some dinar rents, they'll give, if they don't, we'll tolerate it. So, a tight rent interest now someone might be driving for 10 years not to pay. What's he gonna do? If he owed 100,000 euros, if he finds a smart lawyer to drive a lawsuit for 10 years, as our judicial authorities are effective, he will pay 1,000 euros tomorrow. He'll be in a position to pay 1,000 euros. I have here for all the municipalities of South Banat County, and since I don't have that much time, you're going to let me take out the MPs next time, and what Mr. Kristin and I stand for, we're going to go through it, because we're still going to look for countless times, we're not giving up anymore, and we have inconceivable evidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12444	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12445	I announced this amendment in the principle debate. It differs from any amendments submitted to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in the sense that Article 9. The Excise Act practically complements some new attitudes. These attitudes primarily refer to bioethanol, biodiesel, biometanol, bio-etb, bio-ntb and something new that should be installed according to some standards, and from the point of view, if I may say, releases, rejections, discounts or benefits, if bio-components are used in the creation of motor gasoline or diesel fuels. With this amendment I included both absolute alcohol and bio-etb, it's ethyl-tercio-butyl-ether. Of course, I'm not an expert on these things, this is what some people who understand this technology did to me, but as far as I understand them, the idea is that bio-components are used to mix up bio-components, if that's the right expression, and to get into the fuel for so much reduction and excise. This will probably not be possible in 2009, because it is also necessary to do technical standards, but it is also foreseen by this amendment, as foreseen for all those components in the interference, which are bio-original, there is also the right to recover paid excise duties. To shorten this story, given that the government said it would not accept this amendment, they found it as an excuse that the Excise Act did not prescribe everything that could go into the mix, without it being a matter of some other technical regulations, and I managed to resolve it with this amendment, in the last position, where I suggested that the two ministries and one agency jointly complete this concept, of course, in accordance with this idea that was put here. Just to remind the public that there are standards in the EU and that they are already moving to 10% of the total fuel consumption for transport, where this environmental fuel will go, where it will not lead to pollution and that there is a great need in both Western Europe and other countries for these bio-components. This is interesting also from the point of view of the development of agriculture, because the bio-mass that enters this is used as raw material for the production of these components. Now I would no longer talk about it, because the government has made it clear that such an amendment does not accept, but I get the impression that they are willing to continue their talks with other ministries and that probably in some subsequent amendments to the Excise Act they find some solution. Just to draw attention, it is now standard that 5.7% in Europe must be that biofuel or with these additives, to go to 10% of consumption and will likely increase it every year. So that we don't pass as with gas storage, so that we don't pass as we do on some other energy-related initiatives, use of wind, water and other things that can serve as energy, I think we should think on time about these things and be prepared, because obviously energy and water are something that will be the most interesting and the biggest problem in the 21st century. This is suggested by a number of analyses, even 10-15 years ago it was said that water will be a major problem, so that all initiatives on regulating the amount of water for drink and everything that can be a substitution to existing energy sources, we need to develop and we need to measure tax policy to stimulate it. This idea of mine was exactly the one, as I had led some idea of biodiesel and biofuels a few years ago, and it was kind of adopted, because it was no longer a matter of excise duty, but three years ago, I hope that this initiative should soon be accepted, that we are preparing for what is inevitably coming, all world experts suggest. I would use the sequel to draw attention to the fact that the Excise Law, in addition to providing income to the Republic of Serbia for financing the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia and that these funds provide public expenditure, is also interesting because the producers of excise goods, regardless of whether it is fuel or cigarettes or alcohol, deserve special attention because they probably have a specific monopoly position by definition. In the case of an oil derivative, this is expressed. We have two refineries dealing with this production, with cigarettes there are also several factories, with alcohol there are more producers, if we consider that this excise provision is also covered by brewery. So we have a far larger number of these producers and they're very interesting, because their position practically prohibits them from funding certain things. If there is a ban somewhere, then there is a ban on producers of excise products to finance political parties, which I think is a very important provision, as there is a ban on political parties to take credit for their activities, as there is a ban on the financing of political parties from abroad, although the regulation is quite unspecified. I think it would also be forbidden for NGOs, because it is not clear in some NGOs whether their activity is social or political. Given the frequency of appearances on television, reporting and comments they make, it is obvious to them that the primary political function, and then when we consider that until yesterday they were an NGO, and now the MPs of a political party, then it was clear to us that it was a lobby for political entry. It's not just Mr. Dulic, as in resistance. Other resistances are present here, Srdjan Milivojevic, Konstavić, Jorga is gone, however, there are many, Andric among these there, although he has separated himself from them, we have Homen who is now a state secretary, once in the Resistance, I see now in some new proposals that half of the Resistance goes to the Anti-Corruption Agency. Where they learned in the government's organization how to fight corruption, when they reach out to the Resistance, only they didn't kill each other over who would take more, it was a fight. Homen didn't fight these guys. You left early, 15 minutes early, now I get it. Excise product manufacturers deserve special attention, probably the regulations regulated by their business, the Excise Act regulates their business at least in one part, it is an excise permit and an excise warehouse, deserve special attention. We're pretty far from some solutions that might be acceptable, I don't want to open the topic, but with us excise products producers are becoming kind of political monopolies. If you want to touch the excise policy in the production of cigarettes, tobacco processing, then the manufacturers say - if you touch it, we move production. The first warning measure is the one at the beginning, when they entered our market, when they bought our factories, which they interrupted to buy tobacco produced in our country and questioned our producers. If the tobacco industry had acted like this in Nis and Vranj, they probably wouldn't have had their own tobacco production for a long time. They still had an obligation to develop these cooperative relations. Now cigarette manufacturers, manufacturers of this type of excise product, have no obligation and our tobacco production, in itself, stagnates, I can't say it's shutting down, but it's stagnating. Of course, our government gave it to us from January 25, 2001 until today. The manufacturer of excise products is also a special responsibility, now let's use these new terms. They should show that social responsibility is part of society. However, they do not show that responsibility. They show only great thirst, great hunger and great greed, that the sooner and the more they kidnap, the more they take, because they say, new times have come, the time of profit has come, as one show is called. A time of profit and socially responsible behavior are two contradictory things. Who needs to calm down these two contradictions? The government of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because there are mechanisms. The mechanisms are state policy, the mechanism is laws, laws that need to be restrained, restricted and otherwise controlled by the monopoly, so that it does not come out of some framework and become a danger to everyone. We still haven't had a chance to see state policy measures aimed at achieving these objectives. On the contrary, we have measures by the state to encourage monopolies to be even stronger and stronger monopolies. It is enough to remind only of the production of cigarettes, for five years ahead they received, it seems to me in 2004, in one of the amendments to the Excise Act, the dynamics that will change the amount of excise duties on tobacco processing. With an oil derivative, that wasn't the situation, that's what I have to say. The question is, what is their function? Do they have to be bound by a law? Do they have to respect some law? A few hours ago, we had an opportunity here to see, I think Mr Popovic presented some data on how much excise duty is involved in the price of an oil derivative, if VAT is rejected, so you saw that it goes from 40 to 60% and that is probably the largest share of excise duty in the price structure of oil derivatives in Europe. In the event of a shift in the price of crude oil, it will be further, the impact will be on the growth of these other instructions and what enters the price structure, but I think it is the most correct logic of comparison, that both excise duty as a specific type of tax and VAT are taken together as a criterion of how much they participate in the retail price of an oil derivative. When both fiscal revenues are considered, then you will see what represents and what remains as a producer price and what remains as a rebate. Then you'll see how many states he's taking on oil derivatives. I did for a good portion of the funds to be taken through these sources. (President: Thank you. ) You must take care of the overall economic policy, or to be more precise, the overall perspective and the possibility of citizens surviving in 2009. I think you failed that exam.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12446	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. For a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Pejcic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12447	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I'm reporting by article 225 and 226, I have a question for you. I'm not going to ask you questions about VAT, I see that's what the MPs were bothering you with. I'm going to ask you a specific question, and it's about your profession. At the same time, I was the head of a district, Jablani County. He's going through the Jablanic Management District through Corridor 10. We from the Jablani County are wondering if this corridor will continue its course through the Gredel ravine? For the simple reason, because we have a national brand there, it's a Predeane motel. You probably stopped by when you were traveling to Greece or Macedonia or from there. Since you're the Minister of Spatial Planning, we're interested in your answer, will Corridor 10 go that way? The Predejane Motel was privatized five years ago. It was privatised by Mr Dragan Pavlovic and invested about three million euros in it. Now the motel looks amazingly beautiful. The motel employs about 90 workers, during the season plus 40 and about 450 hungry mouths of food. For this reason, if you don't have an answer to that question, you can answer me in writing, does Corridor 10 go through the Gredile ravine? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12448	Thank you, too. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12449	I'd like to ask the minister of his field a question. You signed a memorandum with cement producers on the eve of New Year's Eve, related to cement waste burning. People from Koseric called and asked me, they're worried about it, I know that cementists are interested in it, but what about environments and citizens living in that environment? Please answer that question for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12450	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12451	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here are the answers to these two questions. As for this section of Corridor 10 highway, which should pass so-called. In the south leg, it's a stock on the E75 highway, Grabovnica-Levosava. We issued an act on urban conditions. He was forwarded to the expert control officer and he will be finished these days. A review of ideas projects is under way and should be completed by the end of January. The highway routes are defined by spatial plans. We have several demands from local self-government to change them and ask all local self-government just to give very clear and precise economic parameters and arguments that would make them change. We have no reason not to meet local self-governments, if it is possible for these changes to lead to these local self-governments finding an interest in organising new industrial zones, hiring people, etc. We're having a conversation with local self-government. I hope that next week we will have talks with the municipality of Leskovac and other interested parties. Of course it's a public document and of course we're ready to talk to all of you to get to the best possible solution. As far as the agreement we signed with the cement industry is concerned, it is one of those agreements that should strategically address the issue of solving specific types of waste in Serbia. We're monitoring the ambience air around all cementers. They're very strict and very precise. There's no moment where there's a danger of air pollution without our monitoring cells measuring it. Also, there is no danger of human health and the environment. If there were any parameters that would indicate that any activity would cease. I guarantee it to you responsibly. In this way we will certainly try to achieve a kind of strategic co-operation, not only with cements, but also with another industry, through which we could find technical solutions to treat the different kinds of waste that exist today in Europe and everywhere in the world. As for the concerns of the citizens of your municipality and all other municipalities, we are at their disposal. We're in touch with them. As for the findings and analyses of these monitoring cells, you on the Ministry's website and the Environmental Protection Agency have daily, in real time, reports of concentrations of different concentrations of substances in the air, which talk about whether or not air pollution exists. They're monitoring an automated cell, where the human factor has no analysis, if there's a certain suspicion that anyone's trying to divulge that data. I'll monitor all these tests carefully, and I think I'll personally inform you of the movement of those parameters. I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12452	Thank you very much. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milutin Jelic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12453	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, this has now been a good illustration that the Government of the Republic of Serbia really needs to take more care which of the ministers will be authorised by a representative on what law. Mr Dulic immediately answered two questions from his portfolio, or from the Ministry of Spatial Planning. But he didn't hear the question, will VAT be introduced to the cast? That question is touching. We also have a VAT, and a cast that is up-to-date these days, so maybe that would be a way to fill out a huge deficit in the budget. I'm going back to my amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, and that amendment, which reads as "expunge", that is, by this amendment, I propose that Article 5 be deleted, which is, in fact, a proposal from the Government to increase the excise duty on beer. The very text of this bill states that now the excise on beer is nine dinars per litre and that the number is replaced by 15. That would be an increase in excise duty by 68%. But the MPs also read explanations. Those who do trade must know. I doubt the citizens knew how big the VAT was on beer. When you read the explanation, then you can see that the excise on beer is now 12.40. An increase in excise duty of 21% is proposed. I don't think there's a need to increase the excise on beer. I would also like to support an amendment to Article 4, where an increase in excise duties on tobacco processing is proposed. Several MPs have submitted an amendment to that article, too, to be deleted. I want to support the amendments to Article 3 so that there is no increase in excise duties on oil derivatives. Why doesn't the DSS think it's necessary to increase excise duties on oil derivatives, on tobacco processing, on beer? It is simply not right and it is not fair by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has decided on its own, not asking citizens, to unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement, and now that a deficit in the 300m-euro budget is emerging, each Serbian citizen decides to make up for it. The government is ruling these bill proposals and increasing excise duties, increasing administrative fees, and by removing some customs or reduction, it creates a huge deficit in the budget and drags its hand into every citizen's pocket. That's not fair. Those 300m euros are, I say, some loss and damage for 2009, which can be calculated right now. That is 300m euros less in the 2009 budget. However, no one has calculated and told us what long-term losses and businesses and our businesses, and Serbian citizens are from an unreasonable decision to unilaterally implement the agreement. Before the government made one such decision at all, it was necessary to make a serious analysis and to think carefully about how these measures would affect individual businesses and citizens in general. By increasing excise duties, we can see that each citizen is individually affected by such a decision. So it took every ministry, starting with the Ministry of Agriculture, so the Ministry of Economy, so the Ministry of Trade, to run an analysis of how individual branches of industry, i.e. businesses, are going to have damages, and what losses they're going to have. We all know, it's that famous Swot analysis, it's very simple, anyone can do it. So in one column you have what's the damage, and in another you have the benefit. But it wasn't done. The DSS MPs are very disappointed that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made such a hasty and unserious decision, thus jeopardising both the economy and domestic enterprises. I am personally disappointed in the way the debate is even going in this assembly about these seven very important laws that will affect each citizen individually. So sometimes we have laws of systemic and very significant, those that concern a particular branch. However, these seven laws really concern every citizen individually, so I am disappointed in the way this debate is going now in particular. The other day, there was a debate in principle. I expected Mrs Kalanovic, who was an authorised representative of the government, to explain these laws to us in principle. So the least we expected, that's to explain every law in detail. But not what we have in mind, so we can read it, understand it or not, but it should have been a little clearer and explained because of the citizens of Serbia. Her explanation for all seven laws lasted, it seems to me, three minutes, and there was little understanding of what kind of change she was carrying. After that, he was a respected friend of mine, Mr. Dulic, who is still the minister of spatial planning. After Minister Dulic was Minister Šijakovic, the minister of religion. We discussed this afternoon for two hours, he wasn't a minister, so Mr. Dulic came back again. So we don't have a quality discussion. The MPs from the opposition seem to be talking to themselves. Here, I don't know, except now that Mr. Dulic has explained about Corridor 10, we're talking to each other, and we've been putting up with amendments, and we in the amendment and we see what the parliamentary group thinks about it. I just expected there to be a more serious and quality debate here. When no quality analyses have already been made on what a unilateral application of the Transition Agreement, when you do not have it, then you usually look at the experience, not only of this, but also of some other decisions you make, if there is, so you're looking at the experience of other countries. Because the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Transition Trade Agreement, which in some ways is its component, is an instrument or mechanism that the EU has created or I say created for the countries of Southeast Europe that have ambition or have had to become part of the EU. There's no such thing as someone else's experience. Why? Because, say, Romania and Bulgaria when they went through this phase, through the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, they did not unilaterally apply it, as we will. They applied it bilaterally, so the EU, which is the second signator of the agreement or contract, opened its funds, and then certain industries, thanks to these funds, failed and did not experience any stress or trauma because the state applies a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So, we have no experience, there is no good practice, because this agreement has never been applied unilaterally in history, so since the EU exists. So if there is no bilateral application and if the EU fails to fulfil its obligations, in other words it opens its funds for certain industries, then we are in a big problem. So our government here has a unique approach. When we talk specifically about Article 5, where the excise on beer increases by 21%, but not only that, but this increase in excise duty at all, that's where it comes from a pretty wrong logic. I'll talk about beer, because it's simple goods or products, that it's wrong to believe that if you increase your excise duty by 20%, that your budget revenue will be 20% higher. He won't. Because every responsible man or citizen of Serbia will not now spend more money on buying beer, he will spend the same amount. And the rest of it, they'd rather buy milk, meat, and what's more important, than what's living, and they wouldn't buy any more beer. So you'll spend the same amount of money, but that's why you'll sell less beer. When you sell less beer, demand goes down. If sold less, then our brewery and factories, in which Serbian consumers work, will produce less. As soon as production is reduced, at best the salary will be reduced, and at worst, I hope that will be as little as possible, then the jobs will be lost. This man who loses his salary or loses his job and receives his full income will then less buy the other goods on which to pay a regular tax. So this logic is completely wrong. It's a wheel, but our government is spinning in the wrong direction. Serious European countries, such as Germany, are thinking the opposite. They go for a reduction in excise duties, they go for a reduction in VAT, so when it decreases, then consumption increases. Why? Because then these products are cheaper, so when you increase consumption, you increase production and thus you can hire new workers, and you will not be fired. I simply urge and urge both government and government representatives to think in a more healthy way. Try to increase consumption by reducing taxes and not increasing VAT. Whenever an MP today spoke the word VAT here and called for an interview by Minister Dragutinovic, it seems to me, yesterday, in "News", that the government is considering raising the VAT rate from 18% to 19%, Mr Ilica, as he is doing now, has turned his head. One of the MPs invited him out, but he, as state secretary, has no opportunity to go out for a pay phone and talk us out, and then something is wrong again, because he may be personally against it, but Mrs Dragutinovic is the finance minister, he is the secretary of state in the same ministry. So it's an illustration that in the same ministry, two finance experts have a different view of VAT stories. So live and see, we'll see what happens. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12454	Thank you, Mrs. Banovic. Mr. Secretary has a word, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12455	Just for the sake of the public, since this is a subject mentioned in the National Assembly for several days and one perception is that it is only a matter of days when VAT will be increased. So, let me repeat what I said and in the debate on the principle of all these laws. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not considering increasing VAT. If budget revenues are reduced, and no one knows what will happen this year, because all the countries in Europe and the world fear the effects of the financial and economic crisis and are preparing for budget rebalances, and it was one of the, unfortunately, subspecies findings of several MPs, that you are already preparing budget rebalances, there is no country in Europe that will not rebalance the budget this year because the effects are very unpredictable. In any case, if budget revenues are much lower, there are still some measures that can happen to balance the budget. They, first of all, can be in the direction of reducing public spending and still restricting the budget itself. The increase in VAT at the moment is not an option, and that is the position of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which I wanted to present on these occasions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-15-0.u12456	This is where I finish today's work. I thank you for your cooperation and your cooperation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
