ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22786	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the sittings. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22787	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking Mr Dacic, the Minister of Infrastructure Mr Mr Mr Mrkonjic, for answers to questions and explanations, and because they need the prosecution's answers, Ms Malovic's justice minister. The question I ask is about events in the company "Cosmet Transport", a traffic company from Kosovo Mitrovica, which employs 165 employees from Kosovo Mitrovica, Zubino Potok and Leposavic. I'm asking this question because I'm afraid this problem can escalate in an unwanted direction. What exactly is this about? The director of the company from 2005 to 2008 was Srdjan Vulovic, who, otherwise, you check it out, I do not argue, because I do not know, declares as a member of the SPS, referring precisely to Mr Dacic and Mr Mrkonjic. At the same time, although he is the director of the social firm, Srdjan Vulovic is the majority owner of the private company "Colasin Transport". Therefore, the director is "Cosmet of Transport" and the majority owner of "Colašin Transport", which in itself is a conflict of interest. The Cosmet Transport company, which feeds more than 500 people in Kosovo and Metohija, took four buses of German production on the lease in 2004, with a price of around 1,200,000 euros. 880,000 euros have been paid off. Director Vulovic is making a decision to break up the lease agreement and that the buses voluntarily surrender to the company that gave them to the lease. It's going down 880,000 euros. But that's not the end: after a very short time of the same bus, but at a much better price, he buys out his private company "Collash's Transportation". Otherwise, financial indicators, I have here all the documentation, confirming that the company Cosmet Transport, whose director he was, had financial opportunities to continue to pay off the lease, because there were 300,000 euros left, and that these buses remain in its possession. This is just the beginning of the story. He, although in conflict of interest, concludes a cooperative relationship contract between a social firm whose director and private firm is the majority owner, of course, to the detriment of "Cosmet Transport". There is a takeover of lines, a takeover of student lines and major conflicts, especially in connection with who will hold the transport of passengers on the route of Kosovo Mitrovica – Belgrade. Workers of Cosmet Transport have made barricades; I have proof that only those through BAS can carry passengers from northern Kosovo and Metohija to Belgrade. Now watchdogs there day and night, 24 hours each, to prevent the Kolashin transport buses from transporting passengers to Belgrade. A criminal trial has also been initiated; the matter of the crime in place, the accused and the suspect do not appear at scheduled hearings. I'm just afraid, because of all these workers who are really in a dramaticly difficult situation, that this situation can escalate in an unsolicited direction, that there may be riots, physical controversies, conflict. Simply, this question of mine is an appeal and a request to the competent ministers to prevent the complete collapse of the company "Cosmet Transport" and possible unwanted escalation of the conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22788	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsenović Constantine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22789	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, I asked a parliamentary question on 23 April about 65 pensioners from Montenegro whose status has not been resolved. At that time, the Minister of Finance, quoted her words in the minutes, replied: "I wanted to answer the question about the military pensioners from Montenegro. So there is a problem of military pensioners from Montenegro and this problem is expressed in the number of military pensioners, which is 70. Addressing this problem is under way, and I hope that next month the problem will be resolved, and the problem is solved within the group composed of representatives of the three ministries, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Labour. “ I want to point out that the Ministry of Finance, thanks to the Ministry of Finance, has proposed a solution for this problem and provided money. However, I ask the question of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy why this case stands in his ministry for almost four weeks, why does he not give any answer, either positive or negative? I don't know what's taking so long. I don't want to make that point again and talk about the fate of those people, those families, but in August, it's going to be two years since they haven't received any receipts. Does it take so much to sharpen the situation now that the money's already secured, when we have consent? No financial problems, one ministry at a time needs to pray for this problem to be resolved. Please respond as soon as possible from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I also want to point out this: I personally contacted individual representatives, and I am very dissatisfied with those answers, pretending like no one knows the problem. I think it's time for both the Parliament and all our ministries to take care and take more care of the fate of the people in this country, because individuals make up the entire composition of this society. If we are not prepared to resolve the fate of certain people who have exercised their rights, what about those who, in some other way, need to solve certain issues much harder? That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22790	Thank you. Mrs. Jankovic Alexandra has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22791	I have, for a change, a question for the Minister of Culture Nebojsa Bradic. I will risk knowingly to be accused of hearing lacks for film art, but taught many previous experiences when it comes to this ministry, I don't think there's anything to leave behind. Namely, what's this about? A few days ago on TV, we saw a contribution to the plans for the film "Foreign Blood". Several television broadcasts have contributed, and Pannonia TV has devoted significant time to this. The theme of the film is the loss of the folksdojcer in Vojvodina after World War II, and by whom, if not by the Serbian criminal regime, partisan and communists. The film will be a product of joint co-operation between Serbia, Austria, Germany, BiH, Croatia, with Hungary also expressing great interest in participating in the project. The co-financers of this project are the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the Executive Greater Vojvodina. According to Minister Bradic, the essence of the theme of the film is the question whether we have opened up enough topics from the past, because the past is not dead, it is part of our life today and our future. The director of the film Pierre Zalica pointed out that it was a project that for the first time in the history of cinema opened the question of the fate of the folksdojcher on the ground of Europe, especially in Vojvodina, on the eve, during and after World War II, with a focus on the current topics in the area where the Danube Krauts, their descendants and other peoples now live. Accordingly, I wonder if one of these current topics is the issue of the Vojvodina Statute, which gives Vojvodina the state to wash the innocent Vojvodina of all "the evil genocide of Serbia"? A representative of the Danube Krauts Oswald Hartman told this occasion how he cried when he read the script for this film and how it is necessary to make one such film, to show the truth, because after World War II, 350,000 folks were expelled from their hearths in Vojvodina. I must point out that I will always vote for the truth, whatever it may be, but it is also a fact that there are many more elements that I doubt will be covered by this project. In fact, it is very strange and extremely hypocritical that this project which should show the truth about our crimes is being attended by Croatia and Hungary, which and how they have the material to make their films that will face their criminal past, in the same area, the Vojvodina area, but these crimes are probably less important, given that they have been committed against Serbs. Why do the zealous Croats not make a film about Ustasha crimes against Serbs and Jews during the occupation of Vojvodina, when about 8,000 people were killed, but on the memorial in Srem, not a single word states that they are victims of Ustasha terror, but victims of the occupation? Of course, that's why at the entrance to Dubrovnik you have a board on which several languages are written that Dubrovnik is shelled by nothing caused by Serbian criminal armies. Why, let's say, don't make a film about the banishment of tens of thousands of Italians from the Ustasha area, so that this truth can also be shown to Europe? Why did the Hungarians, instead of funding the "truth" of our crimes, not return to their past, at a time when Buck was occupied and attached to Horti's Hungary, during a famous New Sad raid, which the Hungarian fascists committed against Serbs and Jews in Novi Sad from January 21st to 23rd 1942, when in three days in the Danube waters more than 1,300 Novosadjans disappeared, when on January 21st, the horde under the rule of the "Honved orange breaker", the Hongweden commander of the town of Jozef Grashi, stopped the streets and began to search and commit such atrocities against the weak lives of women and children, that they entered history as an unimaginable barbarism? This event was also witnessed by sailors from the ship “Corona” who sailed from one coast to the other of the Danube, who later said that the mass of corpses in the Danube had interfered with sailing. As has been established so far, the raid included military, gendarmes and Hungarian state-run royal police in Novi Sad, as well as Hungarians living in Novi Sad. For countless of these crimes, these perpetrators and executioners were later decorated by the Cross of People's Defence and the Memorial of the Southern Ends, as if they were on the front and as if Novi Sad were the scene at which two equal military forces clashed. Why is our Ministry of Culture... (President: Mrs. Jankovic, time. )......................................................................................................... just to finish the sentence, not at least one project whose topic would be the death of Serbs through history, banishing Serbs from their hearths in Croatia and Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22792	Mr. Marash has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22793	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is June 16th, 110 days have passed since February 28th, a day that is scheduled for every company, including a public company, to hand over the final account. So, 110 days from the time it was legally under the obligation of the Public Enterprise NIS has not yet submitted the final bill. In fact, we don't know one final account of a public enterprise. What does it matter? Because it's up to 31. 12. In 2008, NIS was a public enterprise owned by the Republic of Serbia and indirectly owned by citizens. It is interesting that we sold NIS to a Russian partner, more specifically "Gasprom", more specifically to the Russian government, for 400m euros. According to what we can learn from the media, and what is indirectly confirmed here in front of you, Madam President, there is a debt in the NIS, i.e. a loss of around 100m euros. I'm interested, and that's what I'm asking the Minister of Energy and Prime Minister Cvetkovic, who's responsible? Who is responsible for the fact that in 2004, 2005, 2006, NIS was a profit business, a large unscheduled profit from previous years, which has been destroyed in NIS in the last two months, i.e. in the last two months of last year? What do I say, the last two months of last year? In October, NIS was in the 20th place of European companies for profit. On February 28th, we were supposed to have a final bill handed over and that we already know what business was like last year. What everyone's suggesting is a great loss. How could he have suffered a loss in the last two months? Instead of the profits expected by the finance minister, the loss of 100m euros is now showing. Who's responsible? Someone has to be responsible, because these are questions for the prime minister and the minister of energy. Who's responsible for this loss? Is anyone gonna answer? Now that Russia's Gazprom is the Russian government's majority owner in NIS, it's a special problem and they'll probably have that problem inside their company, as NIS now manages 100%, and solves it. We are interested in who damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens by 100m euros. Look, we sold NIS for 400,000 euros, 100,000 euros are already down from this loss. Then what's going on? Then we have a jump fuel price. We've been checking, the only country in the world in which in the last two months five times the fuel price has jumped is Serbia, absolutely the only country on this planet! When fuel prices fall, then Minister Dinkic is in charge of explaining it, then he comes out and says "fuels will be cheap", but when the price of fuel jumps, we find out from the media. She's jumped five times in the last two months! I ask the Minister of Energy and Prime Minister – who influences the formation of the price of fuel in Serbia, does only the majority owner of NIS, or Russia's Gazprom, or the Russian government, or our government, or those authorities that are competent to determine the price of energy, including gasoline, or oil, have some effect on the collection? What happens if the NIS Director-General's proposal is accepted to process oil from 20 and something jumps to 50 and some dollars? What's the price of fuel then? The most expensive fuel in Europe, the worst fuel in Europe, the only country in Europe where five times in the last two months the price of fuel has jumped. Who's responsible for that? Are we affecting the fuel price? These are the questions I expect to be answered by either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22794	I thank you, Mr. Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22795	I have a few questions for you, President of the National Assembly. The first question is short and simple, consisting of more questions. I'd really like to ask you to respond after I've been exposed to him. For a reminder, do you remember when we held the last session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee and do you remember what the conclusion was? What happened to the new session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee? As I recall, that was over a month ago. The conclusion was that we should meet in two weeks and that the service will prepare a list of those draft laws to be amended and brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can have an idea of what this parliament's job is. On the contrary, you haven't scheduled a session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee yet, and we don't know when you will. That's the first question. Please explain to us what was in the way as an obstacle to this, unless these are the announcements by Boris Tadic about the change of the constitution, and from that it is the conclusion that this existing one should not be applied. Maybe that's it? The second question, crucially, is this: you know that the Democratic Party of Serbia has filed several legislative acts and that they are in the process. It's enough to give you three at this point. There is one draft law on the National Assembly, but I see, on Thursday and Friday, you are preparing a public debate on how convenient it would be to pass a law on the National Assembly and to amend the Rules of Procedure, of course, without any concrete act that would be discussed at that time. You know that we have submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Debt in order to help an unfortunate government that is unable to carry out its task with the IMF in accordance with the law to do so by harmonising it with the law, at least by amending the law and allowing the Government to request this responsibility to maintain monetary stability, which so far did not exist as a legal basis. Of course, we didn't mean it seriously, but it would be correct. After all, there's money screaming, or skin from the back of taxpayers, at 400 euros per capita. In the end, what about the Duke's jurisdiction law? Why hasn't that been put on the agenda yet, and when do you intend to put this law on the agenda? We saw last time that it was put on the agenda of the law proposed by Nenad Canak and his party colleagues, without the government's opinion. After all, there was no opinion of the Committee, but some amendments were made afterwards. First of all, it was the Democratic Party that did so, so it got through as amendments to the Committee. When I asked you last time why these laws, especially the law on the transfer of the powers of Vojvodina, did not put you on the agenda, your argument was that it was because there were serious legal proposals, and no government opinion came. I'm asking that same government when she thinks she delivers that opinion? And I'm asking you, when do you think you put that on the agenda? You've already made one dangerous precedent with one stupid law. I don't see why a good and serious law wouldn't be put on the agenda, a team before it's a matter of Vojvodina's jurisdiction that's a matter of prior question of confirming the Duke's statutes. Confirmation of the Duke's statutes can follow only then, and it would be good if Vojvodina's statute had been passed in the duchy parliament only after a previous set of laws on the National Assembly had been passed. That way there wouldn't be this kind of wandering. The problem of the ruling coalition, first of all the Democratic Party, is that they are aware of what the Vojvodina Statute is at the moment, that there is a disintegration act, an act that is not in agreement with the Constitution and because of this, the confirmation of the Vojvodina statutes still do not exist in the Serbian Parliament. That is why, for the same reasons, because there is a political conflict and misunderstandings about it, we do not have a government proposal for a law on the transfer of jurisdiction to Vojvodina. The only proposal you have now in the procedure is the proposal of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the maximum scope of the transfer of competences to Vojvodina, in line with the desired autonomy prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see why this law isn't on the agenda, as the predecessor of confirming the Duke's statutes, and why this law isn't being considered here. (President: Time. ) If there are any problems with the content of this text, they can be changed by amendments, of course, in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22796	Mr. Aligrudic, I have the impression that you know the answers to all the questions, but of course, I will answer you. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are just getting material; we agreed to schedule a session after two or three weeks, that is to say, to give MPs some time to get the material, to prepare ourselves and be equally informed, because it was an observation that we were not all equally well informed at the last session. I'm about to schedule this session. As far as the acts sent by the DSS Parliamentary Group are concerned, they are in the process. We are now in a period of extraordinary session and it is possible to schedule the session with the agenda proposed either by the Government or by one-third of the MPs. It's probably more than familiar to you. Finally, as regards the law on the powers of the Vojvodina, in general, the law on the jurisdiction of the region, but as the bill will be, they are not in the assembly procedure. We have information that the government is bringing them to an end and will deliver them very quickly. Of course, it is a very important act, and the Statute of Vojvodina should be in line with that law. So I think this is all more than familiar to you, but here, these are the answers. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22797	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I would first of all ask for an answer when I will get an answer to the previously asked question. The question is why do we even ask questions here, because if there is no answer, we are in a position to be funny, but not because of MPs, but because of the Assembly, because of the institution, especially, Madam President, because you yourself promised to make an effort to get answers to some questions. I will remind you again that I did not get an answer to the question of what about the Law on the Property of the 2001 Union of Communists, on which parliamentary parties had the right 50% to use the assets of the former Communist Union? Let me inform you, Mrs Dejanovic, that the Ustasha Palace was then sold for 10 million marks. In doing so, a series of crimes were committed during the 5.5 hectares of state land. The million-dollar damage has been done. The contract is legally void, if the 2001 Law applies, and you keep avoiding answering me, or those who are competent to answer me, what about the application of the 2001 Law. I also asked you a question about the former Ministry of Trade and Tourism and the abuses committed by the ministry, which is why the budgetary inspection and the MUP have made the records known. I suppose they forwarded this to the prosecution, but, according to some information, the suspension of the proceedings was directly affected by Boris Tadic. Here, to this day I didn't get an answer. I ask the question, what about the report from the budget committee on "Nikola Tesla" Airport, Mrs Dejanovic? I suppose you've promised the MPs here, it's your duty to give the MPs an insight into that report. I heard from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance that the report was made and was sent to the president of the Serbian Parliament. But, ma'am, you didn't ask for that report. Take it, there's a show where he made a public statement... Therefore, please, either you are hiding that report or it is misleading Serbian citizens and there is no report at all. I know the report is over, and even on that show, he himself said that some things have led to further proceedings, because there's obviously been an abuse of official position, a violation of the law. Perhaps in a further procedure, those organs, hopefully, will do their job as they should (and how they should) do it. When all the things I've brought to mind in the previous presentation, then it's no wonder what's going on in this country and what's possible. It is possible for the judiciary, the prosecution and the police to simply say good-bye to justice, the laws, the Constitution; politics and laws will be implemented in the manner that suits someone, compared to how much political power they have. The best example is the case of the Municipality of Negotin and the District Court in Negotin. The district court in Negotina insists on ignoring the law, repealing the decisions of the Municipality of Negotin. It's obviously completely on one side, not taking care of the laws. People did the only thing possible, they wrote to the Serbian Supreme Court a request for a district court delegation in Negotin. It would be all right if the Contin District Court, who is required to be delegated to another court... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Here, to finish, does not reject the request of the Parliament of Negotin. Please, what kind of state is this? Is it possible these things happen? How do ordinary people get justice? Then no wonder some individuals are tried for 20 years for individual subjects. No wonder people commit suicide because they're aware that if they're dealing with a court they can't expect justice and can't expect to solve any single problem. It is, unfortunately, in all institutions, so here and here, in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22798	The congregation services and I have personally updated getting answers to all your questions, but, of course, I will do so today even after these suggestions and justified criticisms. I can't answer questions that haven't been asked to me and that aren't my jurisdiction. So I can only urinate and, of course, do so today, or congregation services will do so. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Miroslav Petkovic, Donka Banovic, Dr Nikola Krpic, Mladen Grujic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I invited the sittings to be attended by Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, as well as Dusan Protic and Nebojsa Lazarevic, assistant ministers of trade and services. I welcome them. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON PROTECTION OF CONCURENCES (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the draft of the law by the MPs: Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanović, Milorad Buha, Milan Škrbić, together Ivan Andrić, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maraš, Marina Toman, Petar Jojić, together Milos Radulović, Milica Vojić-Marković and Arsen Đurić, Vladjan Marić, together Arsen Đurić, Milos Radulović and Miroslav Petković, Marina Ragus, Dejan Mirović, Momo Rogović, Mićo Rogović, Radša Ilic, Dusan Marić, Dobrica Rade, Zlata Đerić, Jurvanka Tabaković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Momarnović, Mirović Mirović, Mirić Mirić, Mirić and Mirović. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs Dimitrijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the citizens of Serbia who are following this meeting of the National Assembly first, I would like to say that we will now hold a debate in detail on the proposal for a law on competition, without the opinion of the relevant assembly committee, because none of the members of the ruling coalition appeared at the meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism. As far as the amendments are concerned, the law aimed at preventing the monopoly on the sea market is, above all, clearly written. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 defining the subject matter of the law and I have suggested that certain words should be excluded from the definition of the subject matter of the law. It is good that, compared to the previous law on the protection of competition from the definition of the case and the objective of the law, you removed the words "blessing society in general", but I think it is not good that these words in this new bill are, in fact, just replaced by the words "good society". All right, so it's written this part, that this law regulates the protection of competition in the Republic of Serbia's market for economic progress, using the consumer, but the "goodness of society" kind of sounds like some kind of pre-election promise, not the provision of a serious law. You have decided to refuse this amendment of mine, on the grounds that it has needlessly narrowed the scope of the definition of the subject matter of the law. All right, I sincerely hope that over what year you won't be able to write again some new law on the protection of competition and to say again, as you have now written in the light of this bill, that the law currently in force is unsettled and that there are shortcomings and that changes and additions were not possible to solve the problem, so the whole new law has to be prescribed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22800	Thank you. You need to reapply. The word is made by Minister Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22801	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all I thank all all all the MPs and MP groups for their interventions, for their good and useful, and I would say useful, proposals that have been made to make the law even better, more concrete and more operational. In total, 66 amendments of MPs from virtually all parliamentary groups were submitted. With the necessary attention and security, the Ministry of Trade and Services examined all the amendments submitted and proposed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept a total of 15 amendments: two SNS amendments, three SRS amendments, two ZES amendments, two LDPs and six SPS MPs. Our overall assessment is that these amendments that we have accepted and incorporated into the text of the law have practically improved the law, that some provisions have made the Commission's work more clear, more precise, more operational. What I can say in front of the Department of Trade and Services is that with these interventions, we've made this law better than it was. For example, we have accepted amendments that correct some organisational solutions in the law, such as the amendment by Parliamentarian Andric of the Liberal-Democratic Party, which proposed to affirm the real need for the initiator to be informed within 15 days of the initiative. I really think that this is a good thing and thus the transparency of the procedure before the Commission is corrected. We also respected several amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, above all because they legally-technically correct the law, give more precise definitions, some formulations explain better. One package of six amendments of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group related to the integration of deadlines for the making of sublegal acts and the entry into force, again all with the aim of creating conditions to round up the legal framework for competition and that anything that may at this point still seem unknown, what sublegal acts will look like, is agreed with the beginning of the law. We were really trying, regardless of which is the parliamentary group and which the MP submitted the amendment, to study all the amendments, to try to install them in the text of the law, and here for the third time I realize that with these amendments that have been incorporated into the law, the law is better than it was. Thank you again, everyone. I call on you in the voting day to pass this law and to open a new stage in the field of anti-monopol legislation, as well as a total environment for integration in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22802	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22803	I have reported on this amendment because it is an introductory member of the entire law and I am trying to convince the representatives of the Government why it is necessary to accept this amendment. It's article one. The government tried to regulate the member, determine, determine what is the subject of this law. So far, the practice has been either to describe what all those who read the law can find in the following provisions, or to specify only an area that is being arranged or simply list all those chapters, those chapters that represent the content of the bill. Never in the first article of a law states what the objective of the law is. Why isn't that done? Because by definition, the goal is to make the last point of resistance that someone is looking for. But how does one pursue something called collectiveity, how does one pursue it by law, by law, and every law essentially needs to regulate the relationship between individuals and individuals on a specific issue or some specific area. When, in the first article of the definition of the case of the law, there are also some words that point to the purpose of the law, then know that the law is bad, unspecified, that there are too many holes and that the application of this law comes down to volunteering and an undefined form of discretionary authority for those who need to apply that law. The second objection that caused this amendment... For the sake of the public, let me remind you, Lidija Dimitrijevic asked for some words to be deleted, but she could completely erase, let's say, this formulation: "in order to make economic progress and the welfare of society". It is not the purpose of this law for members who follow to regulate economic progress and the welfare of society. In some ways, it is understood that it is above all regulations, above all laws, but this is a law on the protection of competition. It's a very simple topic – how to encourage competition, the state guarantees a boost to competition and how to combat an uncontrolled monopoly, a monopoly that threatens, destroys competition, and all of this, you are already right here below: "and especially the use of the consumer"... To us, the consumer is the subject of this law. It should be protected from all these market impacts where competition can be of a kind and other kind, but everything always breaks with consumers. I'm surprised these people who wrote this bill didn't understand the point of this amendment. For nothing, you put something in a member of the law that is paroles, flossules that mean nothing from the point of view of the law. If you had put this as principles, the principles that apply to the protection of competition in one of the following members, then it would have made some sense, but when you put the law's objective in the case, it's the most pointless thing that can be read in one law. It's simply causing the infidel. Someone laughs and says, "Well, this is how you think you cheat us, with these formulations, by the system "the cabbage looks at the flesh"? You will later see in the provisions quite another thing, and the latter has nothing to do with economic progress and the well-being of society, so before any member of this law has that function, it is not guaranteed, but it is assumed that the progress of society will take place if competition is preserved, if competition is protected, if an uncontrolled monopoly is contained. The target is assumed. The objective was not even given as a principle, but was given in the case of the law, and therefore we have submitted this amendment. I must, for the sake of the public, say that this law loses nothing if this amendment is adopted, but I must say that nothing more significant and does not get this law. Well, if it's too much, you better throw that extra away, 'cause it can only create confusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22804	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just for the reasons you mentioned earlier, Mr. Minister, we wanted some amendments to some technical matters to work out and make them clearer. In that context, I have also submitted this amendment to Article 3. On the other hand, I might be able to accept the explanation that you rejected this amendment, in which you said you didn't accept it because the concept of statehood binds to legal persons. If in that attitude you wanted to clearly differentiate what applies to the legal person and what to the natural person, then the title should have been guided by it. You know, it's kind of unannounced to put in a personal application; we here do not resolve the personal responsibility of individuals within a legal person, but it refers to legal and physical persons. There may be some indiscretion left. In the light of this law, you have cited a lot of things that represent the indeterminateness of the previous law. You've defined all this as the causes of all those bad phenomena that occur in the area of competition. From the point of view of the Serbian Radical Party, for all bad phenomena in the area of competition, that is, the appearance of the dominant position of individuals, perhaps the reason is not the indetermination of the law that has so far been in place. Most of the reason, I think, is the absence of political will and determination to take the state seriously and responsibly and responsibly to those who abuse the position of domination in the area of competition. I don't think the state, besides everything it says, really had the strength or the courage to deal with competition, or individuals in the area of competition. For us, it's also... (President: Excuse me, will you proceed from your time? Here you go. Yeah, I'll be there in a little while. It is also unacceptable for us that the reasons for the adoption of this law are dominantly linked to European integration. On the one hand, we regret that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not understanding and experiencing the need to deal with the same abuses in the area of competition. It is regrettable that you associate this with the EU when we are witnessing the fact that the same ones who are the worst, the most unscrupulous in the area of competition are organising your meetings in Brussels, in European institutions; or, if they do not organise them, at these meetings and meetings, they are an inevitable factor. That is why we believe that, regardless of your definition, you should accept a good number of amendments to the opposition, to show a difference compared to others from your government. This law, in principle, will not remain until the end what you expect or what we all need to receive by one of these laws. I think this assembly will soon be in a position to amend and supplement the law that will be the result, let me say, of all those findings that we now insist on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22806	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Yes, I'm sorry, I didn't see, Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22807	It is really not clear why you insist on these words "or statehood". You're just confusing, because all the participants on our market are equal and equal, both on the market, so they're equal and equal from the point of view of regulations and laws. Why are you putting in a story now that, eventually, a foreigner who operates and participates in our market should be equal to the domestics? Well, that's understood. You just gave one different formulation. What you could do positively, you tried to define in a negative way, completely unnecessary, to create confusion. You will, above all, confuse the Commission, confuse the market participants. I have to tell you that what you wrote isn't true. Do you know why it's not true? Mladjan Dinkic wanted to faint when he heard during the sale of Delta Bank that he owned the Delta Bank from Cyprus, not Serbia. You have our banks. Tell me, who owns these banks, Raiffeisen, Bank of Intects, that we go in a row? What's their national status? How are you going to define statehood? Where are they registered? They're registered with us. The second criterion, what is founding capital? It's hard to determine. If you determine according to the Agency for Economic Registers, you will see that there is mixed capital, both our and our capital from abroad. Why are you inserting statehood as something? What did you want to show? What is the goal of these words that all are equal and equal? That's what the Constitution tells you. How can he not order? I guess you, air-conditioned so the Constitution doesn't impose. How can the Constitution promote discrimination? In the Constitution, they're all equal in front of the law. The only kind of inequality when it comes to legal persons is those enterprises that were founded with foreign capital, so-called "legal" companies. foreign investment, so their legal position and benefits were frozen at the time of the registration of such a company. But that concept is leaving too. Why? Because the capital no longer knows the limits. You totally don't need what you've put into law. When you put something in the law, you're fundamentally instigating suspicion in everyone that something is planned, because it can't be explained rationally. That's why we've tabled an amendment, to clear the bill from something that's stupid, which is ballast, which is an unnecessary burden, which can confuse. Uncertainty is the worst thing, like half the truth worse than any lie. That's why we submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22808	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Krasic, as amended by Mr Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22809	The amendment requires that the words "or similar" should be deleted in Article 6(3) following the words "there are the same" in the words "or similar". Why? Because it can confuse you. This is why it can be confused: this article refers to something that is generally poorly defined in this draft law in Article 6. This is – the relevant market. I think it would be more correct if you wrote – the market because participants exist on a market. If you say “the relevant market, ” you try to determine it in some way. The whole territory of the Republic of Serbia is the market. Any place where offers and requests and requests or encounters offer and demand is a market, by definition; there may be some goods, services etc. There's no need to go into these things here. Why do we ask that these words “or similar ” be deleted? For the simple reason that few people probably know how this anti-monopoly commission works and what problems it's facing. In order for it to work successfully, there must be very precise provisions in the regulations that define its competences, measures and all that it has to do. Why? If there's no precision, it goes into improvisation, and then from the insinuation, it's a real fact, assuming, let's assume even worse, and the whole business is decommissioned. Because probably the hardest job in determining the actual state of play for a future decision is a job that needs to be done by an anti-monopoly commission. In order to understand what this is about, you should practically have the Institute of Social Sciences, the Institute of Economics, which should make such an analysis of the situation on the market, and people who know very well all aspects of the market and on the side of the offer and on the side of demand, and not globally for all types of goods, but for some time for very specific or specific types of goods where there is a monopoly, or where there is a danger of curbing competition. If in this business, which should be done by experts, and I don't think we have in the state of experts dealing with analysis in a quality way, we have a lot of those who improvise, if in those provisions that they need to apply you put these arbitrary terms, then you'll have a situation – and you may not have to. Which area? In that area, the anti-monopoly commission is in the area where certain exact facts are to be established to apply the regulation. That is why it is possible that someone who is obviously a monopolies, or someone who apparently has a dominant position and abuses it, by the commission, is amnested, to make an analysis based on these formulas “the same or similar” and to spray it all. On the occasion of the other members, we will be a little more specific about individual markets of certain types of goods, where you will see how wrongly this Article 6 is. I believe that 10-15 years ago there was a much better formulation of the market in the anti-monopol law of that time, but you left it because you're really incriminating towards the EU and you think everything that's written there is good. People need to understand, we cannot have a state and market organisation of Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France or Germany copying and copying into the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because there are a large number of problems and a large number of differences that do not allow it. And if that's done, then this turns out to be tragic, ridiculous and devastating. You've seen this with these independent regulatory body projects of yours with your agency project. She saw a frog soaring, so let's get her foot up too. That's not how it works. Besides, there's got to be a material conjecture for all of this. It is easy for those there, who have an average salary of 3,000 euros, to have 25 agencies, but what should our people do with an average salary of 300 euros? Can this country or this economy pay? You forget about it, you just say - we'll get access funds and we'll be able to use funds. It's the hip of the year. What did you use? What's come, who knows where it's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22810	Thank you. You've spent time with an authorised representative, 15 minutes. Or do you want it to be of that total time? Just so you have orientation, let me tell you how much time it's wasted. The 6th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ivan Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22811	Thank you. At first, thank you for accepting these two amendments, and I think that of the 15 amendments, as you pointed out yourself, this explains a lot of things. We've submitted an amendment to article 6, and that's why we have a series of amendments that are more or less of the same character. Our amendment is double, and it refers to the final position of this member, where the government is closer to laying down criteria for determining the relevant market. We have proposed that these criteria be laid down by the Commission, i.e. to prescribe them. We think it's very important. The explanation we have received is that it is impossible for the Commission, as a professional operating body, to prescribe certain conditions and to implement them at the same time. Unfortunately, I think that, at least since 2000, you have been denied practice in several cases. It is very possible, and it is precisely one of the things that do or contributes to the independence of that body, that is, the authority that this body has. There are many examples. If we're talking about the authorities of the administration, it's the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which is closer to prescribing conditions for obtaining national frequencies or any other permits, same as under the law, but then conducting competitions. If we're talking about a general level of state, the High Council of Justice is closer to laying down criteria for selecting judges, and then selecting them. It's a political decision. We said that the law is good and that it defines to a good extent the rules of conduct, but there will always be a public suspicion, more or less justified, of the independence of the Commission. If the idea of the Commission being independent, we will see this already when the Commission members are elected, because then hearings of the members of the Commission will be held in parliament, each will have to propose a plan, there will be plenty of room for public debate on each plan and will be chosen on that basis. Or, otherwise, they will be chosen as this Anti-Corruption Agency, in a scandalous way, with biographies of three sentences in which it says - suggested by Mr Tadic. It was one of the biographies, so we're suggesting it was the President of the Republic. If there is a clear will, specifically in the relevant market, we don't think there's room for politics. If this were to be transferred to the Commission, only professional reasons would be decisive. Every government, without any intention of talking about you, every government is a political authority and it would constantly try to influence those rules to be a little different. We do not see why the definition of each relevant market would not be adopted by the Commission. The second part applies to the second term, but we put it in this article of the law to define or clarify part of Article 3. That's what we talked about in the principle debate. It is clear that at this point there must be some monopolies because they are, we can talk about EPS, about electricity distribution, but we wanted to put in one principle section, in which there would be a Commission obligation to sort of put it. If we are talking about part three, we see that the proposed provision in Article 3 of the law is a standard formulation from the founding contracts of the EU. There is another part of these founding contracts, which says that in a period of transition each country will seek to ensure competitiveness in these markets as well. And that's what we had, knowing it's impossible for someone to predict deadlines, but simply as a principled provision that would direct the work of the Commission and the Government on that matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22812	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22813	Thank you. Just a brief comment. Mr Andric, if this amendment related to Article 6 were accepted, we would see an inappropriate concentration of authority in the Competition Protection Commission. We have proposed a medium solution, where the Commission is the only authorised proponent of all regulations and sublegal acts, and somewhere not logical, I agree that there are such examples in our legislation, but I don't think these are good examples, I would even say that practice has shown that they do not work as we would like. This is why we didn't accept this amendment. The Commission's independence here is, on a number of grounds, cemented. The choice of members of the Commission and the President is something that is the work of this body, the National Assembly and all of you, so it is up to you who will be in the Commission. I will mention once again that the Committee on Trade, Tourism and Services is a committee in which the opposition has a majority, or official Commission members in the National Assembly. The second thing, indeed, is that the Commission should propose solutions through its professional services. It's the government that adopts them, but it doesn't bring them. That's why we didn't propose this. This is an operational, medium solution that is much more acceptable and realistic than some solution that we have in the legislation, and the practice has shown that not everyone is happy with how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22814	Parliamentarians Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras together submitted the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras. The word is Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22815	Mr. Milosavljevic, Mr. Minister, a medium solution would be to define the relevant market by law. We suggested that he be defined by the Commission, you say the government needs him. That's not the middle solution. The middle solution is this particular article 11. We propose defining an important part of the relevant market. You reject the amendment, where we have put the exact formulation – that an important part of the relevant market implies a specific geographical area in which the product is placed on the market and where the conditions of competition are sufficiently homogeneous for the effect of the economic power of the participants whose position is being examined. If you had accepted this amendment, it would have been a medium solution. You say this amendment is not accepted because this member speaks of conditions for exemption from ban. That's an explanation for not accepting this amendment. I remind you to read this article. In this article, you who wrote the law introduce the formulation, see the last sentence: "... they shall not exclude competition on the relevant market or on its essential part.’; Here you wrote "an important part of the relevant market". We said, "Let's define what it is." You're telling us - we won't accept the amendment, this doesn't apply. That's exactly what it's all about. It would not be a problem if this law did not make it clear that when you mention the relevant market, you think of the whole of Serbia. See the first position in Article 10: “Restrictive agreements are agreements between market participants that aim to or result in significant restrictions, violations or prevention of competition in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. “ What about limiting competition in part of the territory, in Belgrade, for example? You are constantly trying to, as I say, exempt Belgrade and an important part of the market from, conditionally speaking, clear competencies of the Commission. You are introducing a relevant market; in law it is clear that you are thinking about all of Serbia when you mention an important part of the relevant market; we propose a formulation and you say – can't. So this would be a medium solution: to define what is an important part of the market, not the Government or the Commission, if you do not already want to give such power to the Commission. So, it's pointless to say that you don't accept the formulation of an important part of the market in a member who first and only mentions an important part of the market, an important part of the relevant market.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22816	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22817	I thank you, sir. I will remain for these interventions. Don't you also think that each case is individual to be led before the Commission and that, for each individual case, depending on the case, the relevant market is defined? Because it is simply one thing to put it into law and generalise, and the other is life and practice that allows the Commission to define for a specific case what the relevant market will be. Otherwise, another thing about amendments to the SPS – JS Group: we have accepted that the entry into force of the law should be related to the adoption of all sublaws, including these regulations, just to make the rules of the game clear, but it is simply impossible to generalise all by law. Each case will be special and the powers that the Commission has will then be used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22818	Thank you. Sir, I'll stay, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22819	Mr. Minister, it's not clear. You say – we will define by sublegal acts what is the relevant market, and then we will apply the law. What's controversial about defining the law? You're not going to change government regulations from case to case that define an important part of the relevant market, are you? It is precisely the criteria that we propose as an essential part of the market; in the case of firm A, when applied, these criteria cover one market, in the case of firm B, these same criteria include another, but the criteria are the same and defined by law, and they are not changed by sublaw. What we're proposing is cleaner, clearer and fairer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22820	The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22821	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment on behalf of the SRS and I have proposed a solution that I consider absolutely acceptable, because the proposed norm is not acceptable and it is not effective, and on the other hand, it is a delay in relation to these provisions which relate to these norms which provide for the draft of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to protection from competition, I will take the opportunity to look back, as this concerns renting state agricultural land in 2007, 2008 and 2009. In fact, huge areas of state agricultural land were not leased in accordance with the law and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were not allowed to participate at the same time in such markets. Huge areas of agricultural land have been leased to individuals who have not even paid the rent or do not pay the rent regularly, and conclude the contract, but do not execute the contract. On the territory of South Banat, when it comes to the municipalities of Pančevo, Kovin, Alibunar, Plandište, Opovo, Kovačica, Vršac and the White Church, there are many irregularities. In this direction, huge funds are not collected to enter the Republic of Serbia's budget. When it comes to competition, it is the fact that the government has not taken care of whether citizens are given the opportunity to participate in the lease of state agricultural land or only to individuals, tycoons, and even from Croatia and Slovenia, who have rented thousands and thousands of hectares of land or bought. I'll use the party time if I can. Gentlemen, we see that Serbia's largest robbery was in the agrarian. Why didn't the agricultural holdings in the large areas pre-park and allow 10, 20, 30 or 50 hectares to compete and the peasants, our paori, who need land and can handle it qualityly? How is it possible, for example, for Nicovic to have 960 hectares in Banatski Brestovac without paying the rent, according to the Pančevo municipality report? Then, Radovanchev, Alex and others, billions of dinars are at stake. There's no protection from competition here, there's protection from tycoons and those who do huge damage to the state. Minister Dragin started when we from the SRS, Mr Krstin, Plužarevic and other MPs, presented and met the National Assembly, and asked the Government that in Vojvodina, the tycoon's tycoon's nest from Croatia, such as Pevec, Agrokor and others rich in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that our citizens have no rights, nor can they participate equally in the auctions. Minister Dragin said the government was forced, as did the ministry, so he confirmed our accusations that there were numerous abuses, that about 200 lawsuits were filed for termination of the contract or for abuse of official office. With this law and competition in mind, I'm going to ask one more question. There's Minister Milosavljevic from the government, let him answer me if he can; if he can't, I'm asking the government for an answer. How is it possible to pass a rule on the fees and rewards of bankruptcy managers, and that a bankruptcy manager, such as Moldovan Stevan, is leading a large number of bankruptcys and is to take a huge amount of money? As such a bankruptcy manager, only in the case of Agroziva in Pancheva should he receive 580,000 euros. I asked the government and the relevant resolutions, but I don't get concrete answers – first, how many bankruptcy proceedings did Stevan Moldovan take part in and what trade courts in Serbia? The issue should be answered by the government, the economy ministry, the justice ministry, the finance ministry and trade courts and the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers. Who signed the decision to set up Stevan Moldovan as a bankruptcy manager in all proceedings? How can a bankruptcy manager appear 200 kilometers from Sudotica to Pancheva, and in Pancheva territory we have more than a hundred economists licensed for bankruptcy managers? What are the companies, and where are they from, that Stevan Moldovan hired as evaluators to carry out an estimate of the capital of the bankruptcy debtors? How many bankruptcy debtors have been reorganised, and how many bankruptcy debtors have been bankrupted and the sale of assets? Names and names of natural and legal persons who appear as bankruptcy creditors in cases where Molodvan Stevan acted as a bankruptcy manager and how recognised and paid for by the bankruptcy director Moldovan Stevan? That Moldovan stevan protects a lot of people. From which party, I don't know, but the rules on fees and awards have been signed by the minister of regional development and economy, Mr Dinkic. If you look at the provisions of that rule, it's a rule that allowed a new type of crime. You have this situation: the bankruptcy mass of 1,200 euros; for the creditors, it goes 200 euros, and 1,000 euros goes to the bankruptcy manager. That's the case you have at the Panchev Trade Court. What are we gonna do about it? What about the bankruptcy directors when it comes to government gentlemen, the department store in Belgrade? Is it true that the bankruptcy manager took fourm euros for the bankruptcy of Belgrade's shopping houses? Why are harmful contracts for the lease of state agricultural land being concluded? Why is land not pitched and allowed to be used under equal conditions by peasants, under equal conditions, by 10, 20, 30 hectares, but by large tycoons who process large areas of land and do not pay rent? On the other hand, the peasants were prevented from competing on equal terms, so they were disproved. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking for answers to these questions. First, will you put the rulebook out of effect, Mr. Minister? Take the Prime Minister to the government and inform the Prime Minister that the rule on the fees and rewards of the bankruptcy managers has, above all, allowed individuals to be rich in damage to citizens, workers and trustees. Secondly, I request a report on how much state land has been leased, in hectares, individuals in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. At what price? How is it possible in one municipality, a village to the village, a plot to the plot, for one to pay 50,000 rent, and for another to 8,000, and a plot to the plot? It's a possibility for individuals to get rich. You have a case that a man owes millions and millions to rent state land, and now he's allowed to buy 4,000 ha of the most fertile land in the Pancheva municipality. So, you're doing some analysis. Take appropriate measures. The police here must interfere, the prosecution, and the Ministry, as Mr. Dragin has announced, must implement this project and the agrarian mafia will be stopped and citizens will be allowed to use state agricultural land on equal terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22822	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 57 minutes and 40 seconds. The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22823	Thank you. Dear Mr. Jojic, 99.99% of what you have said has nothing to do with the law on competition protection, but respecting the importance of agrarians for Serbia and Serbia's economy and for all of us, I will make a few brief comments. It is true that there were problems and that there were problems regarding the granting of state agricultural land to rent. It's something that lasts. At the time I was Minister of Agriculture, it was about a year ago, we were working under the Law on Agricultural Land, where municipalities, the authorities of the municipality conducted public auctions, always and in any case, to rent land. We agreed on what municipalities or municipal management or competent commissions conducted. I agree with you only that there was a problem. I agree with you that many did not pay the price, as I agree with you and that there were different prices that were auctioned for very similar parcels and very similar land. But simply, if someone in some place offered a higher price than a similar plot, that's his problem. It is also an object, as well as any contract, respect or non-compliance with contractual obligations. If the contract is concluded and one party does not pay, it is known who is in charge and who should implement the contract – it is the competent judicial authorities. One more thing, as far as bankruptcy managers and the compensation of bankruptcy managers are concerned, it's a really current question, but I don't see any personal connection to it, it's a question primarily for commercial courts, and I think this issue of asking bankruptcy managers and fees should be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22824	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22825	I own, Mr. Minister, the contracts you signed, and that's for Dolovo, Apple, two in the populated place of Apple, Dolovo the second, Omojica the third, Armenians the fourth, Banatski Brestovac the fifth, etc., not to mention. This was signed by Mr. Milosavljevic. Please, will you come and take a look? Please come see if this is your signature, so we don't give it to a graphologist. Are you saying you didn't sign it? Were these contracts harmful or not? Please make an insight into the cash register, whether the Republic of Serbia's budget has yet to receive money from this lease. These are harmful contracts. Abuse is pure. Huge funds are not paid into the budget. Now, Mr. Dragin, who is indeed taking action, is now on the move, according to our knowledge, certain measures. This is where the damage came in for the state. That's the damage someone has to answer for. You're saying this has nothing to do with competition. What do you mean, it's gone? How come there's no bankruptcy manager when we have over 500 licensed bankruptcy managers? It's competition on the market in trade courts. You are a representative of the government here, Mr. Minister; when you hear this question from the MP, you should not laugh, but come here and kneel, to beg the MPs to tell you what the problems of peasants are in the country, that the state does not suffer any harm. You're different from the current minister important. You've been a year. Here are your contracts, which you signed in a year, run the analysis and give the math, to see how much it's paid. My intention is to get the money into the register. There's no such thing as wisdom. You can't tell me this doesn't get into the area of competition. Everything enters the area of competition: and the lease of state land, and the licensing of managers, and the lease of building land, the lease of business premises and business space. All that, Mr. Minister, is primarily competition. We must fight those who abuse certain situations and circumstances in order to take advantage of the opportunity on the market to pass more favourably and to the detriment of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22826	The word has a minister. Please, just register. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22827	Thank you. There's no reason for you, Mr. Jojits, to get angry. Indeed, as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I have signed those contracts. Once again, if you do not know, to make it clear to you – all public auctions for renting agricultural land were carried out by the authorities of municipalities, local self-government. This comes only to the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture and the minister, practically on duty, sign these contracts. Once again, we agree that every single dinar that is qualified should come into the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also, I cannot personally, neither my predecessor nor my successor, be responsible for someone's failure to respect the contractual obligation. When a person fails to comply with the contractual obligation, it is known what sanctions are being imposed on him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22828	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Jojic, because even in your previous address, you have not disputed what the minister was saying. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22829	Of course, all that is goods, all that is service and what is found on the market is the subject of this law, and Mr. Jojic was right when he said it. The biggest possible abuse of market positions is in some way legalized by the Public Procurement Act. That's what you need to know. The Commission established under the Public Procurement Act has some reports, where it finds a large number of irregularities in the application of the law, which is essentially the use of a monopoly. And to understand how complex that is, it's on the border with a white collar, you know. Take Miskovic. He couldn't have been this successful if he wasn't in the police, the military, the banks, the National Bank, in every ministry, and in the Assembly, everywhere, his people who work for him. They guarantee him the position on the market and he appears as a "good Mara" for everyone. But, Mr. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to a few more things that are covered by this amendment, but also to a few details that are not covered by any amendment by the Members of Parliament. If you would be so kind as to listen, for your sake, for the government and for the future members of this committee to apply this law. You see, I don't know why you wrote in Article 7 'Account of annual income' and defined how annual income for banks is calculated. I don't know. We have the Bank Act, we have other regulations; that law sets out exactly what the bank's income is. Why do you define something with this article, and it's not the subject of this law, it's already defined by certain regulations? It's the same situation with insurance companies. At the very least, we have general accounting and audit regulations, but I don't know, you're going with this. What's the difference? Why is it necessary for there to be a difference here compared to those regulations that have already been prescribed? It's not clear. The injury to competition, Article 9 – the word “significant” from the point of view of law means nothing. What's significant, 10%, 60%, 90%? Who has this scale to measure the weight to conclude that it's significant? That's the arbitrary thing to do. That discretion must not exist in the application of the law. In article 10, you also list something "significant", significant restriction, violation. It's immeasurable, and this law must be precise. Now, let me go back to these amendments. Isn't it a little degutant that the Government prescribes the content of the requirements set out in Article 1(1), which you wrote in the last position of Article 12? It's an individual exemption from the ban. Isn't that devaluation of the government of the Republic of Serbia? The government of the Republic of Serbia adopts sublegal acts, most often by some regulations, as general acts that have something being resolved, and the form requires or something that should be in the form, the minister prescribes. Why did you put it to be the government's jurisdiction? What is so significant in that pattern requires that you must... ? Usually, the form is required by the rules. The government's basic sub-legislative act is a regulation, a regulation on the appearance of a request. It sucks. I don't know why you're devaluing it so much. There's no need. Conditions for exemption from ban, Article 11 – you have left out something, and this is usually used as a formulation, not to impose restrictions. That should be explained, both in this tied-up trade and in that trade that's conditioned. Surely you know, all major companies that have their own specific product, which, by that name, almost have no competition on the market, have their own internal commercial character acts, under which conditions they sell goods, and even go to what amount they can, what is the rebate, payment, etc. They have almost prescribed some of their general conditions and under these conditions they give a number of restrictions. They justify the need for security, the need to secure payment, the need to cultivate a business relationship, to develop this business relationship, to improve this business relationship. In essence, this often goes to the limit imposed by the producer of certain goods and thus closes the market of its products for some other buyers, i.e. buyers in the purchase. That has to be regulated. With these general character formulations, you're practically sending a message to this law -- we'd like to sort something out, but we don't know how to do it, we don't know how to fix it, so we're going to leave it to the Anti-Monopoly Commission. The Antimonopoly Commission should apply the law, not write the rules. Are you aware of the problems we have with the Securities Commission and some other so-called Commissions that are neither a state body of inspection, supervisory character, nor a regulatory body, have already become mini-governments or mini-ministries that are prescribed by some rules of conduct? This has to be avoided. Anything that enters the system of state authorities below the level of the Assembly, below the level of the Government, must subsistencely apply the regulation, not create a regulation. You like this – we will not regulate by law, we cannot legally predict all situations, then let someone, or by nature of things, impose the need for some other sublegal act, with some over-expanded interpretation of the legal basis, to write a new regulation. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22830	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22831	Again, but now allow me to develop a debate, again an individual exemption from the ban, and the government is drawing closer to regulations the content of the requirements of Article 1. We think that's what the commission's supposed to do. Now let me just say a few words. The main problem with harmonising our legal system with the legal system of the European Union is that certain tasks are carried out by the European Commission. When we rewrite all these parts of the law that apply to the rules of conduct, there's always that difference, if I'm not mistaken, about who's going to do it with us. It's the only part of the law that's practically different from these directives. That's where most of our amendments apply to that. Let me tell you something, I have to admit, Mr. Minister, that you just brought me into a little confusion, because when you say that the Commission is proposing and the government is bringing it, it sounds really logical, but it doesn't say it in the law. The law does not state that the Commission is the only one competent to propose these acts. It is indisputable that there is the Commission's jurisdiction in a member, that I am not asking now, it is 21, but it is a different formulation that we had in the laws when we wanted to prescribe something like what you said. At that time, the formulation would be – the government is closer to prescribing the content of the requirements set out in Article 1, on a proposal from the Commission for the Protection of Competition. This opens up the possibility that the Government, firstly, does not adopt the acts proposed by the Commission; secondly, to adopt acts which differ from those proposed by the Commission and third, to amend them. That's exactly what we were talking about. If the only difference is who is implementing them, we do not understand why it is understood that there is a possibility in the Commission of some kind of abuse, and it is not understood that this possibility exists in the Government. From our point of view, it's perfectly logical that we're more suspicious of the government, which is a political organ... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... but on the Commission, which should be some independent body consisting of experts. We have a whole series of amendments in which we propose that the government give up these possibilities. If this is what you said, then the formulation would really be if the government brought it, on a proposal from the Commission, and then you would be right. It's not like this. I'm not saying it was your intention, but I'm saying there is a possibility of obstruction of the Commission's work by not making their proposals. Two, there is a change, and then it will be resolved in some kind of public scandal, which will not benefit either the Commission or the Government and especially society. In particular, in this article, we also don't understand why the government wants to keep... Or it was a matrix and it was all done that way. This member is particularly problematic because he leaves one thing that is a matter of assessment, from the preceding article, Article 11: “... where they contribute to the improvement of production and transport, i.e. to fostering technical or economic progress’, etc. So it could be some kind of analysis that's a matter of assessment, which can be done one way or another. You're nodding your head now, but I'm simply saying there's a possibility, I'm not accusing you of any intention. There's a possibility. Our idea was to give it all to the Commission and then to put the work of that commission under the public's baton and to make it, in a way, public opinion forced it to do so in a way that is best for society. We are not prepared to accept the explanation that the Commission is the only proposing and that the Government will control the Commission's work in this way. Simply, it kind of degrades the work of the commission itself. If this is all done, then the Commission is more of a administrative body that only has to oversee law enforcement. I think the idea, which has been here since the beginning, is that the Commission is the body or body that leads to the protection of competition in the country. Given that it is not elected in the elections, that it is not directly a state body, that no persons are appointed, that is to say, the possibility of competition has been eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22832	The remaining time available to the LDP parliamentary group is seven minutes and thirty seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 13th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Lidija Dimitrijevic and Milos Radulović, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Arsen Đurić submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 13, paragraph 2, reads: "The restrictive agreements which meet the conditions laid down in Article 1, paragraph 1, shall not be submitted to the Commission for exemption. “ The conditions are laid down in Article 11 of this proposal, which states: “Restrictive agreements may be exempt from the prohibition if they contribute to the improvement of production and transport, i.e. to fostering technical and economic progress, and provide consumers with a fair share of the benefits, provided that they do not impose restrictions on market participants which are not necessary to achieve the objective of the agreement, i.e. not to exclude competition on the relevant market or its essential part. "The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to submit all restrictive agreements to the Commission to protect competition, because they are, in fact, monopoly agreements. That is why the amendment to this Article 13 has also been tabled. You have decided to reject this amendment, explaining: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the purpose of Article 13(2) is to reduce the administrative burden on economic operators, as well as to reduce the burden on the Commission in cases of minor importance. “ I feel that the restrictive i.e. Monopolistic agreements cannot in any way be subjects of minor importance to the Competition Protection Commission, on the contrary, because of such contracts it all begins, that is the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22834	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22835	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, the Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 13(2), which, in this form proposed by the Proposer, reads: "The restrictive agreements which meet the conditions laid down in Article 1 of this Article are not to be submitted to the Commission for exemption. “ The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to delete this position, because we believe that everything that is decided on competition protection must go through the procedure and that procedure must be before the Commission, which should be an independent body, an independent institution, although I see that the promoter here says it will be controlled by the Government. Otherwise, if this position 2 is not really deleted, various abuses, machinations, corruption may occur. The point of this amendment that we've submitted is to make sure it doesn't come to that. Because everything that happens later, all sorts of abuses are paid at the end of the day by citizens, and the benefits come from tycoons or someone else. You wrote here in your explanation that the amendment is not accepted because the purpose of Article 13(2) is to reduce the administrative burden on economic operators, as well as to reduce the Commission's burden on matters of minor importance. I don't know how we can know what's less important to us. This immediately associated me with what we have done as a "service" of public procurement, that there are public procurements up to a certain amount which are not subject to regular procedures. As soon as you make that kind of exception, you have an open space for various types of manipulation. That's why I think the amendment submitted by the DSS Group is quite correct and should be accepted. If I were right, and that's why I'm saying this, I was reminded today by an article I read in today's press. It is an article in which a small interview with the Vice President of Fiat Altaville was published, which of course continues... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'll move on to group time, that manipulation that started before the elections, that circus called making cars in the flag. When journalists ask him when he will pay what is his obligation of 200,000 euros, to which he is bound by a contract with the Serbian government, at least as far as we know, he says he will not talk about it, because it is not the time to talk about it. He literally says: "The financial conditions are not for the public. These are private matters between the Fiat and the Serbian government." Imagine, please, a private matter to be paid by the citizens of Serbia! Someone has a contract to make certain sums of money pay periodically, 200,000 euros a gentleman should pay, but he appears here today and says it is a private matter between him and the Serbian government. Please explain to us and tell us if there are any other private matters of this type, which we, as MPs, should know or think that this should remain a secret because it is so private that even the representatives of the people should know nothing about it. But the private secret of Mr. Tadic, Dinkic, Cvetkovic, to God, because you are part of that Serbian government and how it costs Serbian citizens, and here is how it costs them: today's information, the consumer basket is more expensive today than December 5,617 dinars, and compared to March 8,897 dinars. Mr. Minister, so much for you and the government, which is incompetent and completely inefficient, you cost every family in this country. That's all you've been costing them since December to this day. Given how you work, how you wave, and how you make these laws, where the members we change because we believe that you will not wipe out citizens, this relationship between the consumer basket and everything else will be, at the expense of the citizens, by the end of the year and twice as much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22836	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22837	Thank you, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. A very short comment: it was just the application of the Competition Protection Act in the previous four years that the Competition Protection Commission was, I would say, unwarrantedly, burdened with matters of minor importance. However, the fact that companies do not have an obligation to submit an exemption application to the Commission does not apportion those undertakings. The request can be submitted and the Commission has an obligation to do its job on that request, so that the fact that they have an obligation to apply does not mean that, if something is contrary to the law, they will not come under the influence of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22838	The DSS Group is available for 22 minutes. You're using a replica right now? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22839	Thank you, Mr. Minister. You explained exactly as you wrote here in your explanation. I totally understand the explanation, but I'm talking about something called life. One of your predecessors, Minister of Ecology in the previous term, spent 11,000,000 euros on mosquitoes, ambrosia and ticks. It wasn't his jurisdiction, it was your ministry's jurisdiction today. I don't know how many times the DSS Group has spoken from this place and asked the authorities if they're going to do something about it, so since they haven't, I have to say that this amendment that we've submitted right now is meant for this kind of thing not to happen, because what someone can't and it has to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22840	The word has Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22841	If you'll excuse me, this last thing you said has absolutely nothing to do with this law, and I didn't understand the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Trade of mosquitoes, it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22842	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 51 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22843	You were Minister of Agriculture, and Dragin was Minister of Ecology. In November, he gave to spray against mosquitoes, and mosquitoes grew and became storks. You think that's funny? But there's no 11,000,000. Some are crying because there are no 11,000,000. But let's go back to these amendments regarding something. In principle, I tried to convince you, I failed. But I haven't done many things in my life, so why should I worry about not being able to convince you? You see, in monopoly agreements, which you now treat as restrictive agreements, there are two large areas. The first area is when market participants make an agreement in order to achieve some benefit, so this agreement defines production, quantity, quality, price, market division, etc. That's a big problem. He is resolved if the Anti-Monopolitan Commission finds out that such an agreement exists and can then assess, and since all monopoly agreements are by definition nothing, then some legal consequences are going. However, you are now in Article 10, etcetera, stating that a participant in a restrictive agreement is anyone who is a market participant. He is also a market participant in electricity, he is a market participant and NIS, he is a market participant in both urban and public transport. They are all market participants, but the founding rights over them are exercised by the rightholder on behalf of the State for the state property that is present in these companies. It's somewhere the body of the unit of local self-government, it's sometimes the government, some time the Property Directorate, the Colloquial State. The state, faced with problems in the functioning of the public enterprise, is authorized to prescribe certain conditions. We also have special laws that regulate the business of these companies. The question arises – when such a public undertaking of republican or local importance, respecting the conditions of its founder, the requirements of its founder, prescribes its general conditions of business, and enters into some business relations with some of the market participants, and their agreement can be monopolistic, who is the source of such a monopoly agreement? On the side of a public enterprise – its founder, the state. Why didn't you prescribe or predict mechanisms for all such cases to give a previous opinion to the Anti-Monopolitan Commission, both in terms of general terms and in terms of price formation? A small price remained in the jurisdiction of the state – energy, medicines, but in the jurisdiction of the state is also the price of water, urban transport. In such situations, this so-called natural monopoly, or monopoly that cannot be avoided, is kept under control. Under this law and according to existing regulations, the authority that kept it under control was not an anti-monopolis committee, but a state, the competent authority of the state. This is why amendments, such as the next amendment by Mr Jeremic and Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic, are followed, where they are intervened in Article 13(3). You see, they're right about those MPs who asked that all these agreements that could be associated with the establishment of a monopoly should go to the Commission's previous evaluation. The Commission would be buried, and I fully agree with that, it would not be able to lift its head just from those agreements. But there is also a methodology to review this agreement. Even so, life disproves us, one writes in the agreement, and in practice it can be quite another and quite third. I think these provisions will work. 12 and 13, and, in particular, give the conditions in Article 11 to exempt from the ban, simply to enable the Commission to put a finger on the head, so who gets what breaks down. There are no tangible criteria. Even that criterion will not appear in Article 13, the final position where you authorise the government to prescribe. Even here won't be able to solve that problem. The rule is that the law regulates the way of achieving some freedom, the rights of citizens. This applies, in part, to consumer rights and how it will achieve what the state guarantees, but also to the rights and legal interests of market participants, and to natural and legal persons engaged in certain activities. That is why it is necessary for this law to be maximumly concrete, that only certain small things be left to the Government, possibly the Ministry and, possibly, some of the operational matters of the anti-monopoly Commission’s organisation to the Commission itself. The basic purpose of every law, which is why there's a deadline between law-making and its application, is that when a man reads the law, everything becomes clear. When a man reads this law, he'll say: this is clear to me, but I don't understand what the government needs to arrange; well, this is clear to me, and this isn't clear to me, it should just be the government to sort it out. How will the government handle it? Well, if Miskovic has his own government, then you know how he'll handle it. If Miskovic could bring the future government to Olli Rehn and agree on the composition of the government; if Miskovic could have said - you must be in charge of the IMF to cover my losses of several billion, and we are now formally and legally paying off the debts of Miskovic, his uncontrollable expansion (or, the question is whose capital under his name), excuse me, it is a fact... So we insist on the specific provisions of the law, all to be prescribed, to regulate, so that one who enforces this law can be better controlled.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22844	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22845	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, as explained in Article 13. The proposal for a law on the protection of competition provided by the proposing, resolutely the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, states: “For certain categories of agreements, which can contain elements of restrictiveness, the possibility of exemptions under a specific government regulation, which prescribes what categories of those agreements and under which special conditions, in addition to the general conditions laid down in Article 11, are subject to their exemption. It is a block exemption, and these agreements are subject to a presumption of authorisation, since they are not subject to an exemption from the ban from the Commission. “ There is also an amendment on behalf of the SRS Group submitted to Article 13(2). It is said that this disputed provision, i.e. the word ‘no’, is deleted. Therefore, restrictive agreements which fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 1, in the opinion of the SRS Parliamentary Group, should be submitted to the Commission for exemption. We see that the previous attempt by a colleague of Lidija Dimitrijevic, related to eradicating the whole attitude, was unsuccessful, or failed to understand, and this is, in particular, our biggest objection to Article 13, i.e. this possibility. The reason why the amendment is rejected is because the purpose of Article 13(2) is to reduce the administrative burden on economic operators and reduce the burden on the Commission in cases of minor importance is indeed illogical and illogical, because if these restrictive agreements meet the conditions laid down in Article 1(1) of this Article, they should be submitted to the Commission, given that it is the one who decides on the exemption. The lack of obligation opens up a possibility, i.e. a space for possible irregularities. The application of such a legal solution will cause adverse effects, i.e. the consequences, so that we call on the motionor, or the minister to accept this provision because it does not lose anything, we just get a more concrete and clearer definition of the proposed member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22846	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word is Mr. Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22847	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DSS Group, we have tabled an amendment asking that article 14 be deleted. This is a member relating to the share of the relevant market. What is causing our dilemma is whether Serbia is meant by the relevant market as the whole geographical term and then by participation of 10, 20, 30%, or by a particular kind of goods. If it's a geographical term, then it's a big problem, because 90% of Belgrade's territory is a huge market that sucks up a huge number of products and participates in the market with a huge amount of goods it absorbs. What's indicative here, Mr. Minister? Today you show one exceptional value, you answer more or less of all questions, and I find it strange that you have not shown such value so far to prevent the impact of monopoly and the creation of such dominant trade chains, which significantly disrupt the domestic market. In response to why you reject our amendment, you state that it is not accepted because it does not comply with the provisions and laws of the European Union. But the fact is that, according to the most optimistic estimates, around 2015-2020, we should, according to the government's estimates, acquire some full membership in the EU, and the question is whether or not we are going to come to EU membership at all. It is obvious that standards valid in the EU do not apply here. What's an example, we can all agree, is the position of these dominant chains and monopolies in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises and independent trades. If you look at any country in the environment, you'll see that besides these maxi and mega-markets there are also small shops, both small and medium-sized enterprises. We have some areas, certain parts of cities and settlements, the county has lost more or less without these trades and complete traffic is carried out in these trade chains. This creates the dominant position of these trade chains, so that they can dictate, through the lack of competition, prices. As our colleague Milica Vojić-Markovic said, we have data that are worrying, which is an increase in consumer basket prices, i.e. basic life supplies, and only compared to December 5,317 dinars, for example, and we have information that the average plan is 32,000 dinars. Recalculate how much that is. It's only an increase in the price of basic goods from 15% to 20% in about six months. Only one average family spends 40% of their salary on food alone. The consumer basket is extremely expensive and is a burden for many citizens, so that many citizens, those who commit, together with their families, deny many things that, in normal conditions, represent the satisfaction of the basic needs of life. When we talked about the law in principle, I told you that one flaw is that we don't have a roof trade law. You said it was in the draft, but it was a matter of when it would come to congregation procedure. You said we'd have a consumer protection law by the end of the year. You yourself admitted that you and Minister Djelic participated in the task force, which identified many shortcomings and warning elements regarding price formation and consumer threat. What worries is that you said it was in the term of the last government, that there was no more past, that we had a new government and that the need for the working group had ceased. Life does not end with one government stopping, citizens staying living with their problems and it was normal, Mr. Minister, that there is continuity, that the ministry is dealing with the team, that the working group may suffer certain changes but continue to work. We have the consequences, I said already, a huge increase in prices. The prices, i.e. the currencies and payment deadlines we already talked about; I didn't have time to discuss in principle to answer you, but I can't agree with you, I'm going to quote you that "it is true that in the structure of each store in the highest percentage there are products of daily consumption, dozens of gardens of bread, flour, milk, meat products, processing, which are relatively up-to-date. Payment deadlines are 20, 30 and 45 days. “ The bread is sold on the same day, fresh meat is sold on the same day; the standards of protection themselves are such that these products are sold on the same day. Payment of 20, 30 and 45 days is already a problem for these suppliers, not to mention pasta producers, producers of conditioning products. I end up with this, I don't know if you're meeting, Mr. Minister, with someone who's involved in the production of these products and if you know what condition these people are in. These people are desperate. They can no longer cover their obligations and start an investment cycle; with the borrowing everyone has, more or less, ahead of bankruptcy. What do you think you're doing to protect them anyway? Are you only protecting those who put you together, Vlad? The government was assembled by just those monopolies, and it's known who else is next to them, and you're exclusively working on their dictatorship. Once again, the pillars of every society are just small businesses, family companies, in any healthy economic system and in any healthy state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22848	Thank you. One question, Mr. Radulovich, did you use time as an authorised representative or... (Milos Radulovic, from the post: As authorised. Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22849	Thank you. Dear Mr Radulovic, I will begin by saying thank you in front of the Ministry of Trade and Services and the Government of the Republic of Serbia: first of all, thank you for the amendments and for the good intention of making the law better and better; thank you for my efforts to respond to the amendments and their comments, and thank you for not getting involved in the work of the Competition Protection Commission, because this was the intensity of both the previous and this law that will be voted on in the day. It is not the job of the Minister of Trade to deal with monopolies, it is the Commission's job, and therefore it is enthroned as an independent body, which should do its job. As far as big and small merchants and businesses and family businesses are concerned, I agree, the basis of every economy is in a small business. The greater the number of small and medium-sized enterprises is Serbia's need, as this is a way for people to get a job and to develop family manifestations. But also (and you know it well, as a business man), there are no successful little ones without co-operation with the big ones. Each country also needs big teams that can play both regional and global games, such as thousands and hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. So, the successful small economy sector doesn't work without co-operation with the big ones. As far as payment deadlines are concerned, it is true that bread, milk and water are sold for one, two or a few days and I agree that the time limit for paying the trade chains to producers of these products should and may be shorter. Also, you as a consumer, like all MPs and ordinary people, usually because of the crisis and because of the problems we are facing, buy on a delayed basis, so it is sometimes delayed by checks and cards for 30, 60, 90 days. It's also true that these money we give, in this case the merchant, sometimes arrive at 30, 50, 70 or 90 days late. Without the prospect of defending merchants, one reason why you don't pay a day for a day or a week is because the money that traders get doesn't come in a day or seven days. We generally agree on one thing - the state must play an even more active role in these times of crisis in order to improve the liquidity of the economy. It is precisely two programmes that the government of the Republic of Serbia delivered to businesses, including the citizens of Serbia, began to produce initial but yet encouraging results in April and May. Of course, it does not need to be stopped, we should move on and we, as Government, are going to propose the necessary and possible measures to mitigate the effects of the crisis on citizens and on the economy. A brief comment on the concrete amendment: I do not want to bid on dates and years, whether 2015, 2016 or 2017 will become a member of the European Union, but by accepting and, hopefully, with the almost ratification of the SAA, we are practically starting to apply European standards. European standards are precisely the reason why this amendment cannot be accepted; European standards are not solely for the sake of the EU, but European standards for the quality of life of Serbian citizens, for the sake of better competitiveness of Serbia's economy, for the sake of a better life for all, because this is both the general interest of politicians and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22850	Here you go, Mr. Radulovich, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22851	Mr. Minister, we obviously don't get it. However, I think that if the minister of trade is a minister of trade, he must have certain powers and some influence, regardless of whether there are independent commissions. Normally, there is no need to interfere with the work of committees, but there is some strategy with which the Ministry, or Government, is taking place. Second, Mr. Minister, you're continuing to hide behind the global economic crisis. The bottom line is that we don't have a global economic crisis here, but that this is an internal economic crisis, which is taking on a growing situation. You said big trade chains, big manufacturers go into big investments to become more or less regional leaders. I want to answer something for you: this is exactly the price of these individuals wanting to be regional leaders; they reinvested, they created huge debts, they owe huge funds to banks, and it's reflected in the fact that they can't pay their obligations to suppliers, because the funds they get to sell these goods that suppliers are using to serve their commitments to banks. You know very well that these regional chains and investors are huge and that they cross a billion euros. Is it true? (Freed Milosavljevic from the scene: probably.) It's not likely, it's true. I'd like to ask you one more time... You said here bread and milk are paid by checks for 60-90 days. People pay first, every honest citizen pays bread and milk first, an honest citizen doesn't owe. The real host is the one who seeks not to owe, and these monopolies, they are not hosts, they are not working in the interests of this country. They're destroying this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22852	Thank you. The National MP Marina Ragush submitted to the 16th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22853	Mr. Novakovic, you don't want to get angry, I just want to point out a few more problems, first of all, in Article 14. These are not restrictive agreements, these are minor agreements, as you stated. However, you lack specifics about the time limit and the deadlines for the review, but I won't go any further. As for Article 15, there are no legal or factual obstacles to accessing our market, since we guarantee equality and equality. You have to define that, and when it comes to individual nominations, so probably when it comes to so-called. collective. Now Article 16 paragraph 2 point 1) – you do not know what an unfair purchase is. Ask a question in the National Assembly what unfair shopping means. No one will know to answer you. I don't know what's unfair, because if we go to the free market, that's where the offer and demand conflict, so the bargaining... You go to Turkey, he tells you – so many and so many thousands of liras, you bring it down to 10%, and you meet him at about 30% of his first price. Unless you find yourself, he gets angry too, but they like to bargain. What's an unfair purchase? How can this be an unfair purchase when the price is on the shelf, and it comes to that retail price through calculations? It's not clear. Simply, the term “irregular shopping” means nothing. Ms. Marine Ragush's amendment seeks to change point 2) in the position of Article 16(2) and to read – restrictions on production or markets. This means that this is being thrown out - technological development. I don't understand why you put technological development as something on the market. That's not clear at all, we don't even know what the point is. Now you're the victims of those sentences of yours again. It says: "restriction of production, markets". What restriction? Why did you throw out the big one now? Is it every restriction? You are now saying that what the amendment requires is not in agreement with the EU's views. What are the EU's views? Just to relate to what Milos Radulovic was just saying. Can you understand the situation that the newspapers, our printed, trafics and large chains, where the newspapers are now largely sold, owe so much that they have to be in debt, that they take loans to print newspapers, and when they have the commercial network to pay for the newspaper, they can't even cover some of the most basic costs. Unless there are two or three commercials, permanent ads, NIS, "Dunav", "Telecom", PTT or I don't know what, "Telenor" etc., he can immediately shut down the newspaper. Even if the newspapers write something that doesn't like someone who's saucy, he sends them inspections, controls, etc. And turn off the paper. Seventy-eighty percent of our newspaper is on the air, financially on the air. When they're in debt, when they take credit so they can print a new number, don't tell you how much interest comes. Ask any journalist the last time he got paid. As far as the newspapers are concerned, they don't buy checks for 60 days; the money trail, the newspaper route, but it's a collapse. Collapses, which you can't solve. Now that I've already taken this time, you know, I'm looking at what you wrote in this Article at paragraph 16, paragraph 4. – conditioning the conclusion of the contract, etc. It is clear that the bill was written by someone who had no bonds or, if he was in college and had bonds, barely passed them. But, folks, the sanctity of every contract is the consent of a foreign contractor. You've completely forgotten about that. You who go towards the market economy, allegedly a free market, apply only those centralistic methods of state socialism. I just can't figure it out. Do you understand, because of what Milos was saying earlier, you have a village, 20 km to the neighboring town or village, there is only one store in that village; from the point of view of this bill and the existing law, this company or this entrepreneur, it doesn't matter, it's in a dominant position. Even if the residents are some of the 70s and change years and there is no bus transport, he is an absolute monopoliest. Of course, it's rare when the state gets to that monopoliest. Now look, how does he form the price of his products when he's not in Belgrade, when there's additional transport costs? How do you control him and there's a need? You have socially endangered customers, consumers and you have one trader. Watch out, sometimes, while there was a social trade, every place took care of that kind of dispersion of retail facilities, so she ironed those losses, real losses for that village that was 20 km away. At the time they were smart economists, so they knew they were losing at that price in that tooth, but there was a social function and the state had some obligation. What is the social function now, and what is the national obligation? Your government is formed by Miskovic. Why would he think about society and the state? He's just thinking about his pocket, how to cover the minuses, and he's able to buy everything. Everything is on sale in Serbia and everything has a low price, everything is even below market value in Serbia. Who do we bring the law for? Miskovic will not be a monopolies, and that poor man who hired a cooperative room to build one store, so that 28 peasants around him can buy bread, meat and milk, because there are no more in the villages, he will be under the influence of this law. That's the logic. And all justice to the European Union is about to be knocked out in Brussels. It's the hip of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22854	The word is made by Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22855	Dear Mr. Krasic, regarding Article 16, it's probably a technical error in the material that you have in front of you. It states under 1 : ‘direct or indirect imposition of an unfair purchase or sale price’, not — purchases. Thus, direct or indirect imposition of unfair purchase or sale prices, unfair or unfair, rather than purchases. It's probably a technical mistake with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22856	Thank you, too. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22857	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 16. The proposal for a competition law concerns the prohibition of abuse of a dominant position on the market. We'll all agree that it's very important provisions of the law. The first point states that the abuse of a dominant position on the market is prohibited, and in the second position, what is particularly considered to be an abuse of a dominant position, so in point 2) it says: the restriction of production, market or technical development. I proposed the amendment to add the words "to the consumer's harm", as the law currently in force says so. I will read the reasons for not accepting this amendment: "The amendment is not accepted for reasons that it does not comply with the relevant legal standard of EU law to be adopted by this provision, which provides for a rule of de minimis. “ After such an explanation, I will not comment on anything, let the consumers in Serbia themselves assess whether this law is in their interest and whether it is indeed anti-monopolistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22858	Thank you. The amendment proposed to add a new member of the 16a was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đuric, Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22859	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DSS Group, we have tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of the 16a be added after Article 16. In fact, Article 16 defines what is considered to be an abuse of a dominant position, so we have suggested that a new Article 16a be added after that article, which reads: “If, by official duty or at the request of an interested person, the Commission finds that a dominant position has been misused, it provides a solution that determines the violation of Article 16 of this Law. The decision of Article 1 of this Article may set out the measures that market participants are obliged to take in order to establish competition on the relevant market and eliminate the adverse consequences of the abuse of the dominant position laid down in Article 16 of this Act, as well as deadlines for their enforcement. “ By adding this new member, they shall clearly specify and give instructions to the Commission on how to act in the implementation of the measures in the event that a dominant position is found to have been misused. In an explanation of the government which does not accept this amendment, it is said that the proposed provision is unnecessary because it is defined in the subsequent provisions of the law. We certainly feel that this provision is not unnecessary. It is true that, at the end of the law, we define the Commission's obligations, however, we believe that this proposed member of ours is significantly more precisely defined and we believe that he should stand immediately after Article 16 defining what is the abuse of a dominant position. In principle, we do not agree in concept with certain government proposals, but I believe that this amendment could have been accepted, since it does not violate the concept of the government's proposal. We believe that the adoption of this amendment would significantly correct the draft law, i.e. more precisely what the Commission should be doing in a specific case. I really don't understand why the amendment wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22860	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22861	Mr. Mirovic asked that "six months" be replaced with "three months". It is about some exceptions when it comes to market concentration. It is with us newspapers, that the concentration of capital and decision-making among market participants can be one of the types of distortions of competition on the market, and countries are fighting that kind of concentration. America was the first to go with this computer master, PC computers, however, and the EU has taken appropriate steps. Last time I took advantage of an example of fighting mobile phone operators, when it comes to roaming services, because European parliamentarians also realized that they were very expensive to talk about. Then they were interested in what, how, so they developed this story and there was this solution. I do not understand why you have inserted into the position of the 1st member of this 18th bankruptcy manager under point 4) when they are regulated by a special law. As for attitude 2, here is the full discretion of the Commission. Please, you have given full discretion to the Commission that it can extend the time limit referred to in point (1) of Article 1 to this Article – at the request of the trigger, you have taken part, provided that the sticker proves that the sale of the stock or share was not possible within the deadline, but for a maximum period of six months. Let me just remind you, we'll probably have another item on the agenda during the day, we have a agenda item relating to changes to the investment fund laws, and there's a possibility for the founders of the Investment Fund Management Society to increase their participation beyond what is prescribed by the law. So the law is changing now, so it doubles that percentage. It was a European standard, now it's a European standard again, and the difference is 100% between the first and the second. This is where you went further, and you said, "The Commission will evaluate." The Commission will assess if someone has acquired a large amount of stock in one of the market participants, and is already a market participant and there; then, based on ownership and on participation in governance, it has a significant position, which distorts competition. You're giving time of six months. We suggested that this deadline be reduced, that it be only three months. That's the point of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22862	Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22863	Thank you. Given that this amendment has not been accepted, it somehow gives the impression that this law is not anti-monopolistic. In an extremely fine way, you have smoothed the obligation to issue a marketing concentration authorisation by the Commission for the protection of competition with this new bill. The objective of the submission of this amendment is to define this obligation by the Commission. The law currently in force clearly defines that the concentration is carried out on the basis of the approval provided by the Commission, at the request of the market participants. The new bill states: “Concentrations of market participants are allowed, unless they significantly restrict, disrupt or prevent competition on the market of the Republic of Serbia or its part, especially if this restriction, disruption or prevention would be the result of creating or strengthening a dominant position. “ There is room left for market participants to assess for themselves whether their concentration limits, disrupts, or prevents concentration on the market. I still feel it is necessary for the Commission to issue an authorisation. That's why I submitted this amendment. The amendment is not accepted, with the reason that the amendment is not accepted, bearing in mind that the concept of the law is based on the principle of freedom of market and market action, including the legal assumption of the concentration allowed as a form of business. It is too free to use this concept of law, so I can rightly say that it can be a good basis for market abuses and irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22864	Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Now sign in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22865	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have submitted an amendment before the SRS Group on Article 21, point 2). Article 21 refers to the Commission's competence to protect competition and says that the Commission is competent to set administrative measures in accordance with this law in point (2) of Article 1(2). I have proposed to amend this point 2) because I do not consider this to be the Commission's jurisdiction. In the light of the proposal for a law, you wrote that "in the past period, in terms of relevant practice, shortcomings in the adequate sanctioning of identified infringements of competition have been observed, primarily as a result of the existence of two conjecture proceedings, proceedings before the Commission, which consider and determines the infringement of competition, and the infringement procedure before the competent authorities of infringements, in order to impose penalties for the infringement of competition established in the first proceedings. “ You are now proposing by this bill that the Commission examines and determines the existence and injury of competition and, in the same procedure, expresss the prescribed administrative measures. The Serbian Radical Party considers that this way too much authority is given to the Commission by placing in the power of the Commission what has been in the jurisdiction of the infringement authorities so far. One of these same people will determine the existence of a breach of competition and do sanctioning instead of a law enforcement body. You have decided to reject this amendment, because you have firmly decided to give the Commission more authority, and that is how you wrote it in an explanation for the refusal of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22866	Thank you, Mrs Dimitrievich. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22867	We are already in the chapter relating to the Competition Protection Commission, and Article 21 concerns the Commission's competence. You heard this first amendment of ours, which Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic explained. It is not known what this means: ‘it determines administrative measures in accordance with this law’. If you have stated – it applies, it would be clear. Administrative measures are laid down by law, not by some commission's assessment. Administrative measures are prescribed, it can only apply these administrative measures to implement administrative measures. This is the Commission's jurisdiction, not to determine them. It's the law that determines. Now, back to what Mr. Momir Markovic covered with the amendment. This is point 11), he says, "takes action to develop awareness of the need to protect competition". Explain to me how you're going to do it, what are you going to do to develop consciousness? Some ideologies really wanted a new man, conscious, time-oriented and space-oriented, Hitler was looking for a new man, Stalin was looking for a new man, the EU is looking for a new man, Americans have made a new man long ago, they have a new man. How will you develop awareness of the protection of competition? Only if you have agreed on how to launder money with some publications, ordered shows, or to ensure that the American Embassy sponsorship shows up on channel 2 where our high school students would practice national geography, part of "protection of competition", and find some asshole actor that he's having sex there, kids, quiz, Biserko's main score. What do you need that for? Did you know you did that once? Do you remember that Ace Vlahovic? When he started the sale of Serbia, he made billboards, so he says - a start for the property. He cheated on everyone. That was the beginning of the end. You blew everything away, you didn't even take 10% of the value of the social property you sold. The same thing was Mladjan Dinkic developing consciousness through commercials – you go in, you go out, you can take a licking car; mom, dad and daughter go on vacation to Greece, no problem. The G17 came up with a national corporation to secure housing loans, so it broke; let's go for the corporate break, but also the budget broke, and the state broke. I don't know. Secondly, the last position, the Commission says - jobs under item 1, point and point - are carried out as entrusted transactions. All of this commission's affairs are entrusted to state affairs. If the state hadn't concluded that it had a decommissioned department called the commission, these jobs could have been done by a competent ministry. It might. This is the jurisdiction of the state and the state concludes that these jobs will work, such as a frequency permit or these channels, etc. It's the jurisdiction of the State, the Ministry of Telecommunications. Some things led him to conclude that this should go to an independent regulatory body. The state passed on these jobs, entrusted someone to do them on her behalf, with the powers the state has. All this committee does is trust the government. Of course, this drive of consciousness, you throw it out, doesn't mean anything unless you give them a valve to publish their scientific papers and launder money. You still have, for example, point 12) – keeping records of the notified agreements, of participants who have a dominant position on the market, as well as of the concentrations, in accordance with this law. Look out, do you have a register? Did you prescribe a register, so you need to keep a record? You're not. It's simply not the place in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22868	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras. The government has accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22869	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on behalf of the DSS Group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 23. Article 23 sets out the selection of the competition authorities of the Commission and the draft law provides that members of the Council should be elected by the Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee in charge of trade affairs. In the amendment, we have proposed a solution found in the current law, which is that members of the Council should be elected by the Assembly on the proposal of authorised proposings, and the proposed representatives are the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia, the Scientific Society of Economists of Serbia, the Bar Association of Lawyers, the Chamber of Commerce and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Authorised proposings set out candidates' proposals on their own, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the minister in charge of trade affairs. The Commission is conceived as an independent and independent body and for this reason we have submitted this amendment proposing that professional associations propose candidates for members of the Council, not that this is the case by the Assembly Committee on Trade and Tourism, because we think that this would significantly undermine the independence and independence of that body. Mr. Minister, you said in your address today that most of the opposition MPs in the Trade Committee in this meeting. That is true, but I am fully convinced that if opposition MPs on the Trade and Tourism Committee make proposals that do not like the ruling coalition, they will certainly not pass here at a vote in the assembly. I don't think that's the right way to choose Council members. It is true, in this committee meeting, there are most oppositions, in some future maybe there will be no opposition. It is not necessary to leave the congregation committee, which is normally to reflect the congregation's majority, to be empowered to propose candidates for members of the Council. We think that it should be professional associations, as we have in the amendment and predicted, because we think that this really ensures the independence and independence of this body, which is necessary to make it work in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22870	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic, and the remaining time for the SRS parliamentary group is 25 minutes and 45 seconds. The word is Mr. Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23. The proposal for a competition law which reads: "Article 23, paragraph 2, following the word "The National Assembly", the point is put in place and the rest of the text is deleted. “ This Article 23 regulates the way the President of the Commission and members of the Council are elected. This law, like many others, cannot pass without establishing some advice or a commission; it has become a rule in the last few years as far as some law is laid down under EU directives or regulations. This new law on the protection of competition comes late, and that is what the promoter himself admitted in an explanation, as well as that the previous law has many shortcomings and shortcomings. During that time, many things happened that the previous law could not prevent and sanction. Competition and monopoly have contributed in the last few years to the closure of a large number of small shops, markets, trades with a ruthless war of prices, which petty traders and entrepreneurs were unable to monitor. This also automatically meant reducing the number of employees and reducing the number of taxpayers' legal entities. This amendment deletes the words in point 2: "on a proposal from the competent committee on trade affairs". The Serbian Radical Party believes that this is not the responsibility of the Trade Affairs Committee, given that it is a selection of representatives of the Commission and members of the Council, a complex and complex procedure. Now I don't understand the government of the Republic of Serbia; according to almost all the laws so far, the councils and commissions are elected by the government, as a rule, where there is money and opportunities to manipulate these funds. We have the freshest example since yesterday: The National Council for Regional Development, members of the Council elects the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is not elected by the Assembly, nor is it proposed by the Assembly Committee, and it is necessary that the advice that bears the word "national" in its full name be elected in the national parliament. This is how it's all set upside down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22872	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22873	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23(1); due to a technical error here, paragraph 3. Article 23 reads: “The President of the Commission and the members of the Council are selected from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of law and economy, with at least ten years of relevant work experience,” I stress - relevant, “who have achieved significant and recognised works or practices in”, I stress, “the relevant area, especially in the field of competition protection and who enjoy the reputation of objective and impartial persons”. I suggested that the first three inaccurate formulations be deleted that could complicate the choice of president and council members, in the end, may be subject to certain abuses. The first wording of "relevant work experience" and the second "relevant area", these are rather stretching concepts. Too many stretchy terms. It can be interpreted in one way or another, and even more this third formulation: candidates "who enjoy the reputation of an objective and impartial person". Whether someone is objective and impartial, it is mostly a matter of subjective experience, personal feeling, personal evaluations and about which two Serbs can hardly agree, let alone representatives of different political options. I'll say a few words about this law and its adoption. I believe that the adoption of this law is a school example where the folk proverb "Last Marko on Kosovo" has made its full sense. This law has been delayed for at least ten years, and it's planned, on purpose. To make things worse, both Marko and you are late for the same moral reasons – Marko because of the vassal relationship with Asian Turks who won the Balkans with weapons; you are late because of the vassal relationship with Serbian and European "Turkishs", Western multinational companies and domestic Serb tycoons who have committed money and crime. When I say I mean the parties to the current ruling coalition, but also all the political parties that participated in the government and governance of Serbia from 5 October 2000 to today. At the time of Milosevic, the regime left control of the Serbian market to its favorite businessmen and favorite criminals. Thanks to the monopoly on export and import jobs and public procurement, these people often literally became millionaires overnight. Along with this process of criminalisation, the process of destroying Serbia's economy has also lasted, destroying businesses, whose ultimate goal was to buy the regime's mafia for as little money as possible. What Milosevic has begun, you have completed. You made it possible for his, and now your favorite criminals, tycoons of companies that cost hundreds of millions of euros to buy tens of millions of euros to companies that cost tens of millions of euros or several hundred thousand euros. You've gone so far as to remind you, the sugars that were estimated at a few dozen million euros were sold for one euro, not to anyone, but to the director of the DS. Practically, you allowed the mafia to become the owner of Serbia, to control the entire market in Serbia, with unlimited monopoly. Thanks to this, various Miskovici, Hamovici, Markovici, Kostici, Matici, Lazarevici, Draculai acquired a wealth measured by hundreds of millions, even billions of euros. Now, with ten years late, probably under EU pressure, and even more likely because you have some things, and above all some of these tycoons are out of control, you are trying to impose some order on the Serbian market with this law. I am giving myself the right to predict that there will be nothing of it, that this law will remain a dead letter on paper, that it will apply to "slight pine" and that it will not apply to those that I have listed – Miskovic, Matice, Hamovica and Kostice. As evidence, and this will end, I have been using this annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Commission since 2008. When you read this report, the first conclusion that is imposed on you is that here, I say, only those "slight fish" are recorded mostly, small enterprises that have no major significance in the Serbian market, and "the sharks" to which this law should be dealt, there is no sign of a voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22874	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ). Mr Avramović Milan has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22875	Within the time available to the Serbian Radical Party, I would like to justify the amendment of counterpart Dobrislav Prelic, which concerns Article 23. For the sake of the citizens, I have to read it. It refers to the selection of the President of the Commission, or members of the Council, which shall be carried out with two separate lists of candidates containing at least the same and a maximum of twice the number of candidates to be elected. My colleague Prelic asked that the words "major and twice as large" be deleted, because the double number in this case – if we look at Article 22, which says that the Council is president of the Commission and four members, that is five people – ten candidates. Thus, in some ways, competition is prohibited, because if we take into account the fact that they are selected from the ranks of prominent experts, and that it is the number of ten, there is certainly a greater number of experts and respected people in the field of law and economy who would apply for the Commission or for membership in this council. If we also consider that the practice of the Democratic Party is killing competition at the very beginning, in order to free up space for further action, it is in favour of having this number twice as large. I have to read an explanation relating to the non-acceptance of this amendment, which says: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the solution given in the bill provides for the democraticity of the election for the Commission's functions while at the same time ensuring the functionality and efficiency of the procedure. “ I will remind you, Mr. Minister, how your party’s democracy works. In the previous period, we had a proposal from the Committee on Culture, which should be proposed to the Assembly of two members for the RRA; if you have in mind the fact that two members propose the Assembly as a whole to that agency, and that the Committee on Culture has only given two members to the Assembly, you can see that this possibility for competition is lost at the very beginning. If you have failed to protect competition in the work of the Assembly, as the largest legislative body, how will you protect competition in any other kind of protection? If you haven't managed to solve this problem with your MPs, I don't think you'll be able to solve this problem any other way. I would remind you of the Democratic Party's practice, especially because of this term that you have given in an explanation for not accepting the amendment – "democracy". How has the President of the City Committee of the Democratic Party in Belgrade, Dragan Gilas, been elected? One candidate was involved, elections were held, and then Mr. Dragan Gilas came out in the evening and said, "I have won, I am the chairman of the City Committee of the Democratic Party." You have as many examples as you want, but these examples end mainly in the inconceivables of annulment and of yourself. I will remind you that the way the elections were held in the Belgrade City Assembly, when the mayor's office was elected because of the death of the previous mayor, was such that the Ministry of Local Self-Government recorded the biggest, rude violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the city's assembly. At that time, you printed a ballot with one candidate in the city parliament; it was Zoran Alimpic. You have thus challenged the right of other committee groups, i.e. the party in the city parliament to propose anyone for that function, and thus you initially killed the competition. I've tried to show through several examples how the Democratic Party works, how you guys are supposed to give someone the right to compete, for any kind of race. If this competition is disputed in this House, in this House, in the capital, if laws, norms, Rules of Procedure, if your ministry annulled a session at which the mayor's office election was held, if you give two candidates, two possible RRAs, how do you think you choose these ten, in accordance with this law? Who are those ten? Who's gonna pick those ten? Who's gonna make the selection? What if there are more candidates? What about the others? On what principle will these ten be drawn from the committee responsible for proposing to the Assembly? Will it be in a box, closed envelopes, ten of which he draws out? Will the first ten who apply to be the ten that the Committee will propose to the congregation? These indefinities, the inaccuracies of this law raise a reasonable doubt that you too will be in charge of selecting these members of the Council and the president of this committee. For all this, it is justified to propose a colleague, Dobrislav Prelic, and I think that this amendment should have been accepted if you are really fighting for the protection of competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22876	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's a great political irony that this bill comes from this government. I don't know if anyone in the Serbian government, who proposed this law on competition protection, has seriously analysed the structure of investments in the Republic of Serbia over the past few years. All these investments mostly come down to the opening of the salon, to the opening of some shopping malls of people who came to their capital mainly in a very suspicious way. Now, the government, which practically ruined Serbia's economy and the Serbian market, is proposing some law on competition protection. I don't know if you've seen, Mr. Minister, around Belgrade these days, in Novi Sad, in all major cities in Serbia, big billboards that advertise Croatian coast. It says: “Croatian, so close and so beautiful. ” I wonder if you asked around your Croatian colleagues in Zagreb if, for example, in Zagreb you can see billboards where natural beauty of Serbia is advertised, say Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Tara, etc.? Whoever enters Belgrade meets a big billboard that says "Pevec". Show me some billboard in Zagreb that writes, say, "Such" or the name of another Serbian producer. Do you even care about an important principle that is respected in international relations, which is the principle of reciprocity? Are you taking care of the fact that you have almost completely let the Serbian market go to the mercy and mercy, let's go to the Serbian tycoons, we can still get over it, but to Croatian or Slovenian tycoons? It is a public secret, Mr. Minister, that the owners of certain large Croatian companies (public or secret owners), for example, are individual Croatian generals who actively participated in Operation Storm, that they own capital in these companies. You provide them with a Serbian market. I don't know why you're doing this, do you and your government have any use for it or are you really blind with healthy eyes and don't see what the ordinary world sees? Where did you get the right to advertise Croatian coast at a time when Croatia absolutely did nothing to speed up the return of Serbs? What's so extraordinary out there that you can see? The sea as well as any other sea. Why don't you advertise Greece, Bulgaria, any other country, but you've just found a Croatian state? The other day, some, I guess, savedstan, citizen on that billboard for Croatia “So Beautiful and So Close, ” wrote:“ So Genocidal. ” Take care of that, too. You will not be able to protect any Serbian market in this way, firstly, because our authentic Serbian market and our authentic Serbian economy are almost gone. This law, if voted, neither domestic nor foreign tycoons would absolutely respect it. Take care once about what investments you propose and what investments you bring to the Republic of Serbia. In the past few years, you have exclusively insisted on non-productive investments, the opening of trade chains, domestic and foreign chains, and the opening of a car salon. I ask you, what's the benefit of these investments, what's the benefit of domestics, how many people are employed, and what's the new stuff that's being sold here? Producers 90% of the goods are Croatians and Slovenians. I don't know what benefit Serbia has from it, except that they came up with it, so those in "Pevec" evacuated their commercials, and so did those who advertise the Croatian coast. But when everything is collected and taken away, the only benefit of it will be Croatia; Serbia and its citizens will be absolutely damaged.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22878	Thank you. Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22879	The central issue of all of our amendments concerning the election of members of this committee is based on the fact that neither the Committee on Trade of the National Assembly can have the status of promoter when it comes to choice... The Commission has been designed as a state body. All state authorities, i.e. should be clearly defined and appointed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to this commission, that's not the case. Given that the legal person is a National Assembly, and the Committee is an auxiliary body, which has no legal subjectivity, given the poor experience of such solutions with the Finance Committee when it comes to members of the Monetary Council and governor of the NBS, it takes a different procedure to reach these members. Of course, they're chosen by the National Assembly, it's a much better solution than the government thing, but there's a different procedure to be prescribed. Of course, you have adopted this amendment on the 1st position and you have imposed that you must be aware of European law as well. Explain to me, please, what is the right one? Why should we apply EU law when we are not an EU member, not even candidates? We in their legal order can only read what suits us and satisfy our interests, and nothing else. Take that theme off your eyes once. The imperialism has done its part, increased and enabled foreign trade, unified. We needed neither the European Union nor the United Nations. By the nature of things, people, to achieve co-operation, want to apply the same rules. Why should we apply EU rules, not rules used by Chinese, Russians, Brazilians, etc.? You still have your kind of drive – it's European. You know, beautiful, beautiful, most beautiful, European-looking. It's not gonna happen, people. Forget it. Do you see that someone no longer believes you – European? What does European law mean? It is applied by EU members. How? Selective. Each country applies from European law what is appropriate to it, the other does not apply. And they have their own special court. It has nothing to do with the European Court of Human Rights which is in Strasbourg. We are members of the Council of Europe and are obliged to respect the human rights and rules that exist under the Convention, but this, to impose European law? You have a Master of European Sciences, MPs. Tell me, what kind of magistrate is that? This Jerkov, he presents himself as a master of European science. Tell me, what are European sciences? Any stupidity you can put out through the media and defend here in the Assembly. That he knows European law? And why wouldn't he know the rules of the World Trade Organisation? I guess he has to learn economic law, bonds, etc. to get into this area. So we think this is the wrong way. Why? The way these members are elected must be prescribed very precisely, for the simple reason that members of that commission should primarily be experts, people who understand this area. Believe that except for two or three professors at the Faculty of Economics and Law, other people in this country have no idea what antelope is, they have no idea. So I'm telling you to be careful, don't bid on the way someone chooses. Excuse me, please, is it possible that the Trade Committee can be competent to propose an expert when in the Trade Committee, as well as in all other committees of the National Assembly, the MPs who are under the Constitution of the layman? They are not MPs because they are experts in an area, but because they were on the list and they were chosen. You're giving us back self-management, like when the cleaners decided whether or not the doctor would go to a specialist. There's no need. Find another way to come to the proposal, and let the National Assembly choose those members. That is the basic point of all our amendments, to Article 23 and to the following members relating to the selection of members of this committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22880	Thank you. The amendment proposed to add a new member of 23a was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22881	Dear Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed the addition of a new member of 23a, which defines the way in which members of the Commission will be elected as an independent regulatory body. It is essentially linked to the previous amendment to Article 23, which is proposed that the right to propose have primarily professional associations, because we consider this to be one of the most important chapters in this law, which should ensure the independence of the members of the Commission. In addition to the basic requirement of expertise, a very important segment in this story should be independence and some basic moral and any other integrity of the members of the Commission. In the law you proposed that the right of the proposal has a committee on the trade of the National Assembly. In translation, this right should be exercised by individual members of the Committee, or by members of political parties, regardless of whether the Committee currently has opposition or position in the meeting. For months back in the press and the statements of officials of this state have been repeatedly spoken, and it has been said that political parties, which have an impact on developments in the state, are connected with various tycoons and monopolies and financed by them, cannot implement certain laws and cannot honestly enter into the change of legislation that regulates a particular area, and you are now proposing that members of an independent commission, which you pointed out in a recent explanation, that the Commission should be an independent body, to manage professional and moral principles, be elected by MPs, or members of political parties. You do not have a greater possibility of abuse, regardless of whether in the current meeting of the board of directors, the majority of MPs are opposition or position. It does not provide for independence of the proposal. You have a direct connection between members of political parties with the possibility of proposing members of an independent commission and that link that can later be misused. We have suggested that the right to propose has, above all, independent professional associations, because there is less possibility of abuse and association with certain monopolies and tycoons, so you call them glegonically. Of course, there are also opportunities to connect them and to make these proposals in a way related to certain market monopolies, but it is certainly much less than when it comes to board members. The Commission should ensure market regulation, i.e. the possibility of competition in the right sense of the word. When you say it, you are thinking first of all of a higher offer on the market and lower prices of certain products. One of the campaign's pre-election promises, aside from the famous 1,000 euros and entry into the EU, faster integration, greater investment, was that the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the inflow of foreign capital would lead to the opening of the market, greater competition and a reduction in the prices of certain products and services, which would be a improvement for citizens. Since the end of last year, the government has decided to unilaterally apply the SAA by reducing or completely abolishing customs duties on certain import products. We at the Democratic Party of Serbia then said that this would cause inconspicuous damage to the budget, to the state and to the domestic economy because the reduction or elimination of customs duties for certain import products would cause a huge problem, i.e. the inflow in the budget, i.e. an increase in the deficit, on the one hand. On the other hand, uncontrollable imports of goods on this basis will create huge problems for the domestic economy, i.e. producers of domestic products, which cannot cope overnight with the huge competition coming from the West. In practice, our remarks on the unilateral application of the SAA were that, by unilaterally applying this agreement, we will actually help the foreign economy to place its products on the domestic market. Your argument was that through unilateral application and reduction of customs duties, citizens will be given exactly by allowing higher competition in the market for lower prices of products and services. Is that what happened? For the first six months, the Republic of Serbia's budget is 44,000,000,000 dinars, according to the prime minister the other day. If this were to be applied analoguely for the whole year, we will reach a figure of 130,000,000 dinars for 2009, far above the projected 3% of the budget deficit agreed with the International Monetary Fund. How are you going to react to this? Unfortunately, our forecasts have come true that this will drastically reduce inflows in the budget. Did product prices drop? No, they're not. From December to today, the value of the consumer basket has increased by 5,617 dinars. We have double damages: neither prices are reduced, i.e. they are increased in the consumer basket, nor inflows in the budget are enough to cover all the costs that this government makes. That's why it's no wonder you have strikes all over Serbia, based on various grounds. Currently in Serbia, media and statistics say, there are over 20 serious strikes in various companies. In New Market, we had a case of cutting off certain parts of the body, or fingers. In several cities, Kragujevac, the King, there were hunger strikes, so they were interrupted in one way or another. In Nis, the "Nitex" strike lasts since 6 November last year, with a break of 15 days because the authorities have promised to solve the problem. That didn't happen, and that strike lasts day and day. In Croatia's Gradjevinar, which employs more than 1,000 people, who have done huge jobs in the country and abroad, the strike has been on since 6 May and the hunger strike is 22 weeks. Minister Ljajic, since a man may not be able to arrive, but there are no answers to certain questions, no longer goes to solve these strikers' problems in certain companies, so he announced and recommended yesterday, or the government has concluded that working groups will be formed by representatives of local authorities, who will be the mediator between strikers and central authorities. What is it that the government and the competent ministry are afraid of? To face strikers and answer certain questions. Unfortunate issues will be raised, including how privatisations have been carried out and why the state does not adhere to its conclusions and signed agreements. You remember that last year an agreement was signed on the application of an extended collective contract. Well, what happened to that? Another scam. The question will be asked why the sale of Belgrade's fair gives Belgrade 50% of the privatisation revenue, and no other company outside Belgrade, or in any other part of Serbia, is worth 50% of the privatisation revenue. What are these criteria, what are these criteria? What are people living outside Belgrade, or out of Vojvodina, because there is a privilege in privatisation, should they have the same conditions for life and development as those living in the mentioned environments? These are issues that cannot go undetected and these are things that are even more irritable and fostering widespread social dissatisfaction in Serbia. Because of this, our amendment was that this committee, which can in a certain way affect the market, is fully independent, and this independence can only provide for an independent proposal, where there will be no direct link between the political parties and the relevant assembly committee and the possibility of direct proposal by these MPs, or political parties, individual members and the independent commission. If we leave that role to the professional associations, we will probably avoid the possibility of direct connection with tycoons and the possibility of abnormal market prices going, first of all, in the pocket of an ordinary man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22882	Thank you. The National MP Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22883	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Mr Minister, I have submitted an amendment in front of the NS Parliamentary Group on Article 24(1), where we are asking that the words "with the possibility of reelection" be deleted, primarily because the mandate of this commission, i.e. the President of the Commission and the Council, is five years. This is longer than one congregational convocation in the most ideal conditions, and we know that for a long time there have been no ideal conditions for us, so that a congregation convocation welcomes the end of its term of office in full duration. We were encouraged to submit this amendment because the interest of those who wanted to keep the dominant market will certainly be large and will not choose the means to make it or to keep it, and because within the Council or the Commission, no particular lobby would be created. It's a painful point of all the councils and commissions, especially those that have great discretionary rights. We have come to the conclusion that only one mandate is sufficient for one commission to be confirmed. The government's response, the reason for the refusal, was to manage the work of the previous term during the next re-election, which is not a good criterion. It takes five years for you to do something with very serious consequences, so it gives or doesn't give you the opportunity to do the same in the next five years. What is important to say, which is why we have all said a lot about the Council or the Commission here, I think we should draw attention at the end of this extraordinary session, probably at the last item of the agenda, how much we have burdened citizens of Serbia with new commissions, councils and new budgetary jobs only at this extraordinary meeting. By the way, Article 29 states: “The amount of earnings, i.e. the fee for the work of the President of the Commission, or members of the Council, is determined at the height of the President’s salary, i.e. the Supreme Court of Cassation. “ These incomes are far greater than the receipts of MPs. Such jobs, with such high incomes, will not be visible and will not be publicised, and will be extremely burdened by the public spending of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we know that the economy is growing and is unable to monitor the needs of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which there are many... It really should, at least at the end of this extraordinary session, add up how many of us have opened new jobs in this extraordinary session. When it comes to the next amendment we have submitted, we believe that these tips and commissions should not be, at least not visible, party. This is especially the case, because the parties want, this is their right, to repay some of their members, but this must not be a priority for the adoption of these laws that are passed under a pro-European company. We cannot say that Europe is satisfied with our constant requirements for new credit lines, which we are just filling holes in a budget that the economy can no longer monitor. What I would like to say is that it would be good for at least someone in the government to remember those old, wise practices of former Serb tribunals and politicians -- that laws are being passed for themselves in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22884	Thank you. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here, you have the word, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22885	I will use the time foreseen for the amendment, two minutes, and the rest of the time will be the time of the parliamentary group. Before I move on to the interpretation of the amendment to Article 24, I would take the opportunity to give a general assessment, I believe I have the right to do so in relation to the way in which this law is considered. You really deserve praise, Mr. Milosavljevic, for having been actively involved in the debate, for having heard, received and adopted many things through the amendments. The 15 amendments adopted, which we received in the government's view in a timely manner, mean that you adopted not only a legal-technical order of text, but also a few amendments that really complement this law. I think that such an amendment by the Progress Group is Serbia, the SNS, which has been deliberately forgotten or dropped by the Commission's secretary, who is to be managed by the work of the professional service, in a joint agreement, in the exchange of arguments in law. I'd like it to be a practice. As there is a debate in life where no winners should be defeated, so should this debate on amendments, where the only winners should be citizens, who get better quality solutions. The government, whenever it proposes these solutions, really has a broad view, but never enough to remain blind and deaf to us MPs who, by accepting these amendments, really get the meaning of our engagement through this amendment debate. Why has no amendment to Article 24 been adopted? Regardless of the good intentions that are obvious to you in Article 24 which speaks of the duration of the mandate of members of the Council, the means of resolution, where we have complemented that if the report is not adopted and this may be the reason for the resolution, but not of an individual member of the Council, but of the General Council, the notification of the Assembly, or the committee responsible by the council itself, because this is not in itself and the launch of an initiative to resolve members of the Council, I think it is too much of an amendment intervention for one member. It's not my fault, as an MP. This article really regulates many views, many situations, and you have looked only at the last part of my amendment intervention, where you have put the initiative to resolve members of the Council to launch at least 20 MPs of the Assembly, corresponding to me in an explanation of the rejection of amendments that this could mean the possibility of introducing a political impact on the work of the Commission. I don't want to argue with that argument because the very way of proposing members of the Council is simply such that it can't be deprived of political influence. Not only this choice, no selection of council members, regulatory bodies, commissions, professional bodies has been deprived of political influence, because parliamentary groups must appear as holders of the proposal of certain members, starting with the most important institution we choose here in the Assembly, and most importantly I consider the State Auditing Institution. So let's just say it's not an explanation. As you, on the one hand, have accepted that there can be no monopoly of the President of the Commission, who has not had a deputy because he did not appoint him, who did not have a director, and now we have a secretary, so we did not have the right demonopolization of the decision, and I also think there are many real reasons and the right arguments why we should adopt an amendment in which we say that the Assembly can resolve the members of the Council when it does not adopt its report. What, then, is the purpose of the report if there is no effect on the non-compliance of the report? Is that when, for example, the members of the Commission, by the Public Procurement Act, make a decision, good or bad, motivated by who knows what reasons, or the right, then plant an authorized person to sign and then he has to answer by being an authorised person. Is the congregation such an organ that, when a report is not adopted, it has no consequences? As we had that report on the work, I believe you know, in 2006, this same commission was not adopted on the Trade Committee and no one was affected. So that report wasn't adopted not because the Trade Committee didn't like the font of the letter that was written, but probably for some reasons that are important, which qualify the Commission to continue to do the job or not. So, I think you had to appreciate that the Prosperity Group has submitted only four amendments to Serbia, sticking only to this part of the Commission, its appointment and the work it is directly responsible for. So that doesn't mean that the law is perfect, and it doesn't mean that we know more than you do, we've submitted as many amendments as the one asking for credit, so it's asking for just as much money as it needs to complete a business project, not twice as much to approve half of it, because we don't want it to be a practice. Furthermore, we are asking in the amendment that, at the moment of a legal reason why a member of the Council cannot act as President of the Commission, as one of the members of the Council, to inform the Committee, or the Assembly, of that reason. As proof that this isn't happening in itself, I'm going to give you a situation that lasts. Since April of this year... You know, maybe you don't know, I don't really measure the argument of whether you're familiar with it, but I'm presenting the exact facts that the Assembly doesn't know, so I'm telling them as a newspaper. Since April, two members of the Council have expired, others have not been appointed; the assembly has not found that, and now the decisions are being taken by three members. Some lawyers are already asking the question of the validity of decisions of the full composition of the Commission, i.e. the Council, which decides on this, given that there are only three. In addition, one of the two members to whom the term of office expired the next day established a working relationship in the commission itself, in the professional service. Among other things, these members of the Council were obliged to make a statement guaranteeing, under full material and criminal responsibility, that they were not party officials. I won't mention who it is, but that person was the secretary of a political party. So, if there is no obligation to inform us about it, and the President is responsible, how will we know, find out, sanction, and thus maintain the level of the Commission to decide on such important matters? The 2009 financial plan was not agreed at all, nor was the admission of new people to the Commission and the establishment of a working relationship approved, and the Council has already received four. The non-information and lack of concrete and precise procedures, which the law must define, in which case the committee responsible, or the Assembly, shall produce practical consequences that can really affect the quality of the work of this assembly. How could we possibly have knowledge in the event of the termination of the mandate or the inability to carry out this duty if someone does not inform us? This amendment has just been provided for the President of the Commission in the event of the end of the term of office. 2) and 3) to notify the committee responsible as soon as the reasons for the discharge or inability to perform its duties occur. So if the reason for the amendment is not already a bad practice because it is not regulated, I really don't know what might be a bigger reason for this amendment to be adopted. What I said, if there is no responsibility when the Commission's report is not adopted on the committee, or the Assembly as an authority, an extremely important question is raised: what is the way in which responsibility is to fail? Is it possible to ask anyone for responsibility for failure in the work, if we don't do it in this place and in these cases, by discussing the most important things regarding demonopolisation, which are about protecting competition, we said, the fourth pillar where the organized state rests and the market economy. Is it, I'm not going to say party book, but is the protection of any individual, with some important party book, more important protection for failure to work and responsibility than the report itself, in front of 250 MPs or the assembly board? Are there individuals, there is protection of individuals for some people in the Commission, it's not you, Mr. Minister, but some other individuals, who can protect some people for failure to work or commit sins? I don't think so. You have not given me the right, by not adopting this amendment, to have an individual or a party's book protect someone for failure, but that responsibility should have a consensus, in terms of resolution from this body. Is it possible to consider the successful work of a commission whose large number of decisions are made by some decision-making bodies, i.e. there are solutions to which the lawsuits have been brought and the Supreme Court returns them to the retrial? Perhaps the Commission should have provided us with a report on the number of solutions the Commission has made to which the action has been brought and which have been returned by the Supreme Court to the retrial. I'll tell you that in such a procedure are solutions for "Delta", "Salford", cable TV SBBI similar. Do you know the reasons for the return? Formal shortcomings, not taking into account some evidence in the decision-making process, arbitrary interpretation of its own provisions and the like. Does this reason (ordinary interpretation, formal failures) mean that someone does not know how to do his job, and whether not taking into account some of the evidence should be punished and whether it is a place to punish, is it a way for those failures to establish a report on work, and the place is just a congregation committee, that is, this home? I guess we don't get along here either. I am truly expressing my sincere regret that you have not adopted an amendment to Article 24 which casts a shadow on both this law and your wish to regulate the functioning of this committee in an impartial and responsible manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22886	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22887	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have noticed, not only in this law, but in many laws that the Government sends to Parliament, that you are prone to perseverance – either you prescribe the provisions of the Constitution, or in the law itself, enter something that, in our opinion, might be the subject of some other acts, particularly within the framework of this council, which is spoken of by Article 25. In this regard, Article 25(1) states that the Council decides by majority of the votes of the total number of members, and then further discusses to detail how the Council works, which we consider to be excessive for one law and that this should be subject to the statutes, possibly the Rules of Procedure or some other acts of the Commission. We don't mind it being solved the same way, but it's simply not the place for such provisions in one law. I think your argument that this is more celery is not standing, but would just be my explanation for accepting the amendment whether it's a more comprehensive proposal that the amendment offers. It's up to you to decide. The essence doesn't change. It's not so important that I'm a member of the law, that it should now represent here the subject of a debate between you and me as a promoter, but simply, I think it's very easy to accept and that you're not losing anything. As far as the organ itself is concerned, it has always been that the body itself is setting up its own work; simply, here it could be the same, it could even be prescribed provisions, but none of us, nor the participants, nor those to whom the law applies, have any of what is in the law. That was our reason for submitting amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22888	The title above article 26 and article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22889	In the beginning, I would return to Article 24 paragraph 2. 3. That's where you forgot that one of the reasons for stopping your term of office could be the loss of your ability. Where did you go immediately to business? It's like a man who starts working on that commission has to become indecipherable. He can lose his ability to work. Let me just draw your attention to one fact. Look out, in America Congress and the Senate are talking to future state officials, so that's where their biography, past, expertise, etc. is combed. But it is all about the presidential system; the assembly and parliamentary systems are not at all unique. I don't know why you put this Trade Committee in. I don't know why you put him in. We now have situations that some of the laws are prescribed that a state body submits a report to the National Assembly. Do you know when these reports come to the National Assembly? Rare or never. As far as they go, it's to some board of directors. We're politicians here, and these people can only be cleared if they don't work in accordance with the law. It's theoretically possible to write a fantastic report and not pass. Why? These count on a future coalition with them, and they say – if the report fails, we will remove the president so that "Delta" could expand even better. Take the policy out of what's called waist. Politics ends with the government, ministers, the National Assembly. Underneath there must be no politics. End of story. Article 26. You're talking about professional service here, but someone made a mistake. The rights and obligations of professional staff shall be subject to general labour regulations. Well, it's not the general ones, it's the ones that apply to government employees. The generals apply to all the subsidiary, and you wrote that in the last attitude well, where the office business is, etc., you completed that sentence – the regulations regarding the state administration. It's quite right. He who works in that commission, who is not a member of the Council, is in the position of a civil servant or a substitute, depending on the jobs he does. I don't know how you could have done a very simple thing wrong. The question is whether you will call this service a professional service, from the point of view of the state administration regulations. The commission is a state body, and the internal structure needs to be prescribed, someone needs to regulate these relations. You don't even give a frame to solve it like this. With this amendment, we just wanted to give you space to say something; of course this text "is deleted" does not fit what I'm saying, I just want to draw your attention that something is wrong with that member. That's all we had on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22890	Mr. Martinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22891	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and this government continues with excessive and truly irrational administration. It's just amazing that so far you haven't drawn a conclusion from the establishment of various commissions, agencies, administrations, services, as you call them. It was these institutions that lay down crime and corruption. You have been insisting since 2001 on a virtually parallel state apparatus. On the one hand, we have ministries, and on the other hand some para-state organisations and institutions which, first of all, do not know the Constitution; secondly, practice has shown that these institutions are the scene of crime, corruption, various illegal activities, machination, malversion, etc. Now a man asks one logical question – what if we have to invent an additional, parallel institution for every social phenomenon besides that ministry? These institutions, Mr. Minister, are far from the eyes of the citizens. We have a problem, like the National Assembly, that the ministers may be pardoned to come to the National Assembly, and then they send sometimes assistants, sometimes counselors. Imagine when this National Assembly saw some agency director! Tell me, please. I doubt you as Minister of Government know that now a man asks you how many agencies there are in the Republic of Serbia. It's hard for the Minister of State and the local self-government to know whose job it is. You who are not a resolute minister, you just don't know. When did this National Assembly see any agency directors? When did she see the director of some administration? When did she see the director of some kind of service? They'll never, never see him. The work of these institutions is completely out of public control. We only know about these institutions as much as you ministers inform us about it or when an affair leaks into the media, but then it's already too late, then people's money has already been thrown into the wind. So, if this government has a massive state apparatus and you've already decided that you're not reducing this massive state bureaucratic apparatus, then at least don't increase it, let those 20 and the change ministers, as many as there are, do a little work of their own. Why do you always transfer responsibility and work to some commissions? That's what those whose practice you, at least verbally or verbally, have been doing, have done. This was done at Broz's time – whenever you have a problem and some social change, you educate some commission of the commission's arrest warrant is nothing. But that's why big money was spent, someone fostered, arrested, etc. That's how you work from law to law. Don't do that. Either reduce the number of ministries or don't increase the country's massive administration anyway. When you don't reduce it, don't increase it further. Whenever there's a new bill, here's the agency, here's the commission, here's some regulatory body. What is the effect of the agencies so far? The European Commission, Mr Minister, if you read their reports on the degree of reform in Serbia, gave a negative opinion on these very agencies. They didn't do anything, some of them didn't even live, but that's why they hired a number of personnel, they get big salaries, they get no work results. What do we need in the state of Serbia ministers if these social problems are dealt with by someone who is neither a minister nor a state official, nor does the public have any control over his work, but is therefore a beneficiary of the budget? Come back a little, gentlemen from the government, to some classic political concepts. Don't think that these problems Serbia faces today were not even a hundred years ago. How did the state then fight crime and corruption without commissions and without agencies? There were ministries, there were courts, there were prosecutors, there were police. These are state authorities that need to do their job, not that you, in addition to the legal and constitutional state apparatus, educate some completely new ones. We're about to have a police agency, a court agency, an agency for the agencies. Who knows what won't come to your mind. Let the state authorities who are constitutionally educated do their job, but let them do it safely, honestly, according to the Constitution and the law, and the problem will be solved. This way, you further increase the state administration in Serbia and provide a real chance for crime and corruption and in this area of competition protection to be more than ever before.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22892	Mr. Martinovic, time has just expired that you had available as a parliamentary group. Thank you. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 26th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22893	On behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 27 of Article 3 where we are asking for the word "organ" to be deleted. For the sake of the public of Serbia, I must say that this position of Article 27 reads: "The President of the Commission and the members of the Council cannot be members of the political parties' bodies, nor can they represent in public the programme or the political parties' views." If the word "organ" were deleted, the member would read as follows: "The President of the Commission and the members of the Council cannot be members of political parties, nor can they represent in public the programme or the political parties' views. “ That one word would significantly alter the essence, first of all, of the Commission and its work, made it truly independent, first of all, of political parties and of all the political parties’ influences. Because we must not forget the tycoonisation of Serbia, how far it has been done through the individual influence of the tycoon on political parties and what has led to this, among other things, that famous winged: "Only Kosovo is Serbia, everything else is Delta". But not to mention that the number of those, other than Delta, in Serbia has increased quite well. It is unclear why this amendment is not accepted and why it so unscrupulously wants to identify everything politically. The best experts, the self-aware people, are aware of their high skills and intellectual powers, will now seek not to be in any political party, so that they can make their own capacity available independently. Maybe they'll, and they'll probably, have a crush on this one or that one. After all, they are citizens and have an obligation and a duty to opt for a political option in some elections if they recognize what they want as citizens in it. But it's not good that all the commissions and all the bodies, and I've already talked about the receipts of this commission and what it can represent and means, are being marked. It is not good for the political party to achieve everything unscrupulous. Half a century ago, on the political scene of communist countries, we had one ideological struggle, where in the name of the road a good idea was allowed all: and to mount processes, and to lock people up and kill them without any responsibility. That idea died forever. All such ideas, where in the name of the idea it's allowed to do exactly everything and set everything up, necessarily end up at the heart of history. So, if we're declaring this all the way to Europe, which has now become a fashion trend and a fashion flossula... Here, this morning it was announced in the news that this trip to Europe, or a white Schengen visa, in the name of which we do everything, which should have been something before the annual vacations, said, will be by the end of the year... Of course, after that comes the conditional “if. ” Behind this conditional bond "if", which binds many conditions, and I am telling you that most of these conditions will never be reached, as things are, because for a long time we haven't been able to reach them at all, if this conditional bond "if" doesn't bind everything we can and we can't do most of it, we will not reach Europe in due time. The other day I mentioned Vimer's report, which is constantly being covered up, but we will have to ask ourselves if we will actually and when we enter Europe, whether it is Europe's interest to be members of the EU, whether this is all one colorful lie and propaganda, or if America will say at one point that the legal system of Europe is not even responding and that in Europe it is a much more applicable US legal system. Not to mention that America does not see Serbia at all in the EU, because Serbia needs for something completely different, among other things, to correct its, or Eisenhower's 1945 mistake. Why should it not insist that members with such powers, that this commission that we have discussed a lot and that will make many good or bad in the Serbian market should first of all not have a longer mandate than some economic operators on the Serbian market, whose economic life will be shorter than their mandate, and that it will not be marked by any party? We must no longer settle party interests with high wages through public spending, repay our party like-minded in this way. It's just that credits can't cover it anymore, and this is how we destimulate the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22894	Thank you. We'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. Just to let you know that we'll be working after 1800 hours, in accordance with Article 85. We will move to Article 28, that is, the amendment of Dragan Zivkov, after the break. [[After break – 15/05]] Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Arsen Đuric, Milos Radulović and Milan Lapčević together submitted the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Radulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22896	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 31 concerning the financing of the Commission. Before I say anything about this amendment, Mr. Minister, because in response to my question, you have given one misinformation, you have misinformed the public, so to speak - I have not been involved in any business, I have no firm, I am solely in business here in the Assembly, as a National MP, and since 2000. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, the Democratic Party of Serbia has also made observations here in the way the Commission is formed, because we believe that those people identified by the professional public should be included in the Commission's composition, that there should be some professional organisations and that, in practice, agreement should be made with both the resolution committee and that, with such agreement, which would be achieved between the profession and the national representatives here in the Assembly, representatives come, namely the proposed candidates, both for the members of the Council and for the President of the Commission. I will quote an entire Article 31 which states: “The Commission’s working resources are provided from the revenues made by the Commission through the conduct of the operations, and in particular from: 1) the fees paid under this law; 2) the donation, other than the donations of the participants on the market to which this law applies; 3) the revenue from the sale of Commission publications; 4) other sources in accordance with the law. The amount of the compensation referred to in point (1) of Article 1(1) shall be determined by the tariff of the compensation brought by the Commission with the consent of the Government. The tariff rate referred to in Article 2 shall be published in the Official Messenger. “ In Article 32, you have handled the way in which the financial plan and the details related to the financial plan relating to the work of the Commission are adopted. The amendment submitted by the DSS Parliamentary Group requires that paragraph 1 point 3 be deleted in Article 31. This relates to revenue from the sale of Commission publications. In view of the government's reasons why you reject this amendment, it states that it is not accepted for reasons which are unnecessary to limit possible revenues in the Commission's work, which are not relevant to its operational independence. This is where we actually come to the essence of why we have submitted this amendment. In the debate, in principle, I presented here the information that the owner of a trade chain in a province city, within Serbia, was given a location for use because he allowed the publication to be printed, i.e. a book to the director of an institution that used that land. That is the problem, because what is the measure here, and how limited is that in terms of possible Commission revenues? Hypothetically, you have to admit, Mr. Minister, the Commission can also deal with publishing activities, to print publications that someone will pay them, for the sake of interest they will have on this basis. That's quite possible. It is precisely because we know that some exception with us can become the rule of the DSS Parliamentary Group that this possibility of achieving income should be deleted, especially since this commission is the body that essentially has the greatest responsibility and the greatest right to assess what a monopoly position is. We are already witnessing as many individuals who are monopolies can affect life and events affecting all citizens of Serbia. We have examples, that's what the practice has shown, and so have our claims, that in the formation of the government, it was these monopolies, or those groups of interest. We are talking, first of all, about the import lobby, which directly affected the formation of this government, along with the embassies of some Western countries. This is also seen through the unilateral application of the SAA, because, I repeat, the greatest benefit from the simple application of the SAA, i.e. the transitional trade agreement, is given by those monopolies. Secondly, the monopolies for their own interest also create some social events that are important for all citizens. They repeat once again that we must take care of the owners of small and medium-sized enterprises and the owners of independent trades, which in this way put in an unequal position in relation to the monopolies, i.e. the large ones. One who owns the store cannot print a publication, it cannot bear the cost of printing a publication of one of the members of the Commission. It can only be done by those who have a monopoly, who have and gain extra-profits from such a position, and there we have one opposite, that this commission should prevent the monopoly. The fact is that we have to make sure that everyone has an equal position in the competition and that it is a superior task of this commission. Because of this, we do not understand why the legislator, or the Government and the RES, did not find it appropriate to see the importance of this amendment, because there is no limited fact at all, but there can be a great deal of fact if one of the members is asked to print its publication in large quantities and thus to obtain a larger amount of money. Speaking of money, bigger amounts of money are pulling in at the same time to reduce some criteria and responsibility. So the bigger the amount of money in the game, the more likely it is that those who decide on it have a smaller threshold. I think we should consider this amendment as long as this debate takes place. I think it's entirely meaningful in the spirit of all this that we're talking about protecting competition and limiting the influence of large ones. I repeat, the pillars of every healthy society and healthy economy are precisely small and medium-sized enterprises and owners of independent trade; they are the most vital and, together with their loved ones, with their family, can best perform this country, with a healthy programme, from the crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22897	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22898	Thank you, President. We are pleased that you have accepted one of those two amendments that are essential; we have had two or three other essentials, the one about determining an important part of the market you are not, but let's talk about this amendment that has already entered the members who determine the procedure before the Commission. In several places, and in the same way as the elections, the President of the Commission is set aside from the other members of the Commission. Even the President of the Commission in this law is defined as an authority, which is also the Commission. Here we have suggested that the short-term solution should not, as the President of the Commission writes, be brought by the Commission. After all, there are only five of them, there are no 55, when the efficiency of work suggests that an incoherent body makes decisions. You reject the amendment calling for an explanation for the refusal of Mrs Pop-Lazic's amendments, and she had an amendment relating to the conflict of interest. It has nothing to do with what we're proposing. What's the matter here? In several places, the President of the Commission has the right to conclude, and there is often no right to appeal to these conclusions. Let's say, the launch by official duty. The Commission is initiating the procedure for examining the injury to competition, and the conclusion on the initiation of the procedure is made by the President, and there is no right to appeal. This article 37 is the only member... Here, you see, decisions taken by the Commission, Article 38: "About harming competition, on individual exemptions and approval or banning concentration, the Commission makes solutions. “ So the president draws conclusions, and the Commission makes decisions. In article 37, you, for the one time, gave that president the right to make a decision, in a brief procedure, without questioning. The second point is, ‘The Commission President shall take the decision in a brief procedure’. Why the solution? The Commission may adopt a solution directly, without conducting the examination procedure. It's a brief procedure. So the Commission is making a solution to say - we will not question whether there is an illicit concentration because there is no unauthorized concentration, we see at first sight that there is no unauthorized concentration. That's where you gave the President of the Commission the right to come to a solution. We want institutions to work, not people. That's why we kind of wanted this to be an independent body. Now, when elected specifically by the Assembly, when the Committee proposes it, and yet there are politicians, when the law is given to the President of the Commission such great authority, the minority parallels with the Commission, we think it is a way of affecting one man. That is why I am sorry that we have not submitted the amendment, although it would be pointless for the members of the Commission and the president not to be elected on a proposal from the Committee but rather as it has been, on the proposal of authorised proposings. I really don't understand why you leave this President of the Commission so much authority, why the Commission simply doesn't come up with a solution. Why is it that only here in Article 37 of that President of the Commission you give the right to come to a solution when everything else is final? To be more interesting, when the procedure is already in place and when the interview takes place and the official in charge of the procedure draws a conclusion, his conclusion on the carrying out of the evidence is a possible complaint, but when the President of the Commission concludes something, then there is no appeal. This was not enough, but the President of the Commission is also making a solution in the shortened procedure, which actually means amnesty from illicit concentration and monopoly. Too much authority for one man.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22899	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22900	Mr. Minister, we have provided for the erasure of Article 39 item 2 which provides for the use of the Internet in certain cases when it comes to the delivery of letters. We believe that it is sufficient that what you have defined in paragraph 1, that this is done in accordance with the rules of the general administrative procedure. To avoid dilemmas, we are not against the use of modern information technologies, but when it comes to their application in Serbia, Serbia has, unfortunately, done everything in the last nine years to be at a very low level in this context. The fact that these technologies are weak and relatively small in Serbia could possibly lead to some ambiguities, problems or different interpretations of this law. Given that my party is out of time, I will take this opportunity to invite you and to appeal to you to take advantage of your authority and to address one subject within the jurisdiction of your ministry in the municipality from which I come. He can be brought into context with this law. The public company Vodavod, against the laws and statutes, raised public service prices in January this year. Since then, citizens have complained. The procedure was initiated and the inspection bodies of your ministry came out and on several occasions ordered this same leadership, the arrogant leadership of the Public Enterprise to return those prices, but this is not happening. In the end, they were forced to file proceedings, or to file charges with the competent judicial authorities, but prices still do not return. They explain that the problem is that there is no answer from your ministry. I would appeal to you, on my own behalf and on behalf of the citizens of my community, to resolve this case and to end this agony in my community.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22901	The 40th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Would you like a word, Mr. Jeremiah? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22902	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS Group refers to Article 44. It's a bill of law. It is a matter of obligations to supply and to take into account documents and documentation, i.e. as explained by the applicant: ‘In respect of the delivery of documents or data contained in written, electronic or other form, Article 44 provides for the obligation of the party to act upon the conclusion of which such data is to be supplied, if the party is obliged to possess them under specific rules or if it is reasonably presumed to possess them. “ With the amendment that I have submitted, I request a erasure in the position of Article 2 44, which is precisely the part relating to the suspicion resulting from the absence of that evidence and will be taken to the detriment of a party who has not acted by order. The amendment was not accepted for the reason that, as it stands here, "the formulation of the proposed law is clearer and more celery". It really doesn't make sense why this amendment wasn't accepted. And the law itself, we could hear it during the whole day's debate, there's a lot of shortcomings and illogicalness to be such an argument to refuse amendments. Because we have such a bill, it is normal for the state of Serbia to lend trade monopolies, so I will remind myself of a meeting held on 3 February of this year, attended by, among other things, representatives of Delta, Mercator and Metro, where it has been announced that it will help these monopolies to pay suppliers, which means they will be able, on double-favourable conditions, to get to cheaper capital to pay suppliers before payment deadlines. So instead of helping the poor layers of Serbian society, factories, etc., helping those announcing the company's turnover in 2009 increased by 36%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22903	The title above article 45 and article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22904	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 45. It's a bill of law. The amendment is based on the real situation in our country. The following example shows this: Dijana Markovic-Bajalovic, president of the Competition Protection Commission, said in an interview with the daily Blic since 3 October 2008 – the company "Delta" is a monopoly. There's a monopoly even bigger than the one recorded. "Delta" holds a 70% monopoly on the Belgrade market. Then Mrs. Bajalovic says it threatened her and her family and concludes that some monopolies believe they are stronger even than the state. This should also be added to the following facts: a statement by the vice-president of Delta at an EU-dedicated meeting in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. She then claimed that a greater synergy of business and politics was needed. Its second statement is that the company Delta (means, private company) expects, at a time when Serbian citizens are growing worse and worse living, revenue for this year of about three billion euros. Given this fact, it is clear that the law will essentially remain a dead letter on paper, if the state and the competent authorities do not face the Delta monopoly, in principle as did Oleg Deripasco in a factory in the Leningrad area a few days ago when he met with Mr Putin. It is a key issue for today's Serbia, for the government and for all the parties that need to be declared on such key topics, not to confuse the people with phrases about the East and the West, the North and the South, the EU, Kosovo and Metohija and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22905	The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the 49th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 51 and 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 57th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's debate in the morning we found one fact that the government's representative did not deny, which is that the Serbian economy is absolutely in an unequal position when it comes to foreign companies that, above all, come from Slovenia and Croatia. Despite the European rhetoric of the two countries, despite claiming that their goods are competitive even on the European market, Slovenians who have been EU members since 2004, are primarily doing so, the fact is that the two countries export most of their products, under extremely unfavourable conditions, to Serbia, to our country. So there are few Slovenians, especially Croatian products in France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, the UK, but there are many in Serbia. Also, as for what you have claimed since 2000, which is that you have reportedly some friends in the West who want to help Serbia, give some big money, and these days you mention some pre-accession funds of which Serbian citizens will benefit greatly, the practice has shown that this is not so, that you have no friends in the West, but that you have large companies, corporations that only view Serbia as a potential market and nothing more. The worst part is that you have absolutely subordinated the Serbian economy to the interests of Slovenian and Croatian tycoons, and that the Serbian economy has virtually no possibility of going to either Slovenian or Croatian markets. You do it all the time, systematically. You are doing this to the extent that you are strikingly and publicly that it is already beginning to offend the common man's common sense in Serbia. Otherwise, what you wrote in article 58...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22907	Time. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras together submitted the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 63rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Slobodan Maras. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The government has accepted this amendment. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22908	The amendment provides for absolute obsolescence over a five-year period instead of three. The reason for the submission of the amendment is to prevent the extension of the time limit from taking part in the market which has committed the injury and to whom the measure has been imposed avoids payment of penalties. The reasons for submitting this amendment are purely practical. The law's intensity is to fight monopolies, and the purpose of the law should be to protect consumers. This is how it's supposed to be. Is it just like that in practice? Is there monopolies behaviour in Serbia? Of course he does. There are so many systems or multi-companions in Serbia that control everything from raw materials production, with control or import or distribution and seed goods, artificial fertilisers, pesticides, to the production and distribution of finished products, with the dictation of the prices of these products. What's this about? Is it a monopoly or not? There are a lot of examples like this, and there are a lot of large-scale companies that really have a monopoly on our market. State shut up. Don't do anything to protect your citizens, your consumers, and everything shoots on their backs. Indeed, there is no one to protect the citizens of Serbia, there is no one to protect these extreme consumers, and they need to protect the very government of Serbia, you who are in power, because there is one saying that says - poor sheep, we will somehow protect ourselves from wolves, but who will protect us from our shepherds?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22909	Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic submitted to the 74th amendment. The amendment was accepted by the government. The 75th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. The amendment was accepted by the government. The 78th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. The amendment was accepted by the government. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic. The amendment was accepted by the government. Member of the 79th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Tabakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22910	counterpart Zoran Antic has submitted an amendment to Article 79, which reduces the four-month deadline for harmonisation, i.e. for the adoption of sub-legislative acts to two months. We believe that this is sufficient time to prepare all sublegal acts, especially as the regulation that is treated with this basic law is quite formed, we have a practice from which very easy work is created – the formation of sublegal acts. With this occasion, I would like to point out that time, like four months or twenty, does not affect the government's quality relationship when it brings in a sublegal act at all. The reason for this may be even more significant than the loss of this two months, as long as the Government provides for itself to coordinate the acts, as regards one basic law or calls on all businessmen or entrepreneurs to compete with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development for the use of funds largely advertised, promote economic aid. In a lower act, which in this case can be called conditionally sublegal, that call and that advertising is converted into much stricter conditions, or conditions that in no way can be declared something that helps entrepreneurs and those they want to finance. In particular, it is about the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and Advertising site where they announce they have singled out four billion dinars, not their own funds, private ones, from the sale of private assets to government members or representatives of the ministry, but from funds collected in the Republic of Serbia's budget, of which 3.1 billion dinars from the budget and 0.9 billion dinars based on the payment of the war from previous years. So, also the funds of the budget. Dear citizens, in the ministry's ad, the conditions for obtaining credit are the following: the minimum amount of the loan is 500,000 dinars and the highest two and a half million. What I'm drawing attention to is that the interest rate is 1% on an annual basis, and that really seems favourable, tempting, encouraging. It says it's a three-to-five-year maturity with a 12-month start-up period. It's perfectly polite. The credit returns to dinars every three months and writes, a sentence has been added after the point, that the war is tied to the euro on the middle course of the NBS on the day of maturity. If you click on an active link in this ad where you will find more precise conditions for using what is advertised, you will meet the following conditions, that credit is granted under the following conditions: amount of 500,000 dinars up to 1.3 million and now, a key part of advertising, offer or reality – an interest rate of 1% on an annual level, followed by a decimal and a supplement: "with the application of the currency clause". Indeed, the repayment of the loan will take place in three months of annuities, and then there will be an explanation: “The currency clause implies the establishment of the debt in euro on the day of the exchange of loans and the recalculation of debt into the dinar equivalent at the middle rate on the day of maturity, which cannot be less than the nominal amount of the released loan. “ The same conditions and three - five - year repayments remain, with a period of 12 months. Dear citizens, Mr Jelasic promises to support you when you sue business banks because they unduly increase interest rates or do not determine the loan war as explained to you, and you have not seen those fine letters at the bottom of the contract, but does not support you when the government does so in a similar way. I'm not going to say the same, but this is an example of how you can lie by half telling. In calling for competition, you have conditions that are not sufficiently precise, and when you are interested in using this credit you get the following conditions: your credit is calculated in the currency at the middle rate of the NBS on the day of release, but when you return the rates you feel that currency clause with full weight, and the good intention of the state is seen in that part of the sentence where it says that on the day of arrival of that war, and even part of the debt, can't be less than the nominal amount of the released loan. On such a clause, Mr. Djelic gained a high rating at the bank “Crete Agrikola” because a member of these contracts with entrepreneurs and small businessmen was exactly like that: if the course grows, you pay interest at a higher rate; if the course falls, you pay at the lowest rate in dinars, so that the bank always earns, and uncertainty always stays on the side of whoever takes the loan. To repeat, something that in this case I bind to the amendment, which I call a sublegal act, although it is not in the legal sense, but it is a precision of the way in which the government itself calls aid, means that the currency clause implies determining the debt in euro on the day of the exchange of loans and recalculating the debt into the dinar equivalent per medium rate on the day of maturity, which cannot be less than the nominal amount of the released credit. Do only banks or banks do that to citizens by looking up to the government when it does business? Who are we making all these laws, regulations, and who are we trying to cheat on? By cheating on the economy, in fact, we're cheating on ourselves. By destroying the power of one whose back we live on and who sustains us, we destroy ourselves. By giving the committees the right to lay down sublegal acts for four months, what are we enabling them to do? To make something this brilliant, to keep a hole in the law or some petty obstacle that will overcome the obstacle. I don't think that's a good way to go. If we work Fridays to 12pm, and then Monday we start working at 12, by the government's mistake and not by our will, it means that we all have to do a lot more and that these two months of work the government spend on bringing in a sublegal act and that this law starts to apply as soon as possible, because the fish always smells like a head, and the good host says - look up to me how well I do, so you do the rest of you. That's how the government has to behave, and it has to show us on every legal proposal that comes into this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22911	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 79th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you may be a good man, you write songs, but you have no capacity to solve problems related to the protection of competition. I submitted an amendment to Article 79, where I suggested that the four-month deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts be reduced to 30 days. Since there is already regulation in that part, we believe that this can be completed within the time limit. Mr. Minister, when I said you didn't have the capacity to solve these problems, it was based on the following facts. I guess I'm sure you know that to enter the company "Delta" per bar code, it is necessary to pay 200,000 dinars. Imagine an economic operator who deals with the package, has between 20, 50 or 70 products and for entering the Delta company has to pay 200,000, or for "Idea" or "Metro", where it costs 50 euros per bar code. What happens next? Big systems are organizing prize games. Who pays the tribute? They pay the producers. Whose producers are these? These are Serbian citizens who know how and in what way and in these last nine years under your authority have tried to organize or self-organize so that they can employ themselves and their family. Now there are some chains that you favor, you appear at their openings, and you allow them to choke small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in this way. Then you know for sure that the retail price may be up to 40%. They dictate both the conditions, the rebates and everything that once the manufacturer negotiated with traffic organisations, traffic operators; now it's all big chains, under the auspices of Serbian or some other capital, that's all the same. You're not in a situation, you have no potential, not you personally, but this government, to solve these problems. The law is necessary in itself, but what you predicted in it will not protect the citizens of Serbia, nor the business entities that are based in Serbia and who have put all their life, work and any other experience in the role of improving the conditions of life in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22913	Mr. Milosavljevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22914	Dear Mr. Perry, I'll say two or three sentences about myself. I graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, mastered and doctored in the same area of management and macroeconomic conukture. I'm an extraordinary professor in trade and trade policy. I was more than ten years employed and Director at the Institute of Market Research in Belgrade; afterwards both Minister and President of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, so I can't accept your finding that I don't have the qualifications and that I don't know how to do this job. And this law, like everything I do, I do with the best of intentions. Me and my associates are doing our best to make a quality and applicable law. The number of amendments we adopted shows that we have a good intention of listening to what you as MPs have to say in order to help make the law even better. I really think that these personal, to say the least, reviews and opinions about me or anyone are not standing the way you said them. As for trade chains and the price suppliers must pay for entering the trade chain, it is not a product of Serbian trade, it is a standard that applies almost everywhere in the world. All the largest trade chains, starting with world business leaders, such as the US Volmart, which ended last year with $346.000 million of annual traffic or turn over, operate in almost identical ways. We live in a time when companies have primates in the world business. It used to be companies in the field of energy, steel, automotive industry, IT sector. For the past few years, world business leaders have been companies in the trade sector. It is present here in Serbia. Of course, I'm not happy when those little ones who want to show up on the shelves and come in contact with consumers have to pay the price that's too high for them, but simply, as a trade minister, I have no right or power to influence agreements that economic operators make among themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22915	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Peric, there is no basis for your reporting, nothing offensive, nothing vague. Mention is not a reason for replication. There's no reason for replication. (Greto Peric: I was misread. ( b) How have you been misread? There's no basis for replication. National MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic submitted together to the 80th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Jasmina Milosevic and Petar Petrovic submitted to the 81st amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22916	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, at the end of the debate on amendments, I would like to thank again all those who have carefully read the law and good intentions to help make this law more quality than the original proposal. This is indeed true for all MPs and members of all parliamentary groups. Once again, by the ministry and the government, there have been very useful proposals both after this debate and after the inclusion of these amendments, I am glad to be able to realize that the law is better than it was. Just two more words about the goals that we want to achieve with this law: first of all, a higher degree of competitiveness in Serbia's market; a greater attractiveness of our country to attract foreign investment; then, a greater benefit for consumers through greater competitiveness and lower prices and better product supply. We also want this law to help and contribute to ensuring that the entire territory of Serbia is sufficient and equally, if possible, attractive to investment wherever possible, especially in the trade sector, because consumers, wherever they live and wherever they work, have the same right to choose and meet their needs in the best possible way. I urge you to support this law in the voting day. This law is much more than one law, it is also one of the conditions for the continuation of Serbia's European integration and for the adoption of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. More than anything else, this law is a mechanism based on which an independent institution, the Competition Protection Commission, will be able to do its job, to be operational, to report to you (this was one of the initiatives) that you too can evaluate their work, but also the possibility that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the proposed candidates, based on a public competition that will be called in accordance with this law, will choose the really most professional, most qualified people, with the most practice, but I must say, and the courage to deal with problems in this segment facing Serbia's economy. Once again, thank you for, I would say, general support for the adoption of this law, and once again, I urge you to vote in favour of this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22917	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for both you and your associates. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – PROPOSITION OF THE ZAKORO O CENTRAL OF THE State aid (in particular) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Radojko Obradović, Nenad Popović, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksić, Vladan Jeremić, Milorad Buh, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Zoran Krasić, Srboljuvić Žutić, Radiša Ilić, Branka Ljiljak, Momčina Arsić, Dragan Acimović, Elena Božan-Talijan, Jorgvanka Tabaković, Ževinović, Lidija Vukić, Jadranka Vuković, Jadranka Mražan Žažanović, Možanović, Možanović, Momožan Živić Zović, Momiljić Zović and Živić Živić Zivić, Branjković, Dragan Živić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22918	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the government's authorised representative is here, do not mind, but I am sorry that Minister Dragutinovic is not there. I'm simply sorry that I can't make an argument in front of her for this important law. I'll talk about my amendment, and you can count the rest of the time from the time of my MP's club. For the first time, we have introduced a law on state aid and for the first time this law enters our legal practice. For the sake of the public, one more important and interesting detail should be pointed out: this law has, including those transitional and final provisions, 25 members; the government itself has proposed nine amendments to its 25-member law, 36% of the law has been amended to the amendments to the Government, and the ruling majority has proposed six to the various members, six more amendments that have been accepted; one amendment to the opposition to Article 7 has been accepted, so that in this law which has 25 members has been amended by amendments of a total of 16 members. I don't think that ever happened. It would be good to say that in favour of Parliament's work, unfortunately, it is not so. The law was so vague and undefined that it had to be changed, practically, into two-thirds of its text. The purpose of my amendment to Article 1 was precisely to highlight and strengthen the two most important things this law should define – rules for granting state aid and a way to implement and recover state aid. Whatever state aid can be, that defines this law. When you look at what falls within the domain of state aid, it is clear how much attention it is necessary to approach the adoption of this law and how much attention it takes to access the control mechanism, which is precisely the two weakest link in this law. State aid, within the meaning of this law, are: State subsidies, guarantees, tax reliefs, loans and loans under more favourable conditions than marketable, land sale and state-owned property under the market price, purchase of goods and services by the State at prices higher than marketable, risk capital, etc. When you look at it, this looks a little like the script and content of Insider, but when you look at what's in the domain of state aid, it's clear how much this law is needed and, on the other hand, how dangerous this law can be if it's not applied in the right way. This law should regulate and prevent distortions of competition on the market, and this is quite linked to a law that was just now on the agenda, a law concerning monopoly and monopoly. State aid is primarily granted to improve economic development, to remove serious economic disturbances, to improve the development of certain economic activities. When you look at all the state aid and what it's used for, then the basic thing is to see who's going to make that decision and how it's going to be controlled. What is the basic instrument of control, as predicted by this law? A special commission is formed, quite vague in its sense and functioning, and the commission is represented by four members who are representatives of the ministries: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Regional Development and Economy and the Ministry of Environment. There is also one representative of the Competition Protection Commission. The law says full logistics support is provided by the Ministry of Finance. It's not said anywhere whether these people are employed by the Ministry of Finance or not, whether they're on permanent duty, they're just said to receive compensation. Mr. Minister, you are the minister of one ministry, tell me how often it happens that some ministry officer points to the mistakes committed by the minister. The commission, composed of ministry employees, should control what the government is doing. The amendment of one MP to submit the report to the National Assembly was not accepted, but was submitted to the Government. We cannot get a report from a budget inspection, which is required under the law, not by the Commission, which will carry out and deliver its report to the Government. It is said that the basic element is transparency. What kind of transparency is that if that report might come to a cabinet session, perhaps not? The public and the Serbian Parliament have no insight into that. 15 days ago, when the minister was here, when we talked about transparency, we were talking about that famous pay law. The minister said the law is being implemented and the government has full control over the salaries of state administration employees. Statistics came in for April. When you compare April and May the month, you will see that the salaries in local public enterprises have been significantly increased, even realistically by 7%, that the salaries in public enterprises have been increased at the state level by 7%, that the salaries in the administration have been increased by 7%. What happened? As soon as announced, it is popular for the public, a law that will reduce and additionally tax salaries from 40,000 to 100,000 for 10%, wages over 100,000 for 15%, all employees in the state administration and public enterprises have raised salaries just as much as possible that these reductions do not have any effect. The government is unable to control even those below it, and we will control state aid by having four ministry officials and one competition protection officer who will exercise proper control of all this. I say, this law is extremely important, this law first appears with us and this law is extremely dangerous if it is not implemented in the right way. In view of the solutions proposed in this law, it is clear that this law cannot be implemented in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22919	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Mr. Jeremiah, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1(1) to add the words "approval rules" after the words "general conditions". I believe that this member of the law would be more clearly defined and regulated. The government's explanation for the refusal of this amendment is something that could absolutely be overcome, as it says that key words are missing to be legally correct and fundamentally acceptable. The key word is only the lack of a "i" ally, and that would absolutely make sense to this amendment and could be accepted as an integral part of Article 1 of this first article's position. I believe that, with this legal and technical correction, the amendments could be accepted, as it would further contribute to the revision of the proposed state aid control law. I'm sorry Minister Dragutinovic isn't here. I don't know how much Minister Milosavljevic is able to possibly accept something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22921	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Excuse me, the government has accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22922	We have submitted several amendments to Article 1 with different types of interventions to change this text of the 1st position. However, after all this, as the law began and was conceived, I draw attention to the fact that, under State aid, benefits are also being taken to remove harmful consequences. If these social givings are without discrimination that these funds can only be used for certain goods, but for certain goods, and if it is a matter of removing the consequences of natural disasters, then the law has failed the subject. The purpose of this concept listed in Article 1 is that if the State gives aid, it does not harm the principles of the market economy, that it does not distort competition. If giving is a social character, by definition there is no distortion of competition, as natural persons appear as users. It's a classic state-of-the-art compression. If it's about removing the harmful consequences, then it's about something else; there's a commission that's in charge of removing the harmful consequences, and it's another procedure. I think there's been a rough replacement of thesis here. State aid that could be granted and could endanger competition... This is exactly what we talked about a few days ago – if someone under more favourable conditions from the Development Fund provides credit for, for example, craftsmanship for their product, and a competitor who makes a similar product cannot already provide craftsmen with a debt with a business bank, where interest is completely different, then the state has implemented an act of mixing and distorting the same position of market participants. Here simply in the name of the law is one thing, in the text of the law something else, and as state aid is taken regardless of what level the government gives something that is aid. I don't think this law meets any conditions to be adopted in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22923	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Do you want to? You just want to sign up, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22924	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8(1) to delete. Here it is explained that it is necessary to form a Commission for State Aid Control, but I, ladies and gentlemen, wonder how many for these eight-nine years the commission has been formed, has a grant control committee been formed, worth $6.5 billion? Where did that money come from? What about the donations that came in energy? You remember well, in 2000, it came down to southern Serbia, especially Nis, and former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic never publicly said where these energies were blending; they were probably pouring into the purchase of this country in Frusko Gora, which he is now using as a private entrepreneur. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, who built the Bondsteel military base in Kosovo and Metohija? Probably not the Americans brought their machinery and their entrepreneurs. Is that control, did the commission control where that money, who paid taxes, was the money being poured into the state budget? I don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen, what about many affairs or the biggest sugar affair? Did the commission find out if the authorities found the biggest culprit for the affair, and we remember well that Pitic was involved, Djelic... (President: Excuse me, two minutes, you will from the time provided for your... No, I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22925	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a State aid control law, which reads: In Article 1(2), the word ‘no’ is deleted. Article 1 lays down general conditions and procedures for State aid control in order to protect free competition on the market. However, in paragraph 2, you stated that the provisions of this law do not apply to primary agricultural production and fisheries. The amendment to the SRS is now intervening that the provisions of this law also apply to primary agricultural production and fisheries. The reason for not accepting the amendments is given in the government's statement, which says the amendment is not accepted because the existing draft law is based on the provision of Article 38a of the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between the European Community on the one hand and the Republic of Serbia on the other hand, which is subject to the obligations of the Republic of Serbia. What the Serbian Radical Party pointed to during the debate on the adoption of the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs has now come full term. This position 2 concerns primary agricultural production and fisheries, but regardless of which agricultural production is concerned, Serbia suffers huge damage due to the trade agreement in terms of unfavourable and, I would say, disproportionate imports, or exports of agricultural products. That's why the first blow will feel, although they already feel, our agricultural producers. For our products, even with the subsidy, there will be no place on the European market, because even then they will be more expensive than EU products. As a result, there are quotas in the EU, above all, for certain agricultural products. It will be the first to feel the raspberries, the quota that will be set for Serbia's production and exports will range from 10 to 15,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22927	Time. Would you like to use the time of the parliamentary group? The People's MP Branko Ljiljak submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added after Article 2. A new member of 2a, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. The government has accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after Article 4a, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. The government has accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment and asked for a more precise definition of what state aid is and in which areas it can be used. I asked that larger funds, when it comes to economy, be allocated to those actions that provide exports from the territory of the Republic of Serbia from our domestic industry. The argument given to me by the Government, why my amendment refuses, reads: "The amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution is limited only to the actions identified by the export strategy as priority, which is not the essence of the provision contained in Article 5(3) of the Law proposal, which is broader than the proposed amendment. “ I would like the government's representative to explain what we in Serbia want to develop. Many here swear on agriculture, and agriculture has one chronic shortage – the low price of agricultural products, which chokes domestic agricultural production. This deficit can only be eliminated if we have a agricultural processing industry, which will place agricultural products outside the country. Did the state do anything about it? The whole old SFRY has lived since the export of agricultural products, and most of all from this territory. It is that Serbia has served as a base for various companies in Croatia and Slovenia to buy products from here, process, and export out, but I am interested in whether this government, which... (President): Excuse me, do you want to use the time... ? Go ahead. Go ahead. Yes, I want to use the time of the parliamentary group. I'm interested in whether this government, which has more or less continuity than ten years, which allegedly opened our production capacities to Western Europe, has done something about it? We have now passed several legislations that regulate the area of standardisation. We even started closing agricultural and processing facilities because they don't meet the HASAP requirements. Has the state made it possible, through various subsidies and state aid, for these capacities to be modernised so that they can standardise their products and not only sell their products to Serbia but also outside? There's an opinion that we have a market that's looking forward to us, just so we can do something, we can sell the goods there. That's not true. Every market, as liberal as it is, sets its own terms what kind of goods it wants to buy. We, on the one hand, have allowed all agricultural and processing facilities to be closed, sold for decommissioning or operated exclusively on the domestic market. We also have a problem with the price of living cattle, we have a problem with the stock fund, which is already, especially when it comes to large livestock, about extinction. So I'm surprised why the government only meets certain legal conditions, and it doesn't adjust and prepares the economy of the Republic of Serbia for an extremely difficult match waiting for us with EU and import lobby producers, who still managed to bring the Free Trade Agreement into force, unilaterally by the Republic of Serbia, and now, Madam Minister, you have a problem with still having a deficit, which you don't know how and from which sources to cover it, except to put more burden on citizens and agriculture. But unfortunately, it doesn't come off, so you have that problem. Think about it all, so you can separate this little money you plan to spend on agriculture for the right things: modernising agricultural capacities, modernising the agricultural and processing industry, so that we can export it. Don't let us hear for a month that some minister from the Government of the Republic of Serbia has borrowed or received some state aid, and instead of a sheep farm opened a cafe, as did your former colleague from the same party, Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22929	The amendment, which is added after Article 5, by a new member of 5a, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, the general conclusion regarding this law is that the proposal missed the topic. The first thing the proposer should have done is to determine what state aid is and what state aid is allowed under international law, i.e. (you swear in the EU) under EU rules, or under the EU Treaty, because the Treaty establishing the European Community defines a system of state control, but are defined and basic rules, what state aid, which we have, is a way of giving state aid, etc. In the first five members of this proposal, we mixed everything we could mix up on the basis of state aid, what goes into state aid, what's illegal state aid. It is unclear, completely unclear and unacceptable from the aspect of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. When defining state aid, the Proposer must define the conditions for granting and State aid, all essential elements shall be granted and assistance and the way in which State aid is recovered in situations where this State aid is shared. What you did with Article 1 clearly speaks about the character of the promoter. You said in Section 2: "The provisions of this law do not apply to primary agricultural production and fishing", and then you corrected this with the amendment of the Government, but you did not change the subject. Here you had to say what aid is doing in the area of agriculture and fisheries, how you help you, who are the users; further, return and help in situations where this aid is returning. This is how you've left so much uncertainty and legal void that it's amazing for a proposing who swears he wants to solve and resolve this. (President: You are wasting the time of the parliamentary group. I'll keep going. There must be specific and clear provisions on state aid control. Also, from what you've prescribed here, you haven't properly solved the issue of state aid control. In the proposal (which I propose to delete), you said it was a Commission for State Aid Control. Later provisions show that it is a commission mainly made up of ministry representatives, representatives of the executive authority. So, those who create the entire policy in the area in which state aid is invested. The same policy makers, who transfer funds, which exercise dedicated control over the use of these state aid funds, will later exercise control over state aid spending. The Serbian Radical Party's proposal is for it to be an organ that is otherwise defined by the Constitution as a control body, which is the Assembly. It is our proposal that it be the committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that it exercise control. It is interesting that you in article 6 and later members who define the question of this committee have not left room for any national representative. By doing so, you directly violate the provisions of Article 98. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is an executive control body and it is unthinkable that there are no representatives of the National Assembly, or the National Assembly, who will exercise that control. Our proposal, I think, is for the SRS, to be a committee of the Assembly, which will take care of all the essential elements of state aid spending. It is the funds paid by Serbian citizens and it is appropriate to be an authority, i.e. the Committee of the National Representation, or the National Assembly. The proposal is to make it seven members. How to choose, etc., that's another thing. It is a fundamental observation by the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22931	Thank you. To the title above article 6 and to Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22932	It's not clear what the concept of this bill is. I just tried to explain that what's mentioned in Article 4. A bill of law is something that exists as a ministry obligation. The assistance of social character by units of local self-government already exists and is known from which means and under which conditions payment can be made. As for removing harmful consequences, both local self-government units and the Republic of Serbia have funds for these purposes. What is under Article 5, it has been the subject of debate for three days – regional development. It's identical. The difference is that under the Regional Development Act, Junior has control, and under this law, DS will have control. To read to you: “State aid that can be allowed is aid granted: 1) to improve the economic development of the territory of the Republic of Serbia with an extremely low standard of living or with a high unemployment rate... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We talked about it for six days in Junior Law. The younger one had a national council of 15 ministers, 19 members and the 20th, as president, and the Democratic Party now wants within the finance ministry, or the government where it has the domination, where it has its five-member commission, to control some state aid. Well, isn't all the funding given for regional development a state aid? Please, pull things like this. And don't call on the EU anymore. We're going to freeze that EU, and we're going to think -- what kind of IQ is there.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22933	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Mr Milan Avramović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22934	Like my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 6 of Section 1. I just need to remind you of some details, that in early 2009, the Serbian Radical Party published its anti-crisis programme and that the programme was made up of 1.3 billion euros, of which 84,000 euros are invested by the state of Serbia, and the rest of the money comes from foreign banks. Foreign banks need to provide the rest of the money to implement the Serbian anti-crisis programme. The first measure provides that the priority is to help companies that have to repay debts or to provide them with their liquidity. For this purpose, the government envisioned 21,000,000 euros from the budget and the state money will be paid to banks, which are mostly foreign-owned in Serbia. Not to mention, there's a protocol of 18. 2. that are banks. The banks should provide loans worth 422,000,000 euros to Serbian businessmen at favourable interest, 5.5% seem to me to be concerned that ultimately Serbian businessmen should return those loans to the end of 12 months. What's scandalous is that he's in a meeting, held on 3rd. 2. In 2009, which was attended by Minister of Trade Milosavljevic and attended, among other things, by representatives of Delta, Mercator and Metro, announced that they would help these monopolies pay off suppliers. Trade monopolies will be able to reach cheap capital under double favourable conditions to pay suppliers before payment deadlines. So this is a kind of state aid control, which failed to help the poor layers of Serbian society or factories that are being shut down after each other, but the state will help Serbia's largest monopoly and oligarch, who is increasingly rich, the owner of the company Delta, Milorad Miskovic, who even announced on the 18th anniversary of the company Delta that the company's turnover will grow by 36% in 2009. I propose on behalf of the SRS that, instead of helping this oligarch, the Serbian government make a list of the most significant and most endangered factories, whose production must not be stopped, such as the Russian government, and that for that list of the 300 most significant factories, all the resources they have. This will best help this country, without any additional control and additional institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22935	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22936	Article 6 defines the selection of people in the Commission for State Aid Control. In the position of the 4th basic bill, it is said that a member of the commission may be offered a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who has at least a high degree of expertise and has expertise in the field of state aid, competition and/or EU law. On behalf of the SNS, the Forward Serbia Parliament Club, I asked that item 4 at the end of the text be replaced by a comma and added the text: "the way in which the conditions are proved and assessed will be publicly available". This "publicly available" means that the public can get acquainted with what is the requirement of Article 6 for members of this committee to work on state aid control; that we can really assess, as a public, whether these people have citizenship, whether they have the expertise and the necessary knowledge. Because the seriousness of the task that awaits the commission, as well as the consequences of the decisions it will make, are very serious both for the spending of public funds and for the economy and for the citizens, and it is indeed necessary that all members of the commission can be presented to the public in a way that they have met the conditions required by the law and that they give us evidence. Does anyone think that the argument from the government's refusal is, where it is said that this information is not accepted because the information to which the amendment is concerned may be requested in accordance with the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning... Or do you think this request is too much? Having in mind the bad experience of all of us as citizens of Serbia, where we had a problem proving our citizenship for the current governor of the NBS, who had to bring proof when he was proposed to the vice governor that he was a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and he was not at the moment when he was proposed to that high place... To tell the truth proves a document that I believe is kept in the archives of this house, where an unequivocal answer was received on one parliamentary issue that Mr Jelasic did not have confidence in the nationality of the country for which the vice governor was then proposed. We had cases that Mr Jelasic, Mr Djelic, came from the post of consultants, to be gentle in the formulation, in the middle rank, and that here they come to "the highest" possible places in the state hierarchy. None of us would have been concerned, nor would I have asked for such a condition, if putting these people in those places hadn't produced huge consequences. Mr Jelasic, with the adoption of the National Bank Act, which formulated the independence of monetary policy from all other policies, has produced such freedom to adopt measures in monetary policy that two final accounts speak sufficiently of them. The 2006 NBS final account is worth 370,000,000 euros in losses – a document that we received as MPs in this assembly. The loss of NBS of 170,000,000 euros in 2007 cannot be justified by the costly withdrawal of money because the money that was in monetary flows is also a product of economic policy and a general policy at the level of the government and at the level of the NB, which is made up of party representatives who have been given the right to exercise power. The freezing of Mr. Jelasic's membership as governor and the story that it is about an expert who is not in the competition chosen as an expert suggests that the choice in such places must mean an advance examination of expertise and qualifications. From the Frankfurt branch and from the French branch of the house "Mek Kinsi" both came after the Friday changes. Mr Djelic boasted that he worked his time for the house "Credi agrikol" as a consultant, and his trip from consultant to owner 10% of the action led across the country's budget and cannot and should not be forgotten, but must serve as a good warning. In order to clearly and unequivocally see how this path runs from consultants to owners of 10% of the action, the public must know who the proposed candidates are. The public only had the opportunity to find out after one consultant became, through Sopar SAS, owner of 9.9%, because the laws on money laundering and other laws that treated that matter said that the investor did not have to legislate with a ID card (speaking conditionally by ID card) and photo. Who is behind Sopar SAS if below 10% is the owner of some shares? So it wasn't 10, but 9.99%, that it wasn't seen that the Sopar SAS company actually stands for Mr Bozidar Djelic, today the owner of the capital of the shares sold or the actions themselves, none of us know it anymore, nor has he been able to establish a Committee to solve conflicts of interest, because they said we need such people who know how to rule money. Perhaps they need them, Mr. Dedeer at the time; these citizens and this state do not need such state aid controllers and such state money managers. For this reason and many reasons, which I will not give this occasion, but some others, about who owns our debt, who gave it to, and how many have become the owners of the most important values in Serbia and how they have destroyed the will of young people to regularly reach professional heights and state heights, I will speak to someone else. But with this amendment, I warn you that in the name of the future, it is very important not to promote unreserved greed and not to encourage it, not to praise it in this place, but that people who decide on important state affairs must, in their proposals, legitimateize their biography in a publicly available way, in advance say that they are not worthy to be controllers. In that sense, I think we really needed to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22937	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6(7) with a proposal to delete it. In the light of the motion that does not accept this amendment, it states, among other things, that the provision of Article 6 is essential here and that this provision regulates the operational independence of the Commission for State Aid Control, which is a special requirement in Article 38(4). A transitional agreement on trade and trade between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not difficult to conclude that this too is being imposed on the outside. Therefore, the SRS notes that however the new draft law arrives on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in each of these government proposals we are meeting with some new state body forming, whether it is the agency, the commission. In this particular case, in the proposal for a state aid control law, we meet with the state aid control commission, so another new state body that the government of the Republic of Serbia is forming, a new body that will be another user of the already burdened budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party wonders where this end is, how does the Serbian government behave at the time of today's economic and any other crisis? What kind of savings does it seem to be exactly the opposite? For these reasons, my amendment, which I have submitted before the SRS, is that of Article 6(7). The draft State Aid Control Act shall be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22939	The amendment, which is added after article 6 by a new member of the 6th, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vuković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS Parliament Club, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7(1). Proposal for a law on state aid control. The bill states: "The funds for the commission's work are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. “ I have proposed to the amendment that Article 1 be deleted. That's how I expressed the SRS' position towards the State Aid Control Commission. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I note that the SRS has nothing against state aid control, on the contrary, but we believe that these transactions could have been organised within the resolution ministry. Within the existing sector, a reorganisation could be undertaken, not a new organisation could be established. We think it's a way to take care of new personnel, and that multiplys a large administration anyway. I will remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is daily talking about reducing public spending, stopping new employment, and we are witnessing that at every newly held session of the National Assembly we have a new law that provides for the establishment of a new agency, councils, commissions, where new people are employed. In doing so, the government has denied itself the intention of reducing public spending. In doing so, it irritates all local self-government units who are told daily that they are too numerous and will lose their jobs because it is necessary to carry out a rationalisation of the number of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22941	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on a proposal from the SRS, and on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on state aid control. My amendment reads: “Article 7(2) is deleted. “ Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, how much more will you pass the laws in which agencies or commissions appear? On the agenda we have eight laws, in every law we have a new member where an agency or commission is established. Explain to citizens how many party colleagues you will hire through these commissions or agencies. I guarantee you that by passing these eight laws that are on the agenda, you will employ between three and five thousand people, or your party colleagues, and increase the number of employees in the state administration. The citizens don't need any state aid, just return what you took from the citizens. Here's an example of what you're doing: The pear has neither NIS nor "Serbiagas", but that's why he has Morava. Every year construction firms project how much they need the cubicity of stone aggregates, i.e. gravel; in a year they deposit 70 dinars per cubic year. The state, the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, has not paid a dinar to the town of Kruševec in eight years for the exploitation of gravel. What does that mean by this law? You give us help, and before that, you take a hat and a hand. You're like a good, good government, you're helping through your commission, and that commission is for money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22943	The amendment, which is added after Article 7 by the new members, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Branimir Djokic submitted the title above Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22944	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 8 paragraph 1. The argument given by the Government refusing to accept this amendment is: “The amendment is not accepted because this would mean changing the essence of the entire article 8. Continuity in the work of the commission is necessary because the commission is an expert body and members of the commission must possess, maintain and improve their expertise. “ Ladies and gentlemen, in the last nine decades, many commissions have been formed to control money flows, but you can see for yourself that there is more crime, corruption, malfeasance. Since the time of DOS formation, or in 2000, when you came to power, donations have come from abroad from your great friends, which is to help farmers, donations in artificial fertilizers, and the state has twice earned money: it has received free fertilizer through donations, but it has therefore been a fertilizer selling to farmers and in this context it has spoken – this is how this government or this government helps you. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of the audit institutions doing their jobs, and you have to go back and examine your business, you shouldn't do that because most of those who have found some of the government today are on the other side of the law. I therefore believe that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure; you have probably seen the SRS demand that all members of this law be deleted because it is another attempt to wash yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22945	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Mr. Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22946	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. The proposal for a State aid control law to delete Article 8 paragraph 2(3). This Article 8 refers to the appointment and termination of the term of office of a member of the Commission. So, new law, new commission, that's what I stressed today. In the previous competition law, we also had the Commission and the Council, which was elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Assembly Committee. When this law comes to this commission, the situation is different. This Commission for State Aid Control is educated by the government, on a proposal from the four ministries and the Competition Protection Commission, elected by the National Assembly. In the situation of the general crisis, the government is setting up another state body to be listed as beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget. If the government already appoints four out of five members, as many as there are commissions, let them be persons already employed in those ministries, there must be more, as the Minister of State Administration and local self-government spoke about it, so as not to receive compensation. However, Article 6(5) provides for fees for commission work, and Article 7(2) states that the ministry provides space and other working conditions. All that costs: commission, one after the other, advice for advice, building by building, that's a lot of budget costs. Now you need to ask yourself what this commission is for if we saw yesterday that there will be a national council for regional development that should again monitor and make available the funds that will guide the smooth development of the region. So one commission is controlled by DS, another commission, that is, the council controls G17 plus, and it's about the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22947	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22948	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on state aid control is one in a number of those famous to come closer to the EU as a country, i.e., perhaps more importantly, it is something that stems from the commitments made by the Republic of Serbia from the SAA. We still don't think there's an environment for such a single bill to be implemented. I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group to Article 8(2) point 4). It is part of a law that applies, above all, to the appointment and termination of the mandate of members of the commission. I suggest you delete the fourth point in point 2. It is about those terms, if a person is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for at least six months. I believe that this proposed law, given the ambience in the state of Serbia, will not be able to function uninterruptedly and will not lead to what the legislator, or the Government of the Republic, thinks it will achieve this, which is to encourage economic development in the whole, and in particular to improve the economic and social situation of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As a parliamentary group, there is nothing left for us but to request, in principle, the erasure through amendments, that is, the withdrawal of such a legal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22949	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again we have the opportunity to make sure that some of the bill's proposals come out of our entertainment "our joy", i.e. the Government, I apologize. This should be an award-winning act, as Božidar Djelic's work was rewarded, which in elementary school for one of his literary work, why he loved Tito, won the award. I'm asking, why is there no sanction in this bill for anyone who breaks the law? Why aren't there any criminal provisions? As for Article 8, I must say what is known to the citizens of Serbia – 25 ministries, 111 bodies, dozens of state secretariats and other institutions are too much for taxpayers. The skin of the government yells at Serbian citizens and taxpayers; 380,000 officials in public enterprises can neither save America anymore, nor provide the needs they have and which they achieve during their mandate. It is therefore necessary to significantly increase the wage tax in the public sector in order to reduce the number of officials. I ask a question to the Minister - why is this provision of the bill designed for these provisions not to apply to primary agricultural production and fisheries? Why don't you predict something to help the villagers? The tractors are old, swings old, seeds old, plows old, all old, rusty, for waste, and this year you reduced the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture from 27 to 20 billion dinars, or 20%; it was actually reduced by about 50%, taking into account the ministry's 2008 debts. So it's not clear why the state isn't helping farmers and peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22951	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The government has accepted this amendment. National MP Radica Jocic submitted the title above article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Ljiljak. The government has accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22952	This article refers to the Commission's competences: point 1) - previous control; point 2), and to my amendment - the procedure of ex post controls where it decides on the compliance of the state aid granted with the provisions of this law. In point 1), it is decided on the compliance of notified State aid with this law. He well noted Jojic, this is one of the few laws where there are no criminal provisions, and there are no criminal provisions because "the return of the crows does not take out". How would someone from the government punish those who are members of the ministry commission and the users of those who report from the DS Group? Now look at how pointless this looks: so, besides the state aid allowed, there is also state aid that can be allowed; that is, for example, point 4) - to improve protection and preservation of cultural heritage. The commission should now assess the compliance of the request and the notified state aid with the provisions of this law. Who is this genius who can end it? It remained unclear that some intervention in preserving cultural heritage of republican importance and that aid could distort competition on the market. Please, the geniuses of the government called “our joy, ” explain what you wrote.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22953	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government has accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, on the proposal for a state aid control law, I submit an amendment to Article 9 which reads: point 4 is deleted. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Serbian Radical Party believes that in the current situation, a general economic crisis is the establishment of a state body such as the state aid control commission a non-road move by the Serbian government. I can say that the law on state aid control is completely unfair, discriminatory, because it does not cover all citizens of Serbia equally. For example, agricultural producers, who were the most vulnerable throughout the crisis period, and the state had no hearing about their condition and solving their problems. We all know that the only future of this country, the ones to be helped and that they have no right to state aid, and what they received in the previous period, was quite selective. You promote this law as a European law to integrate into the EU. I think it will be a long time before that, and we will meet many more conditions until we join the EU. They may conclude that the Commission's competence in Article 9(4) is centralised and that local self-government and the province have absolutely no authority whatsoever. The Commission is primarily a party, which allows for another type of corruption. Instead of fighting corruption, we encourage it in this way, and it is known, when it comes to corruption, where Serbia is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22955	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Rade Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22956	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad the Minister is here. I've already had an exhibition, if there's time, I'm going to end up talking about some other aspects of this law, and this particular amendment has just been aimed at strengthening transparency and reporting and getting to know all the details of state aid. I've already said that this is an extremely important and necessary law, but it's also a law that needs to regulate one extremely, so to speak, a dangerous area. If that doesn't count and we don't have enough transparency, there are opportunities for abuse. The amendment says the commission should draw up an annual report and deliver it to the National Assembly for introduction. I have to read you a comment, I don't know if you've had a chance to see it, but the public works – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Commission is being educated by the government, on the proposal of four ministries and the Commission for the Protection of Competition, not the National Assembly. In other words, when the government does something, then the National Assembly doesn't need to know. This, of course, was signed by the Prime Minister. For your information, I will now give you at least a few authorities who have an obligation to notify the National Assembly, although they are directly part of the Government and although the Assembly has absolutely no authority over these bodies. One is, for example, the Public Procurement Administration. You know that as a Assembly, we receive monthly reports from the Public Procurement Administration on all public procurement procedures that are being conducted and on all, and particularly urgent, procedures when the law is being bypassed. When two minutes pass, please count the time of the parliamentary group, Mrs. Comic. The Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers reports to us every month, although the Assembly has absolutely no jurisdiction over those bodies. The Budgetary System Act – the budgetary inspection is required to submit a report to the Assembly via the Government, and the budgetary inspection is one sector in the finance ministry. Therefore, I ask that these arguments for the refusal of amendments be at least in accordance with some known and established rules and with some other laws. I don't know who wrote this, but it's obvious he doesn't know a lot of positive regulations. How dangerous is it and how much attention do we have to pay to the report? I must remind you that until two years ago, one of the most important laws, which was the most important focus in the Assembly, was not the budget of the Republic of Serbia. You were a vice governor back then. Maybe you weren't following up on what was going on in the assembly. The budget has always passed with much less discussion than the law on transfer funds to municipalities and cities. It's a law that has always been of absolute interest to all the MPs. The budget has always been passed and voted, i.e. the debate lasted one or two days, and this law was incomparably several amendments because it directly touched all the MPs and the environments from which they came. Two years ago, in the draft budget, when the Prime Minister was Mr. Kostunica, and Finance Minister current Prime Minister Mr. Cvetkovic, the law was abolished and transfer funds, i.e. the amount of transfer funds became an integral part of the memorandum on budgetary and economic policy. We have no longer passed this law, but we, as MPs and the public, were able to gain insight on the basis of the memos. You see the situation we're in today -- you haven't delivered us a memorandum, a change in the 2009 memorandum, although the transfer funds have been reduced from 40 to 25 billion dinars. The government adopted a memorandum several days after the 1 May deadline, but no transfer funds were allocated in the 2010 memorandum. On the basis of what act can we MPs, citizens of Serbia and representatives of municipalities and cities be familiar with the details of the amount of transfer funds? If we're talking about transparency, just tell us how we can get to it. You have to admit it's an extremely important thing. The first six months have passed; when you consider how much this reduction is, the calculation makes it very easy for municipalities and cities to have very little by the end of the year, not to say any funding. On this basis, they should plan their work, as well as the government, or ministries, plan their activities. I just have one more question. When the debate on the law was in principle, you said there was a report on the state aid granted in 2006 and 2007. I looked closely at that site, I couldn't find it, so if you'd... I don't think it's an evil intention, it's somewhere, only if you'd be kind enough to give us information on where we can find that information. I think based on this explanation, you can see how important transparency is. It's not enough that only members of the government get to know the data. This should be the case with both the public and the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22957	The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is 16 minutes and 30 seconds. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the Government. National MPs Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted the 9th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22958	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have an extremely important law on the agenda regarding state aid control. Before I say anything about this law, it is another law from a set of laws that this assembly should pass in order to comply with EU law. But we are really running towards the EU in many things, not solving problems, as our people and ordinary people would say, in their own backyard. At the same time, this law has as a consequence a unilateral application of the SAA. As the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have repeatedly apostropheeded here and said, we are the only country that has unilaterally begun to apply the SAA. Our amendment concerns Article 9, to add after point 5) a new point 6) which reads: “The implementation and effects of the state aid granted and requires the recovery of State aid granted or used contrary to the regulations. ” Before explaining this amendment, I would refer to Article 9 which states the Commission's competence. The Commission: 1) decides in the preliminary control procedure on the compliance of the notified State aid with this law; 2) in the follow-up procedure, it shall decide on the compliance of the State aid granted with the provisions of this law; (3) shall submit to the Government a proposal for an annual report on the state aid granted in the Republic of Serbia; (4) shall cooperate with the State institution responsible for audit operations, the authorities of the Republic of Serbia responsible for the tasks of budgetary inspection, the service of the Autonomous Region, or the unit of local self-government responsible for the tasks of budgetary inspection and other domestic and international bodies, organisations and institutions in the conduct of operations under its jurisdiction. It is normal to follow this amendment, i.e. Appendix 6), because without supervision of the entire cycle related to approval, use, determination of impact, vomiting and others, the commission will be just another one in a series of regulatory bodies. As a result, it is also proposed that, in its jurisdiction and the determination of the effect, i.e. the effect of State aid, as well as the jurisdiction to order the recovery of State aid is granted in accordance with this law. Mr Obradovic said in his presentation that there is a need for supervision and that the National Assembly is one that is the most measuring and should give consent to these programmes to grant state aid, especially as we know from experience that there are, not to say that this is a mass phenomenon, certain abuses that are not under the eyes of the public and control, right through the Public Procurement Authority. I would read, for the sake of the public, the goals achieved by passing this law. As stated in this proposal for a law submitted by the Proposer, for the first time in the Republic of Serbia, the law establishes control in the area of granting and using state aid, in order to prevent distortions of competition in the market through the allocation of public, primarily budgetary, funds in the principle of selectivity. For these very reasons, since this is about budgetary resources, we believe that the National Assembly should be a body that will decide by the will of the MPs, representatives of the citizens, who are owned to control the funds and what the budget is about. "It provides more regular guidance for public (particularly budgetary) funds allocated as state aid, with the aim of achieving greater competitiveness of the economy, based on knowledge and ability to ensure sustainable economic growth with a greater number of new and better paid jobs and greater social cohesion. “ This refers to the EU Lisbon Strategy. I'm reading this because only in this way and in this term can we get to know the essence of this law, and what can arise as a problem from not applying this law. Madam Chairman, we have discussed here several times the term of the Continuance of the Assembly. I'm glad the national service came out this time with a programming scheme that announces that a possible delayed transmission will take place, and I'm afraid it'll be delayed, going within 11.4 hours. It's an ideal time for people who are interested in this law to hear what the MPs are saying here. I warn once again that it is very important here that the National Assembly be the one to exercise control, precisely for these reasons that I have stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22959	National MP, I think the Assembly has been informed that Serbian Secretary-General Stanislav Veljkovic informed Mr Veljkovic that today, on Tuesday 16 June 2009, from 2.00 hours due to previous programme commitments, we will not be able to monitor the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in a direct transfer to Serbia's Second Radio-Television Programme. So, by 8:00, there's a transmission. Also, tomorrow, on Wednesday 17 June 2009, since 17.50 hours for the transfer of the handball game Serbia – the Farska Island will not be able to monitor the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in a direct transfer to Serbia's Second Radio-Television Programme. A recording of the meeting of the Serbian Parliament will be broadcast depending on the length of the session of the National Assembly and the possibility of fitting into the established programme scheme. I ask the Members of Parliament not to earn, if they do not wish us to have the inconvenience of applying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. It's a case of transmissions today, June 16, 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22960	Thank you, Madam Chairman, but obviously we didn't understand each other. I said when, according to the programming scheme, the extension of the delayed transmission and anyone who watched the morning program could see it – so the extension of the delayed transmission is at 01.45 hours. I wasn't talking about the end of this direct transmission. If you've listened carefully, I've only looked back at the extension of the delayed transmission. It is, therefore, according to the programming scheme, from 01.45 hours to 3:45 hours; it is "ideal" time for citizens to look at and hear what the MPs here are saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22961	According to Article 27, I am giving notice, with the notice of MP Milos Radulovic that he is not right on three grounds: you cannot know how long the meeting will take after 1800 hours; no notice has been given that any delayed transmission will be at 12:45 or 01:45 hours, and if you follow the meeting today, you can conclude, by the business provisions of time required for discussion, that it is very likely that today's work will be completed during the direct transfer of the session of the Assembly. Therefore, so as not to bring in delusions or to give false information about the public monitoring session of the National Assembly. The amendment, which is added after Article 9a, by a new member of the 9a, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Vesna Maric submitted to the title above Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22962	Ladies and gentlemen, even if it wasn't for this crisis that we are in, the SRS is against the creation of new state bodies, agencies, regulatory bodies, councils, various commissions increasing the state administration and thus the amount of money citizens need to allocate for its funding. Accordingly, we are also against the establishment of a Commission for State Aid Control, so we have proposed to delete all members of this proposed law that speak of its establishment and work. I remind, at a time, as you called it, the "unnational, dictatorial and wasteful" regime of Slobodan Milosevic in the Serbian government worked eight thousand officials. At the time of the "national" and "domestic" regimes, as you baptized them again, which have ruled Serbia since 5 October 2000 until today, the number of government employees has increased three and a half times, by 20,000 people and now, according to your data, is 28,000 employees. In eight years, you have loaded 20,000 party activists DS, G17, DSS, SPS, 20,000 fathers and mother's sons, godfathers, friends, friends, whose parasites are being paid by increasingly poor Serbian peasants and increasingly poor Serbian workers, what remains of them. Mathematics is devastating: on average, every year, two-and-a-half thousand new employees were employed by their government by the Dossov parties. I repeat, two and a half thousand officers. That's over 200 people a month. If we count only working days, from 5 October 2000 to today you have employed ten new civil servants each day. This is for the Ginis Book of Records! (President: Two minutes. ) One more minute of Parliament time. Since you burned down this building, which later invested several million euros in renovations, and took over power in Belgrade, the Serbian government has more employees than the former SFRY has been in the administrations of all republics together. You keep telling Serbian citizens that it is very important to adopt such European laws. You claim it will improve, make their lives easier, but you don't explain that each of these laws increases the state administration. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I only quote this information: only by applying these laws that we are discussing today and these days, primarily the law on the municipal police, will the state administration be more numerous for at least 500 employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22963	Anyone else want a word? The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legal sense of passing this law is to legalise political corruption of the electoral body. The Democratic Party has bought votes with mobile phones in the past election of bags, packages, Chinese shoes, in the presidential elections, parliamentary, province and local. However, you have so far done this illegally and without legal basis, and now this law, if you adopt it, will give you legitimacy and legality for the electoral theft, or for the corruption of the electoral body. If you read this bill in detail, you will see that state aid can only be given in goods and goods. Now the question is, why can't you give in money? Because you're corrupting the electoral body with different packages. That's why you wrote that state aid can only be given in goods or products. If you read this bill in detail, you will see that the data on the persons to whom the state aid was granted is classified. So, Serbian citizens will not be able to control who it is that got the money from the state budget, from the autonomous province budget or from the budget of the local self-government unit. That's why you do it. That is why you have provided only two cases where state aid can be given, where the first case (individual consumers) is practical and important. Then you will have the legal basis to share your packages again in the next election and to think that these packages will bring you back power, as they brought you back in 2008. All this talk about how the adoption of this law is in accordance with some common European law, how it is an important step in Serbia's accession to the European Union, falls into the water before the fact that this way you will get rid of your hands to try again in the next elections to trick Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22965	Anyone else want a word? The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22966	Dear Presidency, I have submitted an amendment to delete in Article 10(1) point 4 in Article 10. I just can't believe you put one of these laws in the procedure of the Serbian Parliament. Madam Minister, you really seem like one reasonable person, who has a doctoral title in front of his name, and I can't believe that you've allowed or signed or stopped behind this bill to come to the assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22967	Excuse me, MP. I ask MPs who do not turn off mobile phones to do so immediately because it is incredibly rude and inappropriate to leave mobile phones on in the National Assembly Hall and to make phone calls during the session. It is not a matter that is clearly and in detail defined by any provision of the Rules of Procedure, but it is assumed that it cannot hold a mobile phone on in the National Assembly Hall and interfere with a speaking colleague. Whoever's holding it, please turn off mobile phones immediately and let the reputation of the National Assembly not be humiliated by making phone calls or phone calls. This is a job and is not being telephoned, such as the ban on using mobile phones at all public gatherings, let alone official institutions. Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. Myalevich, this time will not be included.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22968	Thank you, Madam Chairman, even though the SRS can't interfere with us and unfocus our cell phones, or your intrusion and help us. I'm moving on. Madam Minister, I conclude that as a serious person, a person with a doctoral title, you would not be able to allow yourself to stand by a bill like this that came into congregation procedure. On the other hand, we see you here in the Assembly and you, like, are trying to defend this. This bill has 25 members. 108 amendments have been submitted. Of the 108 amendments, nine were submitted by the government. So, 108 amendments, you've got four more new laws. With nine of your amendments, you've repaired or reorganized more than 1/3 of this bill. Then the question arises whether these bill proposals that come into the congregation procedure are the fruit of an agreement or conflict in the government. You're really putting us in a confusing situation so we just can't believe what you're giving us here in the Assembly. Secondly, I have submitted an amendment to delete this member, which determines that another commission should be formed to help the government and the ministries manage a little better and more seriously in certain resolutions. Our position is that the administration must be reduced absolutely. My argument is this: "The Serbian Radical Party believes that in the current situation the general economic crisis is the establishment of another state body, such as the State Aid Control Commission, is a non-road, spending move by the government". We have received an answer why my amendment is not accepted, with the following explanation: “The amendment is not accepted, because point 4) is an essential provision of Article 10(1). It's a bill of law. The reasons for the amendment do not indicate the need to accept the proposed amendment. “ I ask the question, who wrote these arguments? What doesn't he see? Is he blind by his eyes or is he a logic center? I mean, really amazing! I've given an explanation, I'm asking, there's an answer we can't accept. Now, don't come to such a conflict in the arguments that it's, I say, just amazing. A little deal in that government, so when you want to push through something that's absolutely illogical, something that must satisfy the interests of your political parties in hiring your staff and in the enormous expansion, increasing this administration, which is really more than a big rock on the neck of this poor people, make such explanations that at least it makes sense to be some more serious lie. Secondly, if someone doesn't see the situation of our economy and what's happening in the country of Serbia, that the workers are self-sufficient, that they're throwing themselves on the track so they can't get run down by a train because they want to free their families of one hungry mouth anymore, or because of that psychological moment that they're not worth it because they can't feed their family, so they don't think they should even live anymore... (President: Two minutes. Give me a minute, call your senses and start doing something. Open up a new factory. Which factory did you open from 2000 to today? How do you plan to get us out of this crisis? With new taxes, new agencies? You can't hire all of Serbia in agencies. Someone's got to get out in the field, somebody's got to get into the factories. But you have to provide these conditions, not tell us things here that really have nothing to do with common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22969	Anyone else want a word? National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Is that what MP Dejan Mirovic wants? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22970	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that this law has been passed to meet the European Union's demands. In that context, the amendment was submitted to Article 11. Of course, this article is about Article 1 that regulates again, as well as the previous law, the protection of competition. As is known, we've considered that law before this. In this regard, as regards the remarks made by Minister Milosavljevic regarding trade monopolies, Volmart and trade chains in the world, he probably knows that several years ago the US's GDP was about $10,000 billion. Volmart's income was $347.00,000, which is about 3.5% of US GDP. On the other hand, Delta's revenue is about three billion euros. The gross social product of the Republic of Serbia for 2007, a year before the crisis, was about 30 billion euros. So Delta's income is about 10% of Serbia's GDP, and that's almost amazing! This data essentially shows how weak the state is, how strong the monopolies are, how inadequate the state aid law and the competition protection law are at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22971	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on state aid control, which we are discussing today, is apparently very simple. At the very beginning of the law, Article 2 defines only three terms concerning this law. The termins would be State aid, a state aid provider and a recipient, i.e. a beneficiary of State aid. Our MP group has submitted a large number of amendments to all three of the mentioned links in the chain. All of them mainly refer to the same thing, pointing to the senselessness of the existence of a state aid control commission as another new one in a series of agencies that simply flood Serbia's state every day. We almost don't remember that a new law was passed in this assembly, while no new agency was created to finance from the Republic of Serbia's budget. There's also an amendment in that light that I suggested. It refers to eradicating the existing Article 11, which refers to State aid control and prescribes the obligation of the provider to provide specific assistance before they are granted to the Commission for the control of state aid which is actually being aided, in order to bring its kind of expertise whether or not it is necessary to provide assistance. All of this, according to the promoter, is not about banning the granting of state aid, but about introducing new rules that must be respected in this area without any disturbances in free competition in the market. In the opinion of the promoter, if these disorders do not occur, there will be incentives for economic development and all of this will allow our citizens to receive... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... State aid. In short, I will say that the real Serbian hosts do not need to be helped, but should be allowed to work in factories and give them back the jobs you took from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22973	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 11, I suggest that Section 3 be deleted. Namely, this is another law imposed on us by the EU. The benefits of this law will certainly not be achieved by Serbian citizens, we will only have damages, or another body that will pay taxpayers, another burden for all of us, another imposition that will not serve anything. The economic crisis is getting bigger. On one side, savings measures are reportedly being introduced, and here we have a completely opposite example, where the formation of a new commission creates additional and unnecessary costs. Why is an additional organ formed? Why are additional costs being incurred? Because that is what the EU says, whether it suits us or not. That's what Europe says, and our government accepts. The Commission will have five members, of which the competent ministries propose four members and the fifth propose a competition protection commission. This solution is extremely bad because it does not provide sufficient independence for the commission from the executive authority. To be precise, the government will control itself. What do we get by that? We'll get what we've got today -- malfeasance, corruption, theft, etc. By introducing a commission, nothing will change significantly. The funds will again be allocated to companies and companies whose directors are politically alike. They'll get as much as they want, as much as they need. What's worse and more generally known, the funds will go into private pockets, not the commission to stop it. Not a member of the Commission proposed by the Ministry to speak and to prevent the abuse of other ministries, i.e. Government. Not a crow's eyes to take out. The formation of this commission is completely unnecessary, too high, just an extra cost to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22975	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22976	I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 11 of Section 5. You are saying that the applicant may withdraw the application before the decision is taken by the Commission, as well as that the applicant is responsible for the truthfulness and accuracy of the information referred to in the application and that the Commission is not responsible for the decision taken unless the data are true, correct or correct. Clearly, the applicant must provide accurate information. It is bound by even many other positive regulations. It must give accurate and correct data under the threat of material and criminal responsibility, so your argument about not accepting the amendment really doesn't look like anything. We've heard frantic data on how many agencies there are in this country, in some ministries, committees, here's the commission. You're, like, advocates of reducing the state administration, but it's just declarative. It's just a dead letter on paper. How is all this financed? Where'd you get the money to fund all this? Money comes from the back of taxpayers and out of debt, therefore, from unfavourable loans. Madam Minister, do you know that one state is not valued for how much it can be owed, but for how much it can be returned? It's clear that no one thinks about it, and it's clear that you're probably not going to repay these loans, and that's why you're absolutely not thinking about it. It seems that this law will serve the most for free distribution of packages before the election, and that some of the provisions of this law will be skillfully hidden. If you don't believe it, see, for example, a member of the 21st law, so you'll understand everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22977	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22978	Dear Vice President, I will speak within those 15 minutes that our parliamentary group has. Dear Vice-President, honourable Madam Minister, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, as we from the NS interpret this law on state aid control I will tell you in the next few minutes. As I'm used to, and I think you're used to, Madam Minister, based on some examples of ordinary life, which the people understand, I'm going to ask you some questions and hope you'll be as kind as you are to answer those questions. Why did I decide to ask you? Because, let me put it this way, I still have in my head what your attitude was at the time when pension increases were being talked about. Okay, the chiefs of political, prime minister, I know how the government works, at least we who were in the ruling coalition by yesterday, but I've remembered human beings like that and I've gotten the impression that in this era of financial crisis, without mercy, in one finance minister these citizens may have someone their own associate and a fighter for justice and justice, even though justice, or justice and justice, as most Serbian citizens understand it, perhaps in a break-up, so I'm going to ask you a few questions. Is state aid intended for the citizens of Serbia and what state aid they can expect if, a few days ago, a gentleman, very smooth, correct and educated, a minister of trade, I ask the law on the protection of competition... It's all connected to this law, because if there was justice, if the citizens weren't being peeled off by the state and public enterprises, maybe we wouldn't have to have this law on state aid control, but the citizens would be in a position, they'd have jobs, good wages, so we'd talk about some higher levels of life. What's this about? It's about a famous increase in the price of gas. I heard in person, and all of Serbia's citizens, I think it was a direct transmission at the time, that the trade minister said he didn't know what the price of gas we're getting from Russia or where we're getting it from. I'd like to ask you if you know. If you know, explain to me and the citizens of Serbia who use gas as energy to heat their houses, and they are about 200,000. Some here have made a great political career and have earned cheap political points (I will not mention what a parliamentary group is, they are not present today) when the price of gas for individual households has increased 60%. You're probably creeping out from number 60, plus or minus; anything to cut or increase 60%, something's wrong. So, in October, the price of gas for the heating of individual households increased 60%. Let me remind you, Madam Minister, when it comes to the city I come from, Cačka, and I'm sure that's the case in Vojvodina, in the secondary gas network, citizens participated in their own funds, and that's up to five or six thousand euros. That's when it was explained on a number of energy committees... For days there were debates in the assembly, and Chank's groups and groups of others, there were threats and the gas mafia was mentioned, that the government would fall and that money would be returned to the citizens, that we do not currently know what it was about and – "the shaking of the mountains, the mouse was born". Now the bills are coming to the citizens. You pay this much money for July, and the rest, that 60%, will arrive in October. What's my question? When it was given a parameter that 1,000 cc's of gas imported into our country was $450, the rate of the dollar was 62 dinars. Given the growth in the rate of dollars, which is now about 70, and the information I have, which is that the Minister of Trade didn't know or didn't want to check that now that 1,000 cc's of gas is $290 (and already four months), so we know the formula at which the prices of oil derivatives (gas, diesels) are increasing, plus these excises that you've doubled twice, so we have the most expensive gasoline in Europe. It may be clear or unclear to us, as much as you don't like it, but there is a formula. Is there a formula when determining the price of gas for households? You know, citizens, so to speak, are "attracted" to invest well five-six thousand euros and there is a monopoly, a state-owned company called "Srbigas", which I can freely say to citizens, I don't think I'm familiar with any too strong words, robbery. So, I'm saying 1,000 cc's of gas entering our country costs $290. This means that during the previous four months, citizens not only had to be reduced gas prices, but they needed their money back, because someone is making extra profit, and I note that it is a state-owned public enterprise. It's a company owned by the citizens of this country. You're here right now, don't take it personally, exponent of the state. Two months ago I asked it as a parliamentary question, so I ask you here, in front of the honorable home and citizens of Serbia who are looking at this, to remind the government on Thursday of the Minister of Energy, whether they should answer this question that I am asking on behalf of many Serbian citizens, that we who invested in this at 5,000-6,000 euros know... I must tell you that those who talk a lot about Vojvodina today are not; I expected the president, because she's from the Forest and there's a lot of gassed; and the vice president is from Vojvodina, I expect her to come out for a pay phone or support me in what I'm saying. In Vojvodina, 170,000 households heat up on gas and the state of Serbia, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia, are responsible for the robbery, because it has an extra profit. Where did "Serbiagasu" money come from for such wages? Where do they get money to pay professional clubs and players from America for 10,000, 20,000 euros a month? This is not paid by the director or the board of directors, but by the citizens of Serbia. If you took that price down, how much State aid would that be for the citizens? In Article 4 of the Law that you are proposing today, where you write that state aid is allowed, point 2) is said – which is assigned to eliminate the damage caused by natural disasters or other emergency situations. When the city (somewhere they say a fight) destroyed the peasants' agriculture, when it destroyed their efforts, sweat and blood that they invested over several months, especially in the Valjev area, several days ago in the Chapanese region, on the right coast of West Morava from Athens to the Kings, you should have seen what these people look like in their fields that look like battlefields... It's ruined. They have not yet been able to think about how these products will be sold to, to whom they will be able to sell, whether they will be able to extract what they have invested; it is practically invested by rich people, by the hosts, who in some way have committed themselves to, following this inflation and rising energy prices, for their tractors, for their agricultural machinery, and yet have succeeded, these are valuable and working people (both in Vojvodina and other parts of the country) to grow four-five hectares of vegetables and fruit. We who have been in politics for years say: The village has fed us. How do we get back to the village? What do you mean by Article 2? What exactly are you going to do? I'm waiting for an answer. What are you going to do to help these people? At this moment I remember the Chacan region, I'm talking about villages on the right coast of West Morava, not talking about Serbia. Why am I asking you this? Madam Minister, for nine years I've been a national MP, every year there was a notebook with the budget -- transfer funds laws, so every municipality knew how much it gets, I don't know if that word is adequate for what I want to say, from what was taken in Belgrade and from the central government should be returned, say, to the town of Cacca. We don't even know those parameters. People would kind of adjust. We are waiting for the government's session, the mayors say, representatives of the municipalities, desperate people, because they see the budget being filled. It's not as good as it is in Chačka. In Cacak, there are exceptional opportunities, but in some smaller municipalities there are no 50% budgeting, and those in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think you are the most responsible for this as finance minister, have no answer. What are these parameters? For a time, it was said that out of those 40 billion 15 billion would come down, and 25 billion to return to municipalities and cities, and now there is no recommendation. You know, all these local budgets, and cities and municipalities, as far as I know, are being made according to projections given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You had a rebalance a month and a half ago, and then we said he was hollow. After 20 days, it was seen that “he does not drink water. ” What do these cities do now? I remind you again of these villages in West Morava and the lives of ordinary people. Maybe the rebalancing community would allocate extra resources, maybe cut off some investment. What do we do? That's the time. It's possible we can postpone some years of investment, but it needs to help people who are sick. At this point, they won't have to eat, they'll eat, let alone make food for someone else. To see the orchards and the fields, it was destroyed for the next five years. Whoever didn't have the money to secure it, he's poor for the next five years. So that's how I understood this state aid. I see that on a local level, cities and municipalities, and they do it, and my town of Chachak is fighting as hard as it can... What do we expect from you? Minimumly, to hold a session of the government and to say which are the parameters, so that meetings of city and municipality assemblies can be scheduled and budget rebalanced, that some investments are reduced, and that, as in the particular case I am telling you, they help people. When it comes to public enterprises, since I've mentioned them several times, we had some shows and accusations last night, and that's what it's been for years, no one can remember to file any criminal charges, so let's find out if anyone's guilty. If he's not guilty, it means he's innocent, and if he's innocent, someone answers, someone who places such news and distracts the citizens about the key thing, why didn't we have a discussion here in the Assembly about an agreement with the International Monetary Fund? At the previous session or at one of the last sessions, we had the agenda (I think one of your laws was among those 65, Madam Minister) where the $900,000 contracts were ratified. How can three billion euros be owed, not Serbian citizens, but those who are not yet born Serbian citizens, and we do not have a debate here? You have a majority; of course that agreement with the IMF would have been adopted. Then what's the reason why it doesn't come to the Assembly for ratification, to talk a little bit, to see where three billion euros are going? When I told you public enterprises, I asked you personally, as finance minister, to check if the oil industry of Serbia has paid one private television 600,000 euros these days. I saw that paper. Let them do the work of those people who are in charge of it. Do you have any knowledge of that? What about the NIS final account? Is it 100 million euros (it's not 100 kilos of corn, one sack, then there-there) in a minus or in a plus? Can you give us an answer, and on that basis we'd see if this law of yours was applicable? Since 2000, by my modest estimate, we have received hundreds and hundreds of laws, without doubting at all the good intentions of those who wrote them; I guess the laws are passed in order for citizens to benefit from it, but they either do not apply themselves or have been a condition for some European integration, and what does the people have to do with it? Let's keep the opposition quiet here, so we don't answer any more amendments. They say that in Slovenia or Slovakia, at the time they were to be admitted to the EU, I am not sure, they voted on 500 laws in the day. As for New Serbia, we are prepared to do so, we will not submit any amendments. What is your guarantee that on Monday, on Tuesday, one, a hundred, thousand Serbian citizens will feel some benefit and improvement from the laws you propose? Secondly, when it comes to this Commission of State Aid Control, relating to the troubled villages on the right coast of West Morava, I see that in this commission there is a representative of G 17 plus (where is the money, there is also a representative of G 17 plus, necessarily someone has to be), but I don't see anyone from the Ministry of Agriculture. It's just amazing. We have to remember this Winston Churchill, who was a great politician and who always spoke – when you won't do something, you make a commission and a quiet port. I expect you, because I believe in you as an expert and a man, to rise above party functions, divisions and sophistication, how this government (and how the government has shown citizens also in the recent local elections in three municipalities), and to answer these questions. If I'm satisfied, I'll keep my mouth shut in advance. If I'm not satisfied, I'll ask for a replica to ask you. My first question is, may I remind you, do you as finance minister know what the price of gas is? The state-owned company deals with gas imports, and the consequences of the company's work, i.e. the state or the government of the Republic of Serbia, have Serbian citizens. I repeat, when the price of gas went up $450 was 1,000, and now it's 290, why is there no reaction? That would help the citizens the most, to free them from certain duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22979	The 11th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Jorvanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22980	Article 11 defines the responsibility of the applicant of the application for the truthfulness and regularity, i.e. the accuracy of the information referred to in the application. So for the state aid that someone will receive from the budget or for a reduced inflow in the budget, because someone will have any kind of privilege, it is enough that the applicant says he will be responsible for the truthfulness and correctness, or accuracy of the data. In the experience of these nine years, when all the laws that involved responsibility were similarly defined, which did not end in a penalty for irresponsibility or abuse, on behalf of the Prosperity Club, Serbia, SNS, I asked for a sentence to be added: "provided by a document or a copy of a document issued by an authorised authority and signed by an authorised person, which contains the information listed in the application. “ From the privatisation process, where it was easy to say ‘guarantee’, and then hide buildings, machines, thousands of squares in the privatisation prospectus, in the Public Procurement Act, where it was also guaranteed regularity and accuracy, and then found that there are abuses, I felt that it was really not for the government to do harm, but it was for her to get a document proving the correctness of the data being presented. In an explanation for the refusal of amendments, I get a reply from the Government, which comes down to the following: the application form, where the elements will be contained to fill them in the application form, will contain as a mandatory element a statement of truthfulness and regularity. The government naively believes that this will provide the necessary security regarding the truthfulness and regularity, i.e. the accuracy of the information given in the application. I ask you, gentlemen of the government, and you would probably ask every shrewd citizen, does the state, when it is to exercise some right, seek proof that he paid taxes or says – no, Mr. Peter Petrovic, give me a statement of the truth and accuracy of the information that you paid the tax? Does this look funny? Not proof that someone paid their taxes, but a statement that they did. Does the state, when it comes to the law prescribed the right to treatment, to compensation from health and pension insurance, say – give me a statement guaranteeing that your medical condition is such or requesting medical documentation signed by authorised persons and authorized bodies, and even require the personal presence of people who are in the most difficult health condition to, for example, be. The commission has convinced that these people deserve to receive a cure under more favourable conditions, i.e. the benefited price, or, God forbid, to exercise the right, really very difficult to achieve, on pension, disability or any other. For everything the state has given, it requires it to be documented with evidence signed by authorised authorities and issued by competent authorities. But in this case, in the case of privatisation, in the case of public procurement, it is sufficient to state that the data is correct and correct! Not a single argument, not a single sentence, and let the citizens evaluate how theirs and my state behaves and whose hand it goes to by prescribing these rules of conduct.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22981	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22982	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on State Aid Control to delete in Article 12, paragraph 3. The government didn't accept the amendment. The point of the amendment is to show and prove that commissions are unnecessary. Looking through these laws that are now on the agenda, a dozen commissions, agencies and councils are set up, all to employ a certain number of people on the burden of the budget. If we take that there are ministries and that there is a regulation here which actions are to be carried out by the Ministry: receiving applications and other information on state aid and processing them, preparing the Commission's decision, keeping track of state aid, preparing a proposal for an annual report, working with other state institutions, audit houses, budget inspection, etc., what should the commission do? In these circumstances, the commission's work is immaterial. Since I don't support the commission, I'd like to ask a specific question to the government and get an answer. It refers to the Ministry of Agriculture, which granted grants three or four years ago for the agricultural cooperative Ari Nova from Aryl for the construction of an apple-storage cooler, which is a sum of 400,000 euros, or 35,000. The fridge is made with a lot of problems, it doesn't work, and now the state institutions control what was done. Initial cooperatives, who guaranteed investment and bank loans, were forced to leave the cooperative, some voluntarily, and some had to because they were deceived. Then new cooperatives appear, with a share of 1,000 dinars, who probably want to achieve material benefits in some way and gain capital. I'd like to know if the Ministry of Agriculture has gone through and kept an eye on how the state funds are being spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22983	Thank you. The title above Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Mr Popovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment that reads: "The title above Article 13 is deleted. “ Article 13 speaks of the previous control procedure carried out by a committee trained in Article 6. Proposal for a law on state aid control. The government’s explanation for this article states: “This article first prescribes a procedure to determine whether the application applies at all to state aid or not, and to notify the applicant if it does not refer to State aid. It is therefore most certain that when a potential state aid provider is not sure whether the planned allocation of funds has State aid status to submit its application to the Commission and wait with the allocation until the commission makes the appropriate decision. “ If the Commission makes a decision on the compliance or non-compliance of the application for State aid, what further happens with the implementation of the application, provided that the Commission has made a decision on compliance? This proposal does not state, in the sense that some of the sublaws or laws resulting from this proposal of the law, are regulated by the scope and time limits for granting the aid sought. By proposing and adopting these laws, seek to draw citizens' attention from unfulfilled pre-election promises. I will remind some of them: the employment of 200,000 people, the crime charge, 1,000 euros of free shares, 700,000 euros of Fiatov investments in the flag, defence of Resolution 1244 on Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22985	The 13th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Branko Ljiljak. The government has accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, for the SRS, this law is groundless, aimless and dysfunctional and we suggest that it withdraws as such from the procedure. Why is he aimless? Because the draft law does not lay down the reasons for the adoption of this law. What are those reasons? They must be based on the rules of the World Trade Organisation, EU rules and Serbian legislation. In what domain? In the domain of state aid. The legislator had to make it clear what state aid was, that it was true that qualifications and types of state aid, a way to grant and help, and on the other hand, all other elements that matter for that aid, and ultimately sanctions. This is one of the few laws that has no sanctions for abuses, for violations, for business crimes, and possibly criminal acts. What the legislator was supposed to do, and he didn't, is to define the issue of state aid through a national strategy on how and conditions to grant state aid. This national strategy must identify everything that is important for state aid. There's no national strategy. You missed the theme here. You even threw in some things that don't belong here. What are the forms of state aid you mentioned here that don't belong here? These are social benefits, which by their own nature, by the rules of the World Trade Organisation, and by EU rules are not state aid and as such are not allowed in or out, there is no reason. On the other hand, the issue of subsidies, especially subsidies in the area of agriculture, does not need to be thrown out. It is a form of state aid even under EU rules, but there is no control, as it does not violate a free economic match. So, only in conditions where the free market is being violated must we exercise control. Who's in control? An independent state body. This is the European Commission in the European Union. In our case, you've inaugurated a state aid control committee. Unnecessarily. The special thing you had to do here, and you didn't process it, is the way it was assigned. What are the priorities of the state, and for what purposes will we single out state resources? What are the priorities? Did one letter say that here? It's not. On the other hand, you didn't say how to disrupt the free market. What are these parameters? What are these criteria? What are the conditions of market distortion? That's when it's about control, and that's when the state's body reacts. He must be independent. It can't be a state body, in this case a state aid control committee, composed of those factors, in this case it's mostly the ministries, four representatives of the ministries... The ministries and state officials in the ministries are leading global policy in the areas of economy, economy, etc. After that, real analysis, making solutions, etc. And then they're in control. How do they control it? Who's gonna control Young Dinkic? Someone from his ministry? No, that's very funny. There's only one independent organ. The proposal of the SRS is that it be a committee, a committee of the Assembly. The congregation has this ingenuity. Article 98. The constitution says the Assembly has a control function over the work of the executive authority and it had to be incorporated and incorporated into this law. You didn't do it. On the other hand, for agriculture and fishing you have such formulas that even the government had to make an amendment. Now I'm going to read those formulas, they really don't make sense. It's amazing that you missed the subject in the bill and in the subsequent amendment. You'll allow me, I'll just take one minute to read it. In the draft law, paragraph 2, you say: "The provisions of this law do not apply to primary agricultural production and fisheries. “ In the amendment to the Government, you amend the provision in Article 1(2) and say: “The provisions of this law do not apply to agricultural products and fishery products. “ What does that have to do with anything? What does this have to do with state aid and state aid control? Absolutely no connection. You had to say what state aid is and whether state aid in the area of agriculture is classic state aid or not. What do products have to do with anything? What does fishing and fishery products have to do with state aid and state aid control? You've absolutely missed the subject. In addition, the definition of state aid you've done here doesn't match the logical trail of everything you've stated in the law. Even a better solution and a definition of state aid was given by the state commission, which began working in 2004, in its analysis and report adopted by the government. Just because you didn't make the right definition of state aid, you didn't say what the state would invest in, which are the priorities of the state in investing, everything else was further missed. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22987	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 13. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marina Ragush submitted to the title above Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. The government has accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Milovan Radovanovic, submitted the title above Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. The government has accepted this amendment. The title above Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government has accepted this amendment. The government has submitted the title above Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. The government has accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the title above Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the title above Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. You have a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how harmful this law is and how much damage it can do to the state of Serbia, we will have the opportunity to see. First of all, I'm going to look back at some things you've already had a chance to hear about, which is an agreement with the IMF in March of this year. We, under the law on the availability of information, have asked the Government to deliver this agreement to us to see what it says in the agreement with the IMF, to which our state is bound when it is to "get" three billion. You realize there's nothing coming from the IMF, that they're international lenders who are completely destroying and devastationing the country. The best way to see it is through the cities of Serbia – there is an exposure on every corner, like leeches, that last church that our citizens have slowly sucked out, until they completely destroy us. On our request to get information on the agreement, what does it say... Because we have reason to believe that our government has accepted that in return for three billion sales of Telecom, it privatises "Nikola Tesla", Galenika and 50% of EPS. Then what's left of this country? So to speak, nothing more. We will be completely in the power of the tycoon, the IMF and the World Bank. They will essentially manage this country. On our request to deliver an agreement, the government secretary provided a reply, he says, "By your request for access to information of public importance, which refers to the delivery of the current agreement of the Republic of Serbia with the International Monetary Fund and the arrangement of March of this year, we inform you that we do not have requested documents." Is this possible, my people? What are you talking about here? Why do you deceive Serbian citizens? Madam Minister, I'm asking you a question. Who's talking about a deal with the IMF? Do you have papers or not? If you do, why are you hiding them? What's in those papers? Is this information correct? One is a lie: either it's a lie that you don't have papers or it's a lie that you've reached an agreement. He can't do both. You know how the agreement is achieved – not on the honorable word, but on the basis of solid, precise, specific items, which mean how the IMF funds will be withdrawn. You won't get a single euro, they know in whose hands they should give that money. That's why they're looking to provide themselves in every possible way and they'll probably give you a piece by piece when you meet these conditions that they set for you. This may not be in the papers, but we will have the opportunity to see it in practice – when the government announces that it will be privatized by Telecom, then you will get one tranche. You may not get a penny from the IMF, but they will allow you to privatise Telecom, and they will determine who will buy it and in any way, as they have done in the last ten years, so we have come into the situation that the property we have available is 70% of the property of which was worth between 25 billion and 30 billion euros, sold for only 2.7 billion euros, something like 10%. That's what's gonna happen to us with this. When you spend it, a little of that Telecom, then it'll be next to Nicole Tesla Airport, maybe not in this order, then Galenika, then 50% of EPS, and you can close the tarab. Then from this government of ours, "the government of joy", will come that quiet anger or nightmare, in which the citizens of Serbia will find themselves because they will not know how they will survive, and then you will be in a situation to face the so-called. Argentine syndrome. Now the citizens began to cut the pieces of their bodies in protest, but, of course, as things stand, a hot autumn approaches, and it wasn't me in your skin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22989	Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Dušanka Plecevic and Zoran Antić submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vuković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Obradovic Radojko wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22990	I have only a request, under Rule 27, that in the end, since there are no amendments to this law anymore, you tell us how much time is left, since the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that unites the debate have been applied to these three points, so that we know about tomorrow's debate. Otherwise, to take ten seconds at this point, I am surprised by this letter read by Mr. Todorovic, for the simple reason that Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, is the signator of an agreement with the International Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22991	The authorised representative has full time, you have ten minutes left. A total of 538 minutes left. Divide that by six. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22992	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, thank you all for your discussions, thank you for your helpful suggestions, thank you for your hard work and good intentions, even when the government has not adopted the amendments, I will explain later why. I don't want to thank you for being angry, but I definitely want to be funny. We sometimes need her as a cure, maybe more than just some legal cure. When we talk about humor, I mean first of all the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party. Of the 120 amendments almost 80 or 79, I have tried to count everything, there is one single explanation, and the amendments are given in the following form: from Article 6 to Article 24 each new amendment deletes the name of a member or member in general, or the position of a member or within the position of a specific point. It's really very funny. The explanation is this: "Serbian Radical Party considers the current situation to be a general economic crisis," therefore, the general government did not challenge it, which I like, "the founding of another state body such as the State Aid Control Commission is a non-road and cost-effective move by the Serbian government. “ My answer will be brief, as will your amendments. About how much a government is a consumer doesn't speak either the number of commissions or the number of ministers, and we both know that very well, and that's a world experience. About how much one government spends best says the participation of public spending in social product. In this year, only one year, the government will reduce public spending by more than two percentage points. Also, during the performances of individual MPs, there were plenty of speeches about definitions, standards and methodologies. That's really not what I'd like to argue about. I stand by the sentence that public aid is truly textbookly defined. It represents all types of State aid, including export incentives, including investment incentives and subsidies, and tax exemptions. So she's a very general term. No matter how important export incentives are, there are other reasons why state aid should be granted, for example, productivity growth or competitiveness etc. Public aid is textbookly defined and constitutes a general concept. Mr. Obradovic, by his amendment, wanted to essentially extend the subject matter of this law. I understand good intentions, but there's a difference between us in concept. This law is basically a law that focuses only on state aid control. There is a precise distinction between jurisdiction and responsibility: there is someone who is responsible for granting state aid, and these are individual ministries or agencies; there is someone who is responsible for the control, and it is a commission; there is someone who is responsible to collect that state aid unless it is given in the right way, and it is a budgetary inspection. As far as the annual state aid report is concerned, it is on the finance ministry's website. Enter the Ministry of Finance website, there are "documents" options, so there are "reports" options, and there are two reports available to all, including parliament. Although there was no law, reports are available on the Ministry of Finance's website for two years, and by half of July 2009, by half this year, a 2008 report will be available on the Ministry of Finance's website. I am very sorry that Ambassador Nenad Popovic is not here today. He's put a lot of effort into the amendments. Again, the difference is in concepts, but he pointed out in the case of his amendments that he was not against the commission, unlike the SRS. Not only this commission, he suggests introducing two more new commissions, in a desire to control and grant assistance. Since the MP is not present, I would no longer be lenient about it. SRS MP Mijaljević speaks of a large number of amendments essentially resulting from a very bad law. I think vice versa, I think the large number of amendments you've given is probably the result of your wit and desire to discuss this extremely important law takes a long time. In doing so, I'm not really offended, I don't know if it was your intention, when you said the law had anything to do with common sense. As a serious woman, as you said, I read what is written; Article 10, which is covered by your amendment, speaks of a professional part of the work carried out by the Ministry of Finance and absolutely has nothing to do with what you said in that amendment. Also, you're complaining about the great expenditures of the state. You're talking about how the state spends a lot of money and the consumer is, as you say, asking the state to hire, to build factories. If there's nothing the state should do, it's to build factories. It can help in a limited period of time, just like this law requires. Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic insists on evidence when reporting for state aid. It can't all fit into the law, the idea of this law is to be brief and clear, but that's why there's a sublegal act or a form of that application, where exactly what you're asking for is to be stated in the law. The most controversy has led to the formation of a commission that has five members, with a cost aspect, and a statement that the funds for the work of the commission will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's five people. Everywhere in the world, I know that many don't like the word, there are commissions, and there are no fewer; Slovenia has a commission of seven members, nine or twelve, is always an odd number. Given the size of state aid, the size of the country and that we are an undeveloped country and that probably the scope of the state aid itself can be greater, five members are really not a large number. In doing so, this commission really needs to carry out a very responsible task. We need more control and this is a law that will allow for greater control. You'll be like parliament, and all of you, you'll always have annual reports. Greater control, even when it's in turn, at first, always means less costs. There, that's a benefit for the citizens of Serbia. There were a lot of questions and controversy that really didn't apply to this law. This state aid control law applies to legal entities and entrepreneurs. It does not apply to individuals and to agriculture. That doesn't mean the state doesn't care about agriculture. Simply, this law does not regulate the aid given to agriculture. And it is not true that the extent of state aid when it comes to agriculture is reduced. Budgets have been cut, but their own funds have not been reduced. Therefore, agricultural expenditure this year will be the same as before. I really think this is a very important law; it's the first time that a control system is in place; that this control will definitely, as well as any one, mean less costs; that we've understood the earlier system quite simply and inconsistencies. When it comes to state aid, it was always meant only by subsidies and central government, let's say the Republic budget and possibly local self-government. Now this law regulates what the Development Fund is doing, what the Guarantee Fund, Alfie, SIEPA, etc. does. and treat not only subsidies, but also loans given under more favourable conditions, and guarantees, and tax release, exemption, and export incentives and investment incentives. So this is a comprehensive law, which will show us to what extent this state helps economic actors, legal persons and entrepreneurs. As for questions that are not subject to this law (most commonly asked by Mr Markicevic), I answered in part. This law does not regulate the assistance that is intended for citizens. It's a law for legal persons and entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, peasants are not the subject of that law. I didn't hear that the oil industry of Serbia funded some television or I don't know what kind of station. What I can see is that today the oil industry of Serbia, whether it likes it or not, is no longer owned by the majority of the state of the Republic of Serbia. So I'm counting on it to be a joint decision. Do I know what the price of gas is? I must say, at one of Mr. Bajatovic's performances, I heard that he intends to propose an increase in the price of gas. I know that, as well as the price of other oil derivatives, there is a formula, but here for gas, I admit, I haven't mastered enough. The formula for calculating the selling price of gasoline, the elevator is very simple: it is aligned with the price change on the world market for oil and course, over a period of two weeks. The formula here is more complicated. I know the current selling price of gas is a real rate of 51 or 52 dinars for a dollar and some purchase prices of over $500, that it is now a purchase price lower, but that the dinar has weakened according to the dollar. I know that, for example, the price of 34 dinars per metre of cubic gas is a selling price for households, that it's lower by one to five dinars for the economy, and I know that it hasn't come to the government for decision-making yet. The programme with the International Monetary Fund has been announced, an agreement, as you say, Mr. Todorovic, on the IMF website. Not only on that site, but also on the National Bank of Serbia website. It's a standard standby arrangement. You can see what kind of standby arrangements were in the past for Serbia and what they are now like. So he's been published and he has no secrets. Mr Markicevic is always asking me the same question, regarding parliament's role in approving NBS's duties against the IMF. Once again, I have only one answer, which I have already offered to Mr Markicevic several times, but he is obviously not satisfied. I am saying that you, as Parliament and MPs, always approve of those loans that are related to public spending, directly or indirectly. This loan, however big, has nothing to do with public spending. He supports reserves, Serbia's foreign reserves, and as such should not be discussed in parliament. So much for me, I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22993	I'm not quite sure if I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I will give my word to Mr Todorovic within the time of the SRS Group, and the others, but within the time you have for the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22994	I'll accept this, this isn't the first time you've denied us the rights we have under the Rules of Procedure because your free judgment is quite stretching, but let me get to the point. Madam Minister, first of all, I have to tell you that you need to take care of one thing, that there are three branches of government - judicial, legislative and executive, which should be controlled by one another. You are currently in one of these branches, a legislative one, which aims and whose purpose is to control, above all, executive authorities. Mrs Dragutinović, you would have to make sure that you have no right to judge MPs, you have no right. You can speak professionally whether it is good, it is not, etc., but you have no right to judge MPs, unlike MPs who have the right to judge ministers, government etc. But, well, I didn't get very angry. As to whether something is good or not, and I am telling you on the basis of what you said that the amendments of the SRS MPs are mostly "expect", believe me, there is no other way to improve the law. Here, just because of the citizens of Serbia, this law has 25 members; you have accepted about ten amendments, as I recall, proposed by MPs and about nine proposed by the government. On 25 members of the 19 amendments, it's about 76%. What does that tell you? What kind of bill did you go out with? And you say the amendments aren't good?- I'm sorry. Please don't. You assure us this law will allow for control. Mrs Dragutinovic, this people have been deluded for nine years. Do you know when I might believe it? When the first final bill arrives. Do you know, Mrs Dragutinovic, that since 2001 there has been no final accounts? You know what the penalty is for a cobbler, not to tell the firm, what's the penalty if he doesn't have a final bill? Well, well, Mrs. Dragutinović, what are you going to do with it? How do you have, not to say some hard word, but to use the word "right" to ask for something from the citizens without you at the same time fulfilling your obligations? Who gives you the right not to account for the citizens of Serbia? Where are the final accounts? Let's see how that money was spent. That's why I sat in this back row, because I know I'm inspired by this exposure of yours, so I knew it would be a bit stronger. Mrs Dragutinovic, as far as the IMF is concerned, I really don't understand you. The government secretary here tells me he doesn't have those papers from March of the month. Do you believe that there is a possibility of getting three billion without having any documents, but rather standard documents on the government site, which speak of the conditions on which loans are granted? Most of you probably took a car out on a lease, from ten, so it doesn't matter how many thousands of euros. Did you see how many of those contracts contain members, obligations? You don't want to-not, but if you don't pay the three wars, what you've leased goes away, and Mrs Dragutinovic wants to convince us that the IMF will give us three billion to support our budget reserves, which, by the way, are never bigger, at least according to the NBS governor's statements. But there's really no way a man can catch you here, only to gather you together and tell you who's talking. You know the problems you've had with Mladjan Dinkic and some other ministers. You say one thing, they deny it. I don't know how that ends up in the government. Mrs Dragutinovic, not only have you not convinced me and the MPs of the SRS, I'm sure you haven't convinced the citizens of Serbia either. The first time you make the bills, maybe we'll believe it. But here's something to think about, since your ministry will be one of those who are in charge of this commission, even from your ministry should be the president of that commission, as far as I've seen in the law -- I suggest you put together this commission, I think it would be appropriate. I'm sorry to have to propose more candidates, but there are so many, so I wanted to pick out ten of those who participated directly in the privatisation of the state, or on the side of those who sold or on the side of those who bought. I have two reserves just in case, and you post this and you'll see the citizens' reaction. For example: Mladjan Dinkić, Bozidar Djelic, Nemanja Kolesar, Bojan Kristo, Vuk Hamović, Miroslav Miskovic, Dragan Djilas, Milan Beko, Goran Novakovic, Bagzi and Chume reserves. However, a high school is being sought, but they may have ended up now after "the bologna", since they had time and it's going now. "Bologna" is the possibility that those who have not done the job in time will now finish the job. Then you will get the best and most professional commission, which guarantees that everything will be under control and that the citizens will be sure that no single dinar will go away in vain. Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for giving me the opportunity to bring this up too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22995	Mrs. Diana Dragutinović. Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22996	Mr. Todorovic, I don't really know what I've caused your bile debate, but I'd like to remind you, and there are notes, so we can check together, so I don't judge the MPs. Students, yes, MPs don't. I didn't say the amendments weren't good. I said they were funny. What I said was I don't agree with your amendments. I guess I'm allowed that. You'll allow me, too, to say a few sentences when it comes to final accounts. As I recall, the final accounts were delivered in late 2002 for 2000 and 2001. The Law on the State Auditing Institution was passed in November 2005, and the State Auditing Institution was formed in 2007 and that September. So only the final bill for 2007 could have been made with the auditor's report. All final account laws from 2002 to 2006 are in the National Assembly, you have an insight, of course, without an auditor's report, such as all the final accounts before 2000. Then you were satisfied with those final accounts. You also know that Parliament is deciding to hire an auditor until the establishment of the supreme audit institution. So you could have decided to hire an auditor. We know when the law was passed, we know when the final account could be brought with the opinion of the auditors, and we also know that all the final accounts, without the auditor's report, were not formed by the State Auditory Institution, in parliament. Mr. Todorovic, you know very well how the state money was spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22997	The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22998	Mrs Dragutinović, a very short question. You often mention state aid control and say there will be dedicated control of the funds spent. This commission, if you've copied a European Commission that controls state aid within the EU, has no authority. You haven't even incorporated those powers into the law. The budget system law has given clear authority to the budgetary inspection to control the dedicated spending of state resources and only the budgetary commission has that authority. This committee doesn't have it. It only acts when an economic match is broken and it assesses the character of those funds, whether or not an economic match has been violated. In law, you have not said a single letter in any way when an economic match is disrupted, which are essential elements and criteria when there is a breach of the economic game. That's when the commission works. There's no unintended use of funds. There's nothing in the law. There is no such thing in the EU or in WTO rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u22999	You know everything can't stand in the law. Why are there sublaws, for example?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23000	Obviously, the essence of this commission is not understood. Whoever wrote this bill didn't understand the essence of this commission. Take EU rules on the work of the European Commission for aid control and you will understand. If anything is regulated by law, then the jurisdiction of an institution that exercises control is regulated. You don't have it here in this law. You have the Budget System Act. The budget committee shall monitor the dedicated use of funds under the Budgetary System Act. I can't do two commissions, I can't do two state institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23001	Every state aid has to be reported. That's what this law is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23002	The word is Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23003	Dear President, dear Madam Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, it is difficult for me to say this, it may be an insult to you, Madam Minister, but from this moment on, I will requalify you from economic experts, experts, if you are not angry, in a very skilled politician. Here's why: For the second time in the last few months, you've honored me to ask you something that's not on the agenda. Turns out I missed out on the subject, that as a MP, I don't know what's on the agenda. But you should ask yourself, as one of the most important ministers in the government. You know, when Lazar Pachu was the finance minister of the Kingdom of Serbia, he knew what the finance minister was, he also knew how to say to King Peter -- he can't. And you have to say to someone "can't," but as a minister, you say "can" to those who don't need it, which is G17. So, you need to stop putting up with their blackmail and go out to the people, so the people will tell you whether Markicevic talked about the real issue or not. That's one. Two, it's not my fault there's no law here regarding the lives of ordinary citizens. How do they live? It's hard for me to tell you, you know I'm a gentleman, we've talked in two and three, and in four, and I won't abuse it, but I need to tell you what your citizens are telling you, so don't help us anymore, as God please. Don't raise any more prices, those prices that the state is asking for; you're voting for those prices in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Don't increase our contributions, our taxes, our taxes, our excise duties. We don't need your help. We'll find our own way and live. We've lived under the Turks, we'll live under you. You're talking about state aid. I tell you what the citizens tell you – stop helping us more. Do you think they say that out of joy? No, it's the regency. People don't know what to do. You say to the dead the cold to me, well, the farmers are not covered by this law. That's why I was talking, because they didn't. Do you know what the situation in agriculture is like? Two bags of fertilizer, Madam Minister, ar of the Moravian land. I'm talking about unhappy people who don't know where they're going or what. Imagine, people who have land have nothing to feed on! You understand? Well done to the shooters, radar station in Uzica and 47 rockets fired, all of them, but they're left alone and they're gonna have to buy bread. You're saying they're not covered by this law. Of course, the peasant will serve the army, he's the first to recruit, send-offs, we've all heard from the Secretary of Defense that it has increased to 98%... He's our peasant, he loves his country, he loves his government, he loves his chest and he's ready to defend it. But when that farmer needs something, some help, you say it's not meant by this law. What is the law for peasants? Do you think... I quote nicely what you wrote in article 4. in second paragraph – elementary accidents. Are you saying that the city... Do you know how that corn is caressed by our peasants? As children, they grow him and wait for him, and potatoes and all that spray, watering and fighting the martyrs and still haven't been able to think about how they're going to sell it. But let's produce, get used to people having full barns, so we'll be easy. They won't spill. They'll feed the poor girl. I know that. Those are good people, and you say the dead, the cold ones, they are not covered. I'm asking you, is the city a natural disaster or is it a regular occurrence and it breaks every day, that people know what they're going to do? Second, transfer funds. Did you happen to avoid answering my question or deliberately? I repeat, municipalities do not have a projection when the Government of the Republic of Serbia will ambush, it must rebalance in the Assembly, so that those who are fighting somehow, who have local incomes, such as the town of Cačak (you know that, you have that information), that people will schedule a congregation of municipalities where they can rebalance that some funds shift to the layers of the population that are most endangered, is true, because of the economic crisis, but also your mismanagement. Next, since you insist on me asking questions that aren't... Bojan Kristo, Airport, budget inspection, is that a topic for you? When will it come to the MPs? When are we gonna find out about this? Or does it need this heat, since it's 45 degrees in our offices and hallways, to forget about it? Maybe we're forgetting, but believe me, the citizens won't make the next election. I'm sure of it. You mention the IMF. Now you're going to stick to it, I'm going to believe you, I'm not sure about that provision, that the National Assembly should not be asked about the three billion euros this country has owed. Now Mr. Todorovic said the government's secretary general said the paper is not in the government. It's just amazing to me! The man has a document. He said it in public, in direct transmission. And if it wasn't for that, I ask you, who will pay you back? That might come in 20 years. You don't think Mirko Cvetkovic's going to be Prime Minister then, do you? I hope by New Year's Eve it won't be. Who's coming back? People, citizens. It doesn't matter who's in power, whether there's going to be a republic, a monarchy, ask God what's going to happen in 15 or 20 years, but the citizens will return. And those who have not yet been born will return. We who are representatives of the citizens shouldn't hear it here. Wouldn't you feel better as finance minister if you had the support of the entire assembly, the opposition? We from the NS have the largest number of accepted amendments, if you didn't know that. We take them for a few, meaningful ones indeed. We do have a good desire and intention to help this law that you or some other minister are proposing. When we return to our midst, the cities from which we come do not share many of us citizens (with some MPs not to appear in front of citizens) as to whether we are government or opposition; all of us consider us to be influential people, as MPs, and think that we can influence you, even if we are opposition. I'm trying. If you don't recognize honest intentions or good intentions in my presentation, then that's your problem, and for God's sake, and a big problem for all of us in the National Assembly and citizens. As far as the International Monetary Fund is concerned, it is exactly what Mr. Todorovic said. These are your terms. But there is one condition he forgot – to close our eyes on both eyes for Kosovo to enter the World Bank, to so-called The fake state of Kosovo enters the World Bank. I ask as a People's MP is that true? Why didn't I ever get an answer to that question? Why didn't I get the answer to the gas price question? Because the answer is also known because you don't know what's going to happen to the citizens. If I knew about that extra-profit and that difference that is now being charged to citizens at the price of gas, if it were being invested in roads or in helping those people, I wouldn't even ask. I'm asking because you don't know where the money's going. I just said about a private television with a national frequency, now I'm a little more specific, that it got 600,000 euros from NIS, and you're saying that now it's a majority... How do you know when they got help? Maybe they got help before it became a Russian firm. That's not true? You know it's national, then be very specific. Well, that firm is mostly owned, but 49% is owned by the Serbian state. As far as I'm concerned, of these 600,000 euros, 49% of our money is still state, Serbian, Serbian, of Serbia's citizens. Furthermore, I insist on these transfer funds. My impression is that 40 billion, so we're going to cut 15 billion, so 7.5 billion to Belgrade, and then the local sheriff here, Comrade Gilas, is rebelling... That's what I'm telling you, that you in government don't even ask questions. Many of you have good intentions, you're good experts... If you did not expect this, colleagues from the majority who are present, to say one opposition MP, here I will tell you – I trust the good number of your members of the government, that you have good intentions, but you listen to politicians. Don't turn out later -- politicians always get away with it, even though I've translated you into politicians, but those who aren't guilty pay, and you'll be guilty if you don't speak in time. You spoke nicely of pension pensions to pensioners that it's not right, that whoever has 8,000 pensions gets an increase of 800 dinars, and whoever has 80,000 gets 8,000. He gets the whole pension. What did this martyr get? You rebelled against it, and then you shut up. I'm telling you this because of that style and the way you work. The fact that you're going to have a smaller rating (and you already have one) and someone is going to have a bigger one, it doesn't matter; a year, two, three or four, passes the election cycle. What are we going to do with these people, with these citizens? Do you know how many people can't survive? Do you know what that is? Now you say the dead cold ones – the peasants are not covered. That's why I asked, because they're not covered. But the good people listen. We forgot that in seven days, two and a half billion MPCs of Luka Belgrade, it's no longer a topic. Are you interested as finance minister where the two-and-a-half billion are? Isn't that a similar number to what we took from the IMF? So we have that money. The problem, Madam Minister, is that what used to be called socialism, social distribution, it's not just, there's no social justice. You are not the government of social justice, you are the government of injustice towards most Serbian citizens, and you will see it in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23004	You've taken advantage of the time of your parliamentary group. Thank you. Mr. Sladjan Mijaljevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23005	Is this the replica or the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23006	There is no replica, only within the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23007	If there's no replica, then I won't say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23008	All right. Mr. Momo Colakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23009	Dear Presidents, the presidency, the respected minister, representatives of the ministry, honourable MPs, Mr Markicevic, you surprised me twice tonight. For the first time, I didn't want to react to your pawnage and your mention of your pension under State aid. I'd like to explain to you about this. If you consider pensions to be a state aid, then you're making a big mistake. Pensions are an economic category, they are earned, and under the State aid law, pensions cannot be spoken of. Please, I respect and appreciate you, don't mention pensions under the law that treats state aid. The Minister spoke, at the time of the adoption of the Budget and Budget Rebalance Act, of pensions, and I thought we explained that pension was an economic category. With regard to the amendments you submitted at the time, we also explained ourselves. You suggested a linear increase in pensions; we explained that a pensioner who has a pension of 15,000 would have 19,500, based on your proposal of 30%, and that whoever invested more and longer would have a smaller pension if the increase were the way you suggested. In that context, I'd like to ask you to keep in mind what we're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-16-0.u23010	Thank you. There was nothing offensive, Mr Markicevic, there is no basis for replication. You're not misread. There's going to be an opportunity within time tomorrow to give an explanation, but right now there's really no basis for replication. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I thank you for your cooperation and for your participation in the debate. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Dr Nikola Krpić, Milan Lapčević, Vladimir Milentjevic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Mladen Grujic. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on INVESTICION FONDS (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Veroljub Arsic, Vladan Jeremic, Jelena Budimirović, Boris Alexic, Milorad Buha, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanović, Zoran Antic, Zoran Krasić, Dusan Marić, Srboljub Živanovic, Radojko Obradović, Dobrislav Prelic and Jorgvanka Tabaković. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Arsic.
